 Case Number:  21STCV33264    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 8, 2021, Plaintiff Maurice Adams (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Sabine Obaji, James Antonucci (“Antonucci”),
and Does 1-40 for negligence. 
On
October 15, 2021, Sadine Obaji (erroneously sued as Sabine Obaji) filed an
answer and a cross-complaint against Antonucci and Does 1-50 for complete
indemnity, partial indemnity and declaratory relief. On November 12, 2021, Antonucci
filed an answer. 
On
November 18, 2021, Antonucci filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Sabine
Obaji and Moes 1-25 for indemnification, apportionment of fault and declaratory
relief. On December 9, 2021, Sabine Obagi (erroneously sued as Sabine Obaji) (“Obagi”)
filed an answer. 
On
July 7, 2023, Obagi filed an application for determination of good faith settlement. 
On
July 31, 2023, Antonucci filed a motion to contest good faith settlement to be
heard on September 27, 2023. On August 22, 2023, Obagi filed an opposition. On
September 14, 2023, Antonucci filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for October 4, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Obagi
requests that the Court find the settlement with Plaintiff is in good faith. 
Antonucci
requests that the Court deny Obagi's application for good faith settlement determination. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2), states that “a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order. The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis,
terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed
order shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days
of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20
days of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to
contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties
files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the
settlement. . . .” 
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).) 
          In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt), the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
must consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
Obagi
and Plaintiff have agreed to settle for $40,000. 
A.  
Plaintiff’s
total recovery and settlor’s proportionate liability 
According
to Obagi, in September 2019, Plaintiff and Antonucci were involved in a vehicle
accident.  Plaintiff alleged that he suffered
neck and back injuries in this accident and received treatment in the form of
an emergency room visit, chiropractic care and diagnostic testing.  (Motion p. 4.) 
Obagi
states that in April 2020, Plaintiff was involved in another vehicle
accident.  Plaintiff alleged that this
accident aggravated the injuries he suffered in the 2019 accident and led to
additional treatment in the form of orthopedic evaluations which included
recommendations and scheduling for cervical and epidural injections which he
received in October and November of 2020. 
This case settled without litigation. 
(Motion p. 5.) 
On
September 25, 2020, Plaintiff and Obagi were involved in a vehicle accident on
Olympic Boulevard in Los Angeles County. 
Plaintiff alleged he was driving eastbound in the number three lane when
Obagi merged into Plaintiff’s lane of travel and the two vehicles collided.  Plaintiff alleged that this accident aggravated
his injuries from the September 2019 accident and he received additional
orthopedic evaluation and chiropractic treatment.  (Motion p. 5; Gales
Dec. ¶ 3.) 
After
global settlement discussions between counsel, counsel for Antonucci, and Plaintiff
failed, Obagi and Plaintiff reached a settlement. (Gales Dec. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff
has signed a full release of all claims against Obagi and has agreed to file a
dismissal of the complaint against Obagi with prejudice in exchange for $40,000
if the Court finds the settlement to be in good faith. (Gales Dec. ¶¶ 5-3 [sic].) 
Obagi
asserts that Plaintiff’s total medical specials for all three accidents are $51,077.60.  (Motion p. 5.)  However, Obagi does not provide evidence
supporting her assertion about the amount of medical specials and does not state
whether Plaintiff seeks damages for future medical expenses or loss of income. 
Obagi
does not discuss or provide evidence showing the potential liability of Antonucci
or the driver in the April 2020 accident, preventing the Court from considering
“the settlor’s proportionate liability” as required by Tech-Bilt.  UnderTech-Bilt, the Court needs information about Plaintiff’s
total recovery and Obagi’s proportionate liability to decide if a settlement is "in the ballpark."  Obagi has not provided sufficient information
for the Court to evaluate these Tech-Bilt factors. 
B.   Allocation of Settlement 
All
of the settlement funds will be delivered to Plaintiff. 
C.   Financial considerations 
Obagi
has provided no information about her financial situation or available
insurance. 
D.   Collusion or fraud 
“The
settlement was reached without any collusion between the parties thereto and
without any intent to tortuously injure the interests of any other persons,
entities or parties to this action after participating in settlement
negotiations. The settlement was entered into for the sole reason of avoiding
additional, costly and lengthy litigation in order that the settling parties
could buy their peace in this matter.” (Gales
Dec. ¶ 4 [sic].) 
E.   Weighing the Tech-Bilt factors 
Antonucci
has carried his burden of proving that Obagi's application for determination of
good faith settlement contains insufficient evidence to establish that the settlement
is “in the ballpark” for the reasons stated above. The Court denies the
application for good faith settlement and grants the motion to contest good
faith settlement. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
DENIES Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant Sabine Obagi’s application
for good faith settlement determination. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant, Cross-Defendant, and Cross-Complainant James Antonucci’s motion to contest good faith
settlement. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.