 Case Number:  21STCV20037    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  28 


        Having considered the moving papers,
  the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
          On May 27, 2021, Plaintiff Alamtaj
  Khazaee (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Cole Rundnai
  and Does 1-20 motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
          On December 1, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to
  add Defendant Eduardo Garcia (“Garcia”) as Doe 1. 
          On February 8, 2023, Garcia filed an answer. 
          On May 12, 2023, Garcia moved to compel Plaintiff’s
  responses to (1) request for production of documents, (2) special
  interrogatories, and (3) form interrogatories.  Garcia also requested monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  The motions were set for hearing on September
  27, 2023. 
          Trial is currently set for May 15, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
          Garcia requests that the Court compel Plaintiff to serve
  full and complete verified responses to the demand for production of
  documents, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories and award monetary
  sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          A.   Inspection
  demand 
       “Within 30 days after service of a
  demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the party to whom the
  demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it on the
  party making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other parties who
  have appeared in the action, unless on motion of the party making the demand,
  the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the
  party to whom the demand has been directed, the court has extended the time
  for response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
  2031.260, subd. (a).)  
 “If
  a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
  directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall
  apply: 
 “(a)
  The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
  directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
  or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with
  Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this
  waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
  satisfied: 
 “(1)
  The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
  compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and
  2031.280. 
 “(2)
  The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
  inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 “(b)
  The party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
  demand. 
 “(c)
  Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary
  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any
  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,
  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
  unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order compelling a response, the
  court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an
  issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter
  7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this
  sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
  with Section 2023.010). 
 “(d)
  (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional circumstances, the
  court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for
  failure to provide electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged,
  altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good faith operation of
  an electronic information system. 
 “(2)
  This subdivision shall not be construed to alter any obligation to preserve
  discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) 
          B.  
  Interrogatories 
 “Within 30 days after
  service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are
  propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the
  propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has
  shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party
  the court has extended the time for response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260.)  
 “If
  a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
  response, the following rules apply: 
 “(a)
  The party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to
  exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as
  any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on
  the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
  2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on
  its determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
 “(1)
  The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
  compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. 
 “(2)
  The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
  inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 “(b)
  The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling
  response to the interrogatories. 
 “(c)
  The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
  Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
  makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
  unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling answers, the court
  may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
  sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
  (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
  sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
  (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
  2030.290.) 
          C.   Discovery
  sanctions 
          “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that
  one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising
  that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
  incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also impose
  this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the
  misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that
  assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
  of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
  other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
 “Misuses of the discovery
  process include, but are not limited to . . . 
 *
  * *
 “(d) Failing to respond or
  to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
  2023.010, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
 
Top
  of Form
Bottom
  of Form



 On February 8, 2023, Garcia
served requests for production of documents, set one, special interrogatories,
set one, and form interrogatories, set one, on Plaintiff. 
 Responses were due March 28,
2023. Plaintiff failed to provide responses. 
 The
Court grants the motion to compel responses to the request for production of
documents and orders Plaintiff to provide code-compliant verified responses and
to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other
things requested without objections by October 27, 2023. 
 The Court grants the motions to compel responses to
the special and form interrogatories orders Plaintiff to provide code-compliant
verified responses to the interrogatories without objections by October 27,
2023. 
 Garcia requests monetary
sanctions of $3,875.00, apparently for each motion, based on (1) 9.5 hours of attorney
time spent meeting and conferring with Plaintiff and preparing and filing each
motion, at a billable rate of $250 per hour and (2) an additional 6 hours of
attorney time to prepare a reply to any opposition and to prepare for and
attend the hearing. 
 The Court will not award
sanctions based on time spent meeting and conferring. The three motions are
substantially similar, they are unopposed, and they are set to be heard together.
The Court grants sanctions of $1,000 for all motions, based on 4 hours of
attorney’s work. 
CONCLUSION 
 The Court GRANTS Defendant
Eduardo Garcia’s motion to compel responses to the request for production of
documents and orders Plaintiff Alamtaj Khazaee to provide code-compliant
verified responses and to produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and/or other things requested without objections by October 27,
2023. 
 The Court GRANTS Defendant
Eduardo Garcia’s motion to compel responses to the special interrogatories
orders Plaintiff Alamtaj Khazaee to provide code-compliant verified responses
to the special interrogatories without objections by October 27, 2023. 
 The
Court GRANTS Defendant Eduardo Garcia’s motion
to compel responses to the form interrogatories orders Plaintiff Alamtaj
Khazaee to provide code-compliant verified responses to the form interrogatories
without objections by October 27, 2023. 
 The Court GRANTS Defendant
Eduardo Garcia’s request for sanctions and orders Plaintiff Alamtaj Khazaee
and Plaintiff’s counsel to pay Defendant Eduardo Garcia $1,000 in sanctions by October 27, 2023. 
 Moving party is to give
notice of this ruling.