 Case Number:  21STCV19398    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 24, 2021, Plaintiff Abby Ademe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants John Yu (“Yu”), Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1-20 for
motor vehicle tort, general negligence, intentional tort, products liability,
premises liability and emotional distress. 
On
May 3, 2023, Uber filed an answer. 
On
June 20, 2023, the Court granted Uber’s motion to compel arbitration. 
On
August 8, 2023, Yu filed a demurrer to be heard on September 27, 2023.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
On
September 18, 2023, Yu filed a declaration by his counsel addressing the scope
of the stay the Court imposed when it granted Uber’s motion to compel arbitration. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Yu
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer. 
DISCUSSION 
          The Court has reviewed the declaration of Yu’s counsel regarding
the arbitration stay.  Counsel points out
that the Court’s tentative ruling on Uber's motion to compel arbitration, posted June 19, 2023, stated: “The action against Uber is stayed
pending the outcome of arbitration.” 
          The Court’s subsequent minute order, dated June 20, 2023,
however, states: “The case is ordered stayed pending binding arbitration as to
the entire action. All other scheduled hearings set in this department are
ordered vacated.” 
          The tentative ruling stated the Court’s intended
order.  The Court will issue an order
modifying the June 20, 2023, minute order to clarify that the stay applies only
to Plaintiff’s claims against Uber. 
Plaintiff’s claims against Yu are not subject to the stay. 
          The Court will also continue the hearing on this demurrer
to ensure that Plaintiff has an opportunity to file an opposition.  The Court does not know if Plaintiff failed
to file an opposition previously due to a reasonable belief that the entire
case was stayed. 
          The Court will provide a date for the continued hearing on
the demurrer at tomorrow’s hearing. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the demurrer of Defendant John Yu to a date to be provided at
the September 27, 2023 hearing. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.