 Case Number:  21STCV19633    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 25, 2021, Plaintiff John Loy (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Jake Morris (“Morris”), Inland, Inland
Kenworth, Inc., Inland Lease & Rental Inc., and Does 1-15 for motor
vehicle tort. 
On
January 3, 2022, Morris and Inland Lease & Rental, Inc. dba Inland Paclease
(erroneously sued and served as Inland; Inland Kenworth Inc.; and Inland Lease
& Rental, Inc.) filed answers. 
On
June 24, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Elite
Construction Equipment, LLC (“Elite”) as Doe 1. 
On
July 13, 2022, the Court dismissed Morris, Inland, Inland Kenworth Inc., and Inland
Lease and Rental without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
July 25, 2022, Elite filed an answer. 
On
June 1, 2023, Elite filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on August
18, 2023. The Court continued the hearing on the motion to September 27, 2023.
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On August 11, 2023, Elite filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for August 1, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Elite
requests that the Court grant the motion for summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be
taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.       Negligence 
‘The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are
“(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)
the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE:  
The
Court grants Elite’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453.) 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of California Vehicle Code
section 22107 and pages from the California Commercial Drivers handbook. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS:         
          Plaintiff’s objections to Declaration of Hany Nicola: 
Overruled:   2Sustained:    1 
          Plaintiff’s objections to Declaration of Larry Miller: 
                    Overruled:  2, 4                    Sustained:  1, 3, 5, 6 
Plaintiff’s
objections to Declaration of Jay Przybyla, Ph.D., P.E. 
          Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7            Sustained:  4 
Elite’s
objections to the Declaration of Lew Grill 
          Overruled: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 13, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24            Sustained:  2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 20, 23 
Elite’s
objections to the Declaration of Joseph G. Yates 
          Overruled: 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 34            Sustained:  26, 32, 33 
Elite’s
additional objections: 
Sustained:  35, 36, 37 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Undisputed facts 
On
May 13, 2019, at approximately 6:10 a.m., Plaintiff John Loy was riding a
motorcycle in the number three lane heading northbound on the US-101 freeway
near downtown Los Angeles in heavy traffic. 
(PUMF 1.) 
Elite’s
big-rig changed lanes to the right into a lane occupied by a white vehicle that
Plaintiff was following in the same lane on his motorcycle.  (UMF 1.) 
Elite’s big-rig and the white vehicle did not collide as a result of
Elite’s big-rig lane change.  (UMF 2.) 
The
white vehicle applied its brakes and merged safely into the lane to its right
without colliding with Elite’s big-rig. (UMF
3.)  Plaintiff continued riding his motorcycle in
the same lane now occupied by Elite’s big-rig. (UMF 4.) 
Plaintiff
then merged into the lane to his right behind the white vehicle. (UMF 5.)  Plaintiff travelled in his new lane behind the
white vehicle and to the right of Elite’s big-rig. (UMF 6.) 
Plaintiff’s
motorcycle overturned behind the white vehicle and to the right of Elite’s
big-rig. (UMF 7.)  Plaintiff did
not collide with or touch the white vehicle or Elite’s big-rig before his
motorcycle overturned and he went down. (UMF 8.)  Plaintiff’s body hit the road and ended up
under Elite’s big-rig. (UMF 9.) 
B.   Elite’s moving papers 
Elite
argues the Court should grant summary judgment because Plaintiff’s own errors
in riding his motorcycle caused his injuries. 
Elite contends (1) it did not breach a duty of care to Plaintiff, (2) it
did not cause and was not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries,
and (3) Plaintiff’s intervening actions
broke the chain of causation and superseded Elite’s alleged negligence, eliminating
Elite’s liability. 
Elite
has carried its initial summary judgment burden by presenting evidence that
(1) Elite’s driver activated his vehicle’s lane
change signal before changing lanes and made the lane change safely and slowly,
leaving sufficient distance between Elite’s vehicle and the surrounding
vehicles, (2) Plaintiff’s motorcycle was traveling faster than surrounding
traffic, (3) Plaintiff waited approximately 6 seconds to start braking even
though the vehicles around him had started to brake, and (4) Plaintiff
overapplied his brakes.  The burden
shifts to Plaintiff. 
C.   Plaintiff’s opposition  
In
opposition to the summary judgment motion, Plaintiff has presented evidence
that (1) Elite’s driver did not properly signal his lane change before he changed
lanes, (2) the Elite vehicle changed lanes suddenly in front of Plaintiff, and
(3) Elite’s driver did not maintain adequate space around Elite’s vehicle. 
Plaintiff’s
trucking expert, Lew Grill, opined that Elite’s vehicle made an unsafe lane
change and failed to maintain proper spacing between the Elite vehicle and
nearby vehicles when making the lane change.  Grill concluded that Elite’s driver failed to
exercise caution, failed to properly signal the lane change, and failed to
leave adequate spacing for stopping and starting.  
Plaintiff’s
accident reconstruction expert, Joseph G. Yates, opined that Elite’s vehicle caused
the white vehicle and Plaintiff’s vehicle to react in ways that led to
Plaintiff’s crash. 
The
Court finds that the conflicting evidence creates triable issues of material
fact as outlined above that prevent the Court from granting summary judgment. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Elite Construction Equipment, LLC’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.