  Case Number:  23TRCV01457    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Wednesday, May 15, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                         Calendar No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
NW
Automotive Group, LLC v. Canoo Technologies, Inc., et al.   
23TRCV01457
1.      NW Automotive Group, LLC’s Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            NW Automotive Group, LLC’s Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on May 8, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Defendant requested that Plaintiff supply fog
lamps for electric vehicles. Plaintiff incurred expenses in manufacturing the
fog lamps. However, Defendant delayed production of the vehicles and ultimately
reneged on its agreement. Plaintiff demanded that it be compensated for the
capital expenditures made in reliance on Defendant’s order. Defendant first
agreed to make installment payments, and then failed to make any payments.  
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a First
Amended Complaint to add an additional cause of action for promissory estoppel.
  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiff adequately complied with Rule 3.1324(a).
Plaintiff provided a “red-lined” version of the First Amended Complaint which
details the additions and changes made. 
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff provided a declaration meeting elements (1)
to (4) above. (Decl., Alexander L. Conti, ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint is granted. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve the First
Amended Complaint within three days of this date. 
 