 Case Number:  24TRCV00249    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Wednesday, May 15,
2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 16
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rose Marie Krawczyk v. Episcopal
Community & Services for Senior, et al.
            24TRCV00249
1.      Belmont Village RPV, LLC, et al.’s Petition to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
2.      Episcopal Community & Services for Senior, et
al.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Proceedings
3.      Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Motion for Trial Preference
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Belmont Village RPV, LLC, et al.’s
(“Belmont Village”) and Episcopal Community & Services for Senior, et al.’s
(“Canterbury”) Petitions to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings are denied.

 
            Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Motion for
Trial Preference is granted.
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January
24, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Due to the negligent and
willful conduct of Defendants, Plaintiff suffered multiple falls at Defendants’
facilities causing serious injuries to Plaintiff. Plaintiff set forth the
following causes of action: 1. Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect 2. Negligence 3.
Violation of Health & Safety Code 1430. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Belmont Village RPV, LLC, et al.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and
Stay Proceedings
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure §§ 1280, et seq., and the FAA on the grounds that Plaintiff
executed an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiff is bound to arbitrate the
claims alleged in the Complaint.
 
Defendants attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Jeffrey S. Healy, the purported arbitration
agreement. The declarant does not indicate who signed the agreement. However, a
review of the agreement shows that it was signed by an individual named Jane
Angel. 
 
Defendants submitted no competent evidence to
establish that Jane Angel had authority to sign the arbitration agreement on
behalf of Plaintiff. A person is not the patient’s authorized agent simply by
virtue of being the patient’s next of kin. 
Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center,
Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 302 (holding that the patient’s daughters
had no authority to sign arbitration agreement even though they were next of
kin where there was no evidence that she had signed a durable power of attorney
despite the fact that she was comatose at admission).  Similarly, a patient who signs a power of
attorney form after a family member already signed an arbitration agreement for
her does not automatically ratify the earlier arbitration agreement.  Flores
v. Evergreen At San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 588 (holding
that husband could not bind wife to the arbitration agreement because there was
no evidence showing that the wife gave her express or implied consent to have
husband act as her agent).  
 
Here, Defendants provided no evidence to show that Jane
Angel was Plaintiff’s agent.  “An agency
is actual when the agent is really employed by the principal.”  Civ. Code, § 2299.  Defendants submitted no evidence that an
actual agency was created herein.  
 
“When a defendant contends an agreement to arbitrate
is binding because it was signed by an agent of the plaintiff, the defendant
bears the burden of proving the signatory was the plaintiff's actual or
ostensible agent. A defendant seeking to compel arbitration does not meet its
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement when it does not
present any evidence that the purported principal's conduct caused the agent or
the [defendant] to believe that the agent had the authority to bind the principal.
In particular, a defendant cannot meet its burden to prove the signatory acted
as the agent of a plaintiff by relying on representations of the purported
agent alone.” Kinder v. Capistrano Beach Care Center, LLC (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 804, 812 (internal citations and quotations omitted). In Kinder,
the Court held that the mere statement in the arbitration clause that the
signer was acting as resident’s agent was insufficient. Here, in the instant
action, Defendants provided no evidence to establish that Jane Angel was the
agent of Plaintiff.  
 
In addition, there is no evidence of ostensible
agency. “An agency is ostensible when
the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a third person
to believe another to be his agent who is not really employed by him.”  Civ. Code, § 2300.  However, Defendants submitted no evidence to
establish ostensible agency.  No evidence
was provided as to any acts of Plaintiff whereby Defendants were made to
believe that Jane Angel was Plaintiff’s agent. 
 
Also, as noted above, in certain
situations, a non-party to an agreement may be equitably estopped from refusing
to be bound by an arbitration agreement.  
Turtle Ridge Media Group, Inc. v.
Pacific Bell Directory (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 828, 831-35.  Here, however, Defendants submitted no
evidence to establish that Plaintiff is equitably estopped from refusing to be
bound by the agreement.      
 
Because the moving party
failed to meet its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration
clause with respect to the claims of decedent, the burden does not shift to
Plaintiff to show that the arbitration clause should not be enforced as to
these claims. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
Defendants Belmont Village
RPV, LLC, et al.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is denied.
 
Episcopal Community &
Services for Senior, et al.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and to Stay
Proceedings
 
With respect to Canterbury’s
petition, the Court exercises its discretion to deny the motion pursuant to CCP
§ 1281.2(c). 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c)
provides an exception to arbitration when:
“A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
further provides:
“If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement
and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or
special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
Here, in addition to Defendants
Belmont Village RPV, LLC failing to establish that its claims are subject to
arbitration, there are other parties not subject to this motion – Defendants Ruth
Oberg and Clipboard Health, LLC. Thus, even assuming that an arbitration
provision has been established between Plaintiff and Canterbury, the Court exercises
its discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration clause pursuant to CCP §
1281.2(c) and to proceed in this single court action.
 
In addition, as readily
acknowledged by Canterbury, Plaintiff’s cause of action for Violation of Health
& Safety Code § 1430 is not subject to arbitration. If this was the only
reason for invoking CCP § 1281.2(c), the Court perhaps would have considered
staying the court action and ordering arbitration.  However, as noted above, this is not the only
reason for invoking Section 1281.2(c) as other parties exist who are not
apparently subject to arbitration. In addition, the Court considers the
prejudice that would result to Plaintiff in ordering a stay as it may
potentially deprive Plaintiff’s right to a mandatory trial preference which is
addressed below.
 
Therefore, the Court declines to grant the petition to
compel arbitration.  Thus, Defendants’
Petition to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action is denied.  
 
Motion for Preferential Trial Date
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action
as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference
is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.
(f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference,
the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date
and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the
motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party's
attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance
shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.”
 
CCP § 36.5 states: “An affidavit submitted in support
of a motion for Preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by
the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief
as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not
admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36.”
 
“[T]he decision to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.” Salas
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344. “Where a party meets
the requisite standard for calendar preference under subdivision (a),
preference must be granted. No weighing of interests is involved.” Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 535 (granting the mandatory
motion for trial preference and disregarding Defendant’s arguments that the
Court must balance the interests of the parties, and, further commenting that
arguments regarding due process concerns were baseless). “We conclude that
section 36, subdivision (a), as construed by this court in Rice v. Superior
Court (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 81 [185 Cal.Rptr. 853], is mandatory and
absolute in its application and does not allow a trial court to exercise the
inherent or statutory general administrative authority it would otherwise
have.” Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692
(reversing the trial Court’s order to stay an action which was entitled to a
mandatory trial preference and commenting that when an individual qualifies for
a preference under Section 36(a) no discretion is afforded to the Court to deny
a preference). 
 
Objections
 
Canterbury’s objections 1 to 3 are overruled.
 
Motion for Preference
 
Plaintiff moves for a trial preference pursuant to CCP
§ 36(a), based on Plaintiff’s age and health condition. Plaintiff also moves under CCP § 36(e) on the grounds
that the granting of preference would serve the interests of justice.  
 
Plaintiff submitted evidence that Plaintiff is over
the age of 70 and that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in this action.  (Decl., Lukas I. Pick, ¶¶ 1-6; Ex. A.)  Plaintiff submitted adequate evidence that
her health is such that a trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing
Plaintiff.  (Id. at ¶¶ 1-6.)  “The standard under [Code of Civil Procedure
Section 36] subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision (d), which is more
specific and more rigorous, includes no requirement of a doctor’s declaration.”
Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, 534. Unlike other areas of the law, a declaration setting
forth the health of the party in support of a motion for preference under CCP §
36(a) may be made by a conclusory and hearsay declaration from counsel.  Here, Plaintiff’s counsel adequately complied
by setting forth a conclusory hearsay declaration as to the client’s health. 
 
As noted above, an order granting Plaintiff’s motion
for trial preference is mandatory upon a showing by Plaintiff that she has met
the requirements of Section 36(a).  There
is no weighing of interests involved. 
 
Defendants’ oppositions attempt to attack the
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel. The objections to the declaration have been
ruled upon above. The Court finds that the declaration is competent and
sufficient to testify as to Plaintiff’s health considering the incredibly low
evidentiary threshold that has been established by case authority. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Preferential Trial
Setting is granted. 
 
The trial date is set for ______________________.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 