 Case Number:  24STCV03626    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-7-25
Case
#24STCV03626
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
ARBITRATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Real Time Staffing Services, LLC, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Emilia Sanchez
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Emilia
Sanchez was employed from June 18, 2021 through February 10, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges wrongful termination following an on the job injury thereby interfering
with work as a fork lift operator on November 18, 2021. 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint for 1. Discrimination
In Violation Of Gov’t Code §§12940 Et Sep.: 2. Retaliation In Violation Of
Gov’t Code §§12940 Et Sep.: 3. Failure To Prevent Discrimination And
Retaliation In Violation Of Gov’t Code §12940(K); 4. Failure To Provide
Reasonable Accommodations In Violation Of Gov’t Code §§12940 Et Seq.; 5.
Failure To Engage In A Good Faith Interactive Process In Violation Of Gov’t
Code §§12940 Et Seq.; 6. For Declaratory Judgment; And 7. Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy. Defendants answered the complaint on March 21, and
April 5, 2024. On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Prologistix. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendants Real Time Staffing Services, LLC d/b/a
Select Staffing, Employbridge Holding Company, and Employbridge, LLC, move to
compel arbitration on the complaint filed by Plaintiff Emilia Sanchez. Defendant
Syncreon Technology (USA) LLC filed a joinder and additional points and
authorities in support. Defendants maintain Plaintiff executed the agreement,
all claims are subject to arbitration under the terms of the agreement, and the
agreement in no way presents unconscionable terms. Defendants Real Time
Staffing Services, LLC, et al. submitted a notice of non-opposition. 
 
The
law creates a general presumption in favor of arbitration. In a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a
preponderance of evidence the existence of the arbitration agreement and that
the dispute is covered by the agreement. The burden then shifts to the
resisting party to prove by a preponderance of evidence a ground for denial
(e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin'l
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414; Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Ctr., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.) Any challenges to the formation of the arbitration agreement should
be considered before any order sending the parties to arbitration. The trier of fact weighs all evidence, including
affidavits, declarations, documents, and, if applicable, oral testimony to
determine whether the action goes to arbitration. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr., Inc., supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at
p. 758.)
 
Defendants represent that Employbridge Holding Company
is the holding company for Employbridge, LLC, with Employbridge LLC operating
as the parent company of Real Time Staffing Services, LLC. Plaintiff was
assigned to work at Syncreon Technology (USA) LLC. [Declaration of Jessica
Sanchez.] According to counsel for Real Time Staffing, LLC, et al., Plaintiff
agrees to submit to binding arbitration if all parties, including Syncreon
Technology (USA) LLC execute the stipulation. At the time of filing of the motion,
Syncreon Technology (USA) LLC was not willing to stipulate. [Declaration of
Michael Kun.] In the later filed joinder, Syncreon Technology (USA) LLC, now
indicates its willingness to join the stipulation. [Declaration of Eric
Giting.] 
 
With the lack of any opposition and representation of
a willingness from ALL parties to stipulate, rather than wait for a submitted
stipulation to the court, the court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration of
all parties. The participating parties are to select an individual arbitrator
pursuant to the terms of the agreement. 
 
“If
a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) The action is stayed. 
 
The
court vacates the July 3 and July 14, 2025, final status conference and trial
date. The court will set an OSC re: Status of Arbitration and Stay at the time
of the hearing.
 
Moving
Defendants to provide notice to all parties.
 