  Case Number:  22STCV36344    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 1-7-25
Case # 22STCV36344 
Trial Date: 4-21-25 c/f 11-12-24 c/f 10-21-24 c/f 8-19-24
c/f 7-22-24 c/f 6-3-24
 
STAY
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants, 1016 Industries, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Giavanna Papasavvas
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motions to Stay the Action
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On November 17, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for 1.
Sexual Harassment In Violation Of FEHA; 2. Sex Discrimination In Violation Of FEHA;
3. Retaliation In Violation Of FEHA; 4. Failure To Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination & Retaliation In Violation Of FEHA; 5. Retaliation In
Violation Of Labor Code § 1102.5; 6. Sexual Battery; 7. Wrongful Termination In
Violation Of Public Policy. On September 3, 2024, the court denied Defendants
motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication. 
 
RULING: Granted in Part/Denied in Part.
Request for Judicial Notice and Supplemental Request for
Judicial Notice: Granted.
·        
The court takes judicial notice of the
filed pleadings and trial court orders, but cannot take judicial notice of the
content of any and all said items for the truth of the matter asserted. On the
Orders specifically,  the court also
declines to take judicial notice regarding the truth of any truth of a factual
finding incorporated into said unpublished trial court orders. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 8.1115(a); Rittiman v. Public Utilities Com.
(2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1018, 1043 (footnote 18); Kilroy v. State of California (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th
140, 147-148; Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548,
1565.)
 
Following the September 13, 2024, denial of the motion
for summary judgment/23 issue motion for summary adjudication, on September 20,
2024, Defendants filed motion to stay the action. The court (Department 92)
denied the ex parte motion brought on the same date. On September 26, 2024, the
court granted the ex parte motion to continue the trial date to April 21, 2025.
Defendants 1016 Industries, Inc. and Peter Northrop now move to stay the entire
action pending resolution of trials in Miami Dade County Florida complaint
Papasavvas v. 1016 Indus., Inc., Antharacite Leasing of S. Fl., and Peter
Northrop (case number 2022-019888-CA-01). The motion also contains an unnoticed/unintroduced
motion to dismiss buried in the points and authorities. 
 
Again, the court takes judicial notice of the existence
of said action and the adjudication of the case, but will not consider the
content of any pleadings or factual findings of the trial court. The court
acknowledges the order for the return of the McClaren vehicle upon the positing
of a $40,000 bond by Plaintiff [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. B.] The court also takes
judicial notice of the order granting Plaintiff leave to file an amended
complaint. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. F.] Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint
for accounting, declaratory judgment, declare void judgment, and recission of
illusory contract, on May 2, 2023. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. J.]
 
Defendants move to (dismiss and) stay the action on
grounds that the employment claims before the court overlap and intertwine with
the Florida trial court action regarding the dispute over the McClaren vehicle.
Defendants at least in part contend the earlier Florida case holds exclusive
and concurrent jurisdiction, thereby prompting a stay of the later filed
instant action pending resolution of the Florida filed complaint. The subject
challenge was previously raised in the order denying summary judgment/summary
adjudication, whereby the court found in relevant part:
 
“Defendants initially challenged jurisdiction in a motion
to dismiss. On April 5, 2023, the court denied the motion to dismiss or
alternatively stay the action. The subsequently filed answer of Defendants
includes an affirmative defense for forum non conveniens/inconvenient forum.
Defendant therefore properly preserved the issue. 
 
“The motion and declaration lack any copy of or
indication of the claims currently pending in the Florida action. Again, the
court declines to consider the allegations contained in the copy of the
Miami-Dade County complaint and determine the propriety of the otherwise unmade
arguments based on the purported ‘first’ employment agreement.
 
“Thus, the court finds no evidentiary basis for any
consideration of abatement, even though Defendants properly preserved the
issue. The same lack of substantive support also precludes any meaningful
consideration of the exclusive concurrent jurisdiction argument as well. Even
if the court considered the forum selection clause regarding the indemnity and
vehicle use agreement, nothing in the operative complaint apparently addresses
said agreement or vehicle use.”
 
The court once again finds the issue preserved for
consideration, and Defendants now present evidentiary support for the argument
albeit subject to the limits of judicial notice. Defendants maintain the
“Agreement” underlying both complaints applies to both the vehicle and
purported employment relationship. 
 
“Under the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction, ‘when
two superior courts have concurrent jurisdiction over the subject matter and
all parties involved in litigation, the first to assume jurisdiction has
exclusive and continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter and all parties
involved until such time as all necessarily related matters have been resolved.’
(Citations). The rule is based upon the public policies of avoiding conflicts
that might arise between courts if they were free to make contradictory
decisions or awards relating to the same controversy, and preventing vexatious
litigation and multiplicity of suits. (Citations.) The rule is
established and enforced not “so much to protect the rights of parties as to
protect the rights of Courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction to avoid conflict of
jurisdiction, confusion and delay in the administration of justice.” (Crowley
v. Davis (1869) 37 Cal. 268, 269.) The rule of exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction may constitute a ground for abatement of the subsequent action. (Citation.)
(2) “An order of abatement issues as a matter of right not as a matter of
discretion where the conditions for its issuance exist.” (Lawyers Title,
supra, at p. 460.) However, abatement is not appropriate where the first
action cannot afford the relief sought in the second. (Citations.) 
[¶]
“A plea in abatement pursuant to section 430.10,
subdivision (c), may be made by demurrer or answer when there is another action
pending between the same parties on the same cause of action. (Citations.)
In determining whether the causes of action are the same for purposes of pleas
in abatement, the rule is that such a plea may be maintained only where a
judgment in the first action would be a complete bar to the second action. (Citation.)
Where a demurrer is sustained on the ground of another action pending, the
proper order is not a dismissal, but abatement of further proceedings pending
termination of the first action. (Citations.)
 
“Although the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction
is similar in effect to the statutory plea in abatement, it has been
interpreted and applied more expansively, and therefore may apply where the
narrow grounds required for a statutory plea of abatement do not exist. (Citation.)
Unlike the statutory plea of abatement, the rule of exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction does not require absolute identity of parties, causes of action or
remedies sought in the initial and subsequent actions. (Citations.) If
the court exercising original jurisdiction has the power to bring before it all
the necessary parties, the fact that the parties in the second action are not
identical does not preclude application of the rule. Moreover, the remedies
sought in the separate actions need not be precisely the same so long as the
court exercising original jurisdiction has the power to litigate all the issues
and grant all the relief to which any of the parties might be entitled under
the pleadings. (Citations.)”
 
(Plant Insulation Co. v. Fibreboard Corp. (1990)
224 Cal.App.3d 781, 786–788.)
 
Plaintiff in opposition seeks to distinguish the
vehicle related claims from the broader employment and uninvited sexual contact
based claims. Plaintiff cites to the prior court order, whereby the court
denied a stay on grounds of insufficient overlap of claims thereby leading to a
finding of potential prejudice. [Plaintiff’s Req. Jud. Not., Ex. D.] Again, the
court cannot consider any potential factual findings made by the prior judicial
officer on the subject action. Even if the court considered the order, the
tentative ruling was not a final order in that the court took the matter under
submission. The tentative also suggested a prejudicial delay “if there was a
significant delay in the Florida litigation,” which the court finds
inapplicable given the lack of jurisdiction by this court over the Florida
court. The subsequently issued final order only “DENIED” the motion without
further explanation. The court declines to speculate or assume anything other
than a plain acknowledgment of the “Denied” order. The court also acknowledges
the prior language in the summary judgment/summary adjudication order, whereby
the court reviewed the complaint and found no basis for intertwining claims
justifying abatement. The court however considered the position in context of
the factually unsupported arguments, and elects to again review the actions
under the standard with proper evidence before the court. 
 
Defendant in reply reiterates the “overlap” between
the actions as the basis for the stay. Defendants deny any prejudice. 
 
The Florida second amended complaint identifies the
existence of a “User Agreement sublease,” which also contained an
indemnification clause, whereby Plaintiff would promote the use of 1016
Industries carbon fiber components incorporated into the subject vehicle for
purposes of brand marketing and sales. Plaintiff identifies commissioned
payment system arising from the use of Plaintiff’s image with said vehicle and
social marketing circulation. Plaintiff notes the sexual advances of Defendant
Northrop, and ultimate termination of employment on September 28, 2022, thereby
“rendering her marketing performance impossible.” The vehicle was subsequently
“seized.” The four-count complaint seeks payment on the commission agreement,
reimbursement for certain advanced expenses, and entitlement to vehicle
possession. 
 
Consistent with the order denying summary
judgment/summary adjudication, the court again finds sufficient distinction to
avoid a finding justifying complete abatement of the instant action, due to the
distinctions between the actions. The action before this court delves far more
into the sexual harassment aspects of the relationship between the parties, and
lacks any claim for possession of the vehicle or adjudication on the commission
based agreement. The motion id dismiss is therefore DENIED.  
 
Nevertheless, the concurrent complaints clearly
present overlapping claims and an argument can be made for potential claim
splitting at the core of the course of events between the parties. The court
declines to engage in such analysis from the presented briefs. 
 
Given the already pending action in the Florida
court, the court instead considers the requested stay. “Trial courts generally
have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to
promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; see OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 141 [“[A] court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion,
to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice”]; Cooper v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 55 Cal.2d 291, 301; Bailey v. Fosca Oil Co.
(1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 813, 817.) 
 
Again, the review of the pleadings undeniably raises
crossover issues, which the court finds potentially dispositive between the
actions. The Florida case was indisputably filed first, and therefore takes
priority on abatement grounds. While abatement is not considered at the moment,
the potential for later determinations as to the impacts of the adjudication of
the Florida action warrants a stay of the instant action. Allowing somewhat parallel
actions to proceed becomes fraught with the potential for duplicative recovery,
and redundant adjudication. This potential result is both inefficient and
potentially unfair. The court therefore GRANTS the motion to stay the action. 
 
The court disfavors open ended stays, however. While the
court acknowledges the effort to seek dismissal of the Florida action, the
motion lacks any indication of scheduled motion or trial dates. The court will
not allow for an indefinite period of any stay, and will seek updates. The
court will therefore set an OSC re: Status of the Miami Dade County Complaint for
90-120 days from the subject hearing date. Depending on the update, the court
will either further continue the stay or lift the stay and set new hearing
dates. 
 
The April 21, 2025, trial date is vacated. The discovery
motions for February 2, 4, 6, and 10, 2025, are off-calendar. 
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
 