 Case Number:  21STCV35634    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  39 Fredy Wembe v.
Target Stores, Inc., et al.
Case No.
21STCV35634
 
Order #1 of 4
Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Mental Examination
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”).  Now, Defendants seek to compel a mental
examination of Plaintiff under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.020.  Plaintiff has placed his mental condition at
issue in this lawsuit, which means Defendants are entitled to conduct their own
mental examination of Plaintiff. 
Contrary to Plaintiff’s counsel’s argument, the motion is timely.    
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendants’ motion for a mental
examination of Plaintiff is granted. 
Plaintiff shall make himself available for the examination within twenty
(20) days.  
 
            2.         The parties shall meet-and-confer
forthwith and select the date or dates for the examination.
 
            3.         The Court authorizes Dr. David K.
Wellisch, a licensed clinical psychologist, to conduct the psychological
testing.  The Court authorizes Dr. Saul
J. Faerstein to perform the examination and prepare the report.  Defendants shall disclose Dr. Wellisch’s
qualifications if they have not done so already.  
 
            4.         The examination is limited to ten (10)
hours not including breaks.  The
examination may be broken into two days if necessary, i.e., one day for Dr.
Wellisch to administer the tests and one day for Dr. Faerstein to perform the
examination.     
 
            5.         The Court will not limit the examiner’s
selection of tests.  The examiner, not
the Court, shall determine what tests are appropriate to render an
opinion.   
 
            6.         The examination is not limited to
Plaintiff’s present mental state.  The
examiner, not the Court, shall determine what subjects are appropriate to
render an opinion.  In the Court’s
experience, an understanding of a plaintiff’s past mental state is necessary to
understand how the defendants’ alleged conduct affected him.
 
            7.          A recording of the examination shall
be made and provided to Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
            8.         The disclosure of the examiner’s
report, if any, shall be governed by the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
            9.         Defendants shall pay the reasonable
costs and expenses of Plaintiff’s travel to the session(s).  
 
            10.       Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice
and file proof of such with the Court.      

 
 
Order #2 of 4
Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”).  Defendants move to compel further responses
to certain Requests for Production of Documents (“RPD”) and Special
Interrogatories (“SROG”).  The Court
rules as follows:
 
            RPD #77 and
RPD #78 – Defendants seek to compel Plaintiff to produce “any and all mobile
and/or personal cellular devices” that he maintained/used from January 1, 2015,
through the present, as well as all passwords necessary to access them.  On its face, this request is overly
broad.  Defendants may request specific
documents (i.e., all written communications with other Target
employees/supervisors).  If so, Plaintiff
would be required to produce any such documents in his possession, custody, or
control (i.e., any documents located on his cellular devices).  The Court would consider ordering Plaintiff
to produce his cellular devices for inspection as a discovery sanction if
Defendant proves that Plaintiff intentionally withheld or destroyed responsive
documents in this case.  But there is no
good cause to order a plaintiff in an employment case to produce his
mobile/personal cellular devices at this stage. 
Plaintiff has a right to privacy in “various private or sensitive
information regarding [his] personal life . . . .”  (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 997, 1003-1004.)  The devices
at issue are Plaintiff’s personal devices, not devices provided by Target for
official use.  It appears that Plaintiff
did, in fact, produce text messages in response to Defendants’ discovery
requests.  (See Declaration of Nonnette
Perry, Exh. H.)  Defendants’ counsel
articulates no basis to conclude that Plaintiff withheld unfavorable
documents.  Defendants’ counsel merely
speculates: 
 
“To the extent additional text messages exist, they may be
directly relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations and are integral to Target’s
defenses in this action.  It is likely
that there are additional text messages, including the messages that may have
been deleted, between them or between Plaintiff and others in which Plaintiff
may have used the same or similar age-based comments of which Plaintiff accuses
Quijada and are, thus, relevant to Target’s defense that the comments were not
subjectively offensive and did not cause Plaintiff emotional distress.”
 
(Defendants’ Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p.
13:15-20.)  Defendants’ counsel
references “the messages that may have been deleted.”  The motion provides no proof that any
messages were deleted.  The Court’s
review of the text message at issue—Exhibit H—does not necessarily suggest that
a relevant text message was not produced or deleted.  Simply, if the Court granted the motion on
these facts, it would have to order a forensic examination in every employment
case in which a plaintiff communicates with his supervisor via text message.  Therefore, the motion is DENIED with respect
to RPD #77 and RDP #78.    
 
            SROG #1 –
DENIED.  See above.
 
            SROG #2 –
GRANTED.  Defendant is entitled to
Plaintiff’s telephone number(s) during the relevant time to attempt to determine
whether, and to what extent, he communicated with other employees/supervisors.
 
            SROG #3 –
GRANTED.  Defendant is entitled to
Plaintiff’s mobile/cellular carriers for the reasons discussed above.  
 
Defendant also moves to compel
Plaintiff to sign an authorization for the release of his records from the
Employment Development Department (“EDD”). 
No provision of the Civil Discovery Act permits one party to compel the
other to sign an authorization for the release of records.  The Court does not have the power to create
additional methods of discovery.  (See,
e.g., San Diego Unified Port Dist. V. Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1405, collecting cases.) 
The Court notes, however, that, were Defendants to serve requests for
production of documents on Plaintiff for his EDD records, Plaintiff would be
obligated to produce all documents in her “possession, custody, or control . .
. .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)  Plaintiff presumably can obtain his own EDD
records, and he has agreed to do so in this case.  Therefore, pursuant to the parties’
stipulation, the Court orders Plaintiff to obtain and produce his EDD records,
to the extent he is able to do so.  
 
Finally, Defendant moves to compel
Plaintiff’s counsel to produce a custodian of records declaration concerning
documents produced by Plaintiff’s daughter. 
This motion was not served on Judith Parada, and Plaintiff’s counsel
does not represent her.  Plaintiff’s
counsel has represented that he has a conflict and that Ms. Parada is
represented by David DeRubertis, Esq.  Therefore,
the motion is denied for lack of notice. 
Defendant’s counsel may file a new motion and serve Judith Parada (as
well as Plaintiff’s counsel) or may simply take her deposition concerning the
documents at issue, as fact discovery is still open.
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
grants the motion in part and denies the motion in part.  The Court orders Plaintiff to provide further
responses to SROG #2 and SROG #3 without objections within twenty (20) days.  Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.        
 
 
Order #3 of 4
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff moves to compel further responses
to certain special interrogatories (“SROG”). 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.030, a party may propound 35
special interrogatories absent good cause, such as based on “[t]he complexity
or the quantity of the existing and potential issues in the particular
case.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.040.)  This is a straightforward
employment case warranting no more than 35 or perhaps 40 special
interrogatories.  Plaintiff’s counsel has
served at least 59 special interrogatories without good cause.  The Court also finds that many of the
requests are overbroad in terms of time frame and scope.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses is denied.  Defendants’
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 
Order #4 of 4
Case Management
Order
 
The Court advances and continues
the following dates as follows:
 
1.         Hearing
on Motion for Summary Judgment:  From
April 15, 2024, to _____, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
2.         Final
Status Conference:  From May 24, 2024, to
_________, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.
 
3.         Trial:  From June 4, 2024, to _______, 2024, at 9:30
a.m.
 
Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and file proof of
such with the Court.  
 