  Case Number:  19STCV11497    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  39 Adrian Komorowski
v. Charter Communications, LLC
Case No.
19STCV11497
Motion for
Protective Order
Case Management
Conference
 
            Plaintiff Adrian Komorowski
(“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Charter Communications, LLC (“Charter”)
and Farid Golshan (“Golshan”) (collectively, “Defendants”) on April 3,
2019.  Plaintiff seeks to depose Tony
Guevara, who is Charter’s Senior Vice President, Sales Call Centers.  Defendant moves to a protective order, which
Plaintiff opposes.  The motion is granted.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.420 provides, “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any . . . deponent . . . from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420.)  Per Liberty
Mutual Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, “it
amounts to an abuse of discretion to withhold a protective order when a [party]
seeks to depose a corporate president, or corporate officer at the apex of the
corporate hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication of the officer’s personal
knowledge of the case and absent exhaustion of less intrusive discovery
methods.”  (Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1282, 1287.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that Guevara’s testimony is relevant because Plaintiff
complained to him about his termination and speculates that he has personal
knowledge of relevant facts. 
Specifically, Plaintiff’s counsel provides the following proffer:
“Plaintiff reached out to Tony Guevara, senior vice president of sales, after
he was terminated and informed Gevara [sic] that he was wrongfully terminated
and wanted his job back.”  (Declaration
of Twila S. White, ¶ 11.)  According to
the declaration of Rachel Mahony, Plaintiff sent an email to Guevara, dated
April 9, 2018, a copy of which was attached to her declaration.  (See Declaration of Rachel Mahony, ¶¶ 5-6
& Exh. #9.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
confirms this in her opposition to the motion. 
(Plaintiff’s Opposition, pp. 5-6.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel proffers no evidence that Guevara replied to this
email or had any correspondence or conversation with her client.  
 
Plaintiff does not establish that Guevara has any personal knowledge
about the circumstances of his termination. 
To the contrary.  Defendant
advances evidence that Guevara forwarded the complaint to the appropriate group
within Charter, where it was assigned to Mahony for investigation.  (See Declaration of Ashley N. Arnett, Exh. G,
pp. 57:9-58:6.)  Mahony testified that
she prepared an investigative report, but provided Guevara with only a one-page
executive summary.  (See id., Exh. H, p. 199:2-11.)  David Acosta, the human resources manager at
Plaintiff’s worksite, testified that Nancy Carbone, the supervisor at
Plaintiff’s worksite recommended termination, and that Thomas Smiley, Vice
President of Human Resources, played a role in Plaintiff’s termination.  (See Declaration of Twila S. White, Exh. B,
pp. 117:11-14, 193:21-25.)  The email
correspondence shows that Guevara was copied on emails but none establishes
that had any personal knowledge concerning the decision to terminate
Plaintiff.  (See id., Exh. A.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Acosta “testified that Gevara [sic] was
brought up to speed regarding Plaintiff’s allegations and his
termination.”  (Declaration of Twila S.
White, ¶ 3.)  There are two problems with
this argument.  Plaintiff’s counsel
provides no citations to the record.  The
Court’s own review of the record reveals that Acosta merely testified that “I
think” Tony Guevara approved the decision to terminate Plaintiff.  (See id., Exh. B, pp. 156:10-17, 194:1-7.)  Putting that aside, the mere fact that
Guevara approved the termination or was “brought up to speed” concerning the
termination does not establish that he had personal knowledge of the
circumstances of Plaintiff’s termination.
 
Nor does Plaintiff establish that he exhausted “less intrusive means of
discovery,” i.e., taking lower level depositions.  The Court notes that Guevara is a senior
official, who was above Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor (Farid Golshan), the
human resources manager of Plaintiff’s work site (David Acosta), the supervisor
of Plaintiff’s work site (Nancy Carbone), and the Vice President of Human
Resources (Thomas Smiley).  In order to
take Guevara’s deposition, Plaintiff would first need to take the deposition of
Nancy Carbone, then satisfy the standard to take an apex deposition of Thomas
Smiley, and then satisfy the standard to take an apex deposition of Tony
Guevara.  Plaintiff’s counsel is
attempting to “jump to the top” without good cause.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel represents that she requires additional time to
locate, subpoena, and depose three former employees of Defendant (Reanna
Nelson, Kara Huberman, and Milad Shaikh). 
(See Declaration of Twila S. White, ¶¶ 5-6.)  Plaintiff’s counsel admits that Defendant
provided the last known addresses for these former employees.  (Id., ¶ 6.) 
However, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not satisfy the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(h).  Plaintiff’s counsel does not explain when she
and her client learned of the importance of these witnesses, and when she first
attempted to subpoena them for depositions. 
Plaintiff’s counsel does not explain clearly what “facts essential to
the opposition” would be developed from the depositions of Reanna Nelson and
Kara Huberman.  Therefore, the Court
declines to treat Plaintiff’s opposition as a proper request to reopen
discovery and continue the MSJ hearing.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendant’s
motion for a protective order is granted. 
Based upon this record, Plaintiff is not entitled to take an apex
deposition of Tony Guevara, the Senior Vice President of Sales for three
reasons.  First, Plaintiff’s counsel does
not establish that he had any direct communication with her client.  Second, Plaintiff’s counsel does not
establish that he has any personal knowledge of the circumstances of
Plaintiff’s termination.  Third,
Plaintiff’s counsel has not exhausted less intrusive means of discovery, which
is required before taking the deposition of a senior vice president.
 
            2.         The
Court advances and continues the hearing on Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment from March 1, 2024, to March 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Plaintiff’s opposition shall be due based
upon statutory deadlines.
 
            3.         The
Court advances the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery and
continue the MSJ hearing from May 13, 2024, to March 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  
 
            4.         The
Court advances and vacates the final status conference and trial dates.  The Court shall hold a case management conference
on March 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. after it rules on the motions.  
 
            5.         Defendant’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 