 Case Number:  23STCV07201    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  39 Mario Cazares v.
TGB Promotions, LLC, et al.
Case No.
23STCV07201
Demurrer by
Defendant TGB Promotions
 
            Plaintiff
Mario Cazares (“Plaintiff”), who is a professional boxer, filed this action
against TGB Promotions, LLC (“TGB Promotions”) and Tom Brown (“Brown”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), among others.  In the
operative second amended complaint, Plaintiff asserts the following causes of
action: 
 
1.  Specific
performance for breach of contract – Both defendants
2.  Breach of contract
– TGB Promotions 
3.  Violation of the
Professional Boxing Safety Law, 15 U.S.C. § 6307e(b) – Both defendants 
4.  Violation of the
Professional Boxing Safety Law, 15 U.S.C. § 6304(4) – Both defendants 
5.  Conspiracy to
violate the Professional Boxing Safety Law – Both defendants 
6.  Unfair business
practices – Both defendants 
7.  Promissory
estoppel – Both defendants 
8.  Declaratory relief
– TGB Promotions 
9.  Negligence – TGB
Promotions 
10.  Negligence – Both
defendants 
 
Now, TGB Promotions demurs to the first, third, fifth,
sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of
the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        First Cause of Action – Sustained
without Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for specific performance for breach of contract.  Plaintiff alleges that he signed a contract
with TGB Promotions, which afforded him two boxing matches against Osvary David
Morrell Jr.  To state a cause of action
for specific performance, Plaintiff must allege a contract breach without an
adequate legal remedy, that the underlying contract was reasonable and
sufficiently definite to enforce, and that the requested performance is promised
in the contract.  (Real Estate
Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.)  
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to compel TGB Promotions to promote a second boxing match between him and
Morrell.  (See Second Amended Complaint,
¶ 69.)  There are several problems.  First, the agreement provided that TGB
Promotions agreed to promote a second fight between Morrell or another fighter
agreed upon by both parties.  Second, the
Court cannot compel Morrell to fight Plaintiff because he is not a party to
this action.  (See Civ. Code, § 3390.)  Finally, the second amended complaint does
not allege sufficient facts that Plaintiff lacks a sufficient legal
remedy.  Therefore, the Court sustains
the demurrer to the first cause of action without leave to amend.
 
            B.        Third Cause of Action – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
third cause of action is for violation of the Professional Boxing Safety Law,
15 U.S.C. § 6307e(b), which creates certain disclosure obligations for a
“promoter.”  Specifically, a promoter is
not entitled to receive compensation in connection with a boxing match until it
discloses to the boxer the following: (1) The amounts of
compensation/consideration it has contracted to receive from the match; (2) All
fees, charges and expenses associated with the match; and (3) Any reduction in
the boxer’s purse contrary to a previously agreement.  (See Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 85.)  Plaintiff does not allege any facts
demonstrating that he has been harmed as a result of the alleged failure to
comply with this law.  He states only
that he “has sustained monetary damages in an amount of $5,000,000.”  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 87.)  This is not sufficient.  While it is a low pleading standard,
Plaintiff must allege some fact tying the alleged non-disclosure of his
promoter’s compensation and expenses to his damages.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
            C.        Fifth Cause of Action – Sustained without
Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action is for conspiracy to violate the Professional Boxing
Safety Law.  Conspiracy is a theory of
liability, not a cause of action.  (See Favila
v. Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 189, 206.)  Putting that aside, TGB Promotions cannot
conspire with its owner, Tom Brown.  Therefore,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
            D.        Sixth Cause of Action – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
 
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action
is for unfair business practices.  Plaintiff
must allege a claim under Business and Professions Code section 17200 “with
reasonable particularity . . . .”  (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)  Plaintiff makes only  vague allegations against TGB Promotions,
which do not state with particularity the bases for Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants.  (See Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 114.)  For example, Plaintiff alleges that he “does
not have income and cannot fight anyone else without violating the Boxing
Contract.”  (Id., ¶ 114(d).)  However, the contract, a copy of which was
attached to the complaint, does not appear to support this allegation.  Therefore, the demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 

 
            E.         Eighth Cause of Action – Sustained
without Leave to Amend
 
A declaratory relief action is
inappropriate when a plaintiff has an adequate remedy on other causes of action
at trial.  (See
Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California Ins.
Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.)  
 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
 
(General of America Ins. Co.
v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) 
In this case, the declaratory relief claim is duplicative of the breach
of contract claims.  The Court has
discretion to decline to issue a declaratory judgment under these
circumstances.  (See AICCO, Inc. v.
Insurance Company of North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579, 590.)  Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to
the eighth cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
            F.         Ninth Cause of Action – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
ninth cause of action is for negligence. 
Plaintiff alleges that TGB Promotions “promised” to arrange vias for
Plaintiff’s coaches and failed to do so, as a result of which Plaintiff fought
the first match without his coaches.  To
assert a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege a duty.  The second amended complaint fails to do
so.  Therefore, the Court sustains the
demurrer to the ninth cause of action without leave to amend.  
 
            G.        Tenth Cause of Action – Sustained
without Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
tenth cause of action is for negligence. 
This cause of action is nothing more than a claim for breach of
contract.  Therefore, the demurrer to the
tenth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court sustains the demurrer.  The Court grants leave to amend with respect
to the third, sixth, and ninth causes of action.  The Court denies leave to amend with respect
to the remaining causes of action.
 
            2.         The Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel to
file an amended complaint reflecting all of the Court’s rulings on the pending
demurrers within thirty (30) days.
 
            3.         The deadline for Defendants’
answers/responsive pleadings shall be governed by statute.
 
            4.         Counsel for TGB Promotions shall
provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 