 Case Number:  23STCV19554    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  39 VerandaGlobal.com,
Inc., et. al. v. 
Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, Inc.
Case No.
23STCV19554
Demurrer
 
            Plaintiffs
VerandaGlobal, Inc. and Bryan Tallman (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action against Defendant Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers,
Inc. (“ICANN” or “Defendant”) asserting the following causes of action:
 
            1.         Declaratory Judgment 
            2.         Unfair Competition under Business and
Professions Code section 17200
            3.         Breach of Contract
            4.         Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing 
            5.         Breach of Quasi-Contract
            6.         Negligence 
            7.         Fraudulent Inducement 
 
ICANN is a California non-profit public benefits corporation
with its principal place of business in Los Angeles, California.  (Complaint, ¶ 13.)  ICANN registers internet domain names.  (Id., ¶ 2.) 
In March 2000, X.com merged with Confinity to create PayPal.  (Ibid.) 
Then, in July 2017, Elon Musk reacquired the domain X.com from
PayPal.  (Ibid.)  However, ICANN will not allow Plaintiffs to
register certain “single character” domain names.  (Id., ¶ 3.) 
This action follows, and Defendant demurs to every cause of action.
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a
demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule
of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable
to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit
Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to
the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
The gravamen of this action is that ICANN breached its own bylaws and
policies.  Plaintiffs attempt to assert
contractual claims by alleging: “Plaintiffs entered [sic] a binding agreement
with ICANN and/or through its agents that was governed by ICANN’s policies and
procedures.”  (Complaint, ¶ 131.)  Plaintiffs do not attach a copy of the
complaint or quote the relevant provisions verbatim in the body of the
complaint, which is problematic.  “If the action is based on an alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated
by reference.”  (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307, citing Otworth v. Southern Pacific Transportation Company
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459.)  Indeed, the complaint
does not expressly allege that the contract required ICANN to follow specific policies
and procedures requiring registry of single character domain names.  
 
Even
assuming there was a contract requiring ICANN to adhere to certain policies and
procedures, the complaint does not clearly allege what policy or procedure was
violated by ICANN’s refusal to permit registration of single character domain
names.  Plaintiffs quote from ICANN’s
motion to dismiss in a federal lawsuit filed in 2011.  (See Complaint, ¶ 24.)  Even accepting these representations for
pleading purposes, none of the quoted language evidences a policy of allowing
single character domain names. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel focuses on certain language as follows:
 
-       
“[ICANN]
does not participate in any market, and its Bylaws expressly forbid it from participating
in any of the markets.”
 
-       
“[T]here
are no restrictions as to who can acquire a domain name subscription in ‘unsponsored’
TLDs.”
 
-       
“ICANN [has]
the authority and responsibility to coordinate the DNS in the public interest
by, among other things, promoting competition and consumer choice in the DNS marketplace.”
 
-       
“The Corporation
shall operate for the benefit of the Internet Community . . . through open and
transparent processes that enable competition and open entry in
Internet-related markets.”
 
-       
“ICANN
shall not act as a Domain Name System Registry or Registrar or Internet
Protocol Address Registry in competition with entities affected by the policies
of ICANN.”
 
-       
“ICANN’s
Bylaws prohibit it from operating as an Internet registry or registrar.  ICANN does not sell anything or make
anything; its functions are noncommercial and in support of the public
interest.”
 
-       
“[O]ne of
ICANN’s core values in support of its mission is to create competition within
the DNS.”  
 
-       
“ICANN
shall not act as a domain name Registry or Registrar or IP Address Registry in
competition with entities affected by the plan developed under this Agreement.
 
-       
“Neither
party . . . shall act unjustifiably or arbitrarily.”
 
(Complaint, ¶ 24.)  None of these sections (or any other language
quoted from ICANN’s motion to dismiss) establishes a policy that ICANN will
approve a single character domain name. 
Plaintiffs cite a “Final Report Introduction of New Generic Top-Level
Domains” with certain recommendations from 2007.  (Id., ¶ 37.) 
One of the recommendations states: “In future gTLDS we recommend that
single letters and single digits be available at the second (and third level if
applicable.”)  (Ibid.)  This is not a policy; it is merely a
recommendation from 2007.  Plaintiffs
cite a variety of public statements by various officers, but none is a
representation that ICANN will permit registration of single registration
domain names.  Simply, the complaint does
not clearly identify a policy requiring ICANN to permit registration of single
character domain names.  Accordingly, the
Court sustains the demurrer to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action.   
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to
the first cause of action because this matter is not suitable for declaratory
relief.  (See
Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California Ins.
Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.)  
 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
 
(General of America Ins. Co.
v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) 
In this case, the declaratory relief claim is duplicative of the contractual
claims.  The Court has discretion to
decline to issue a declaratory judgment under these circumstances.  (See AICCO, Inc. v. Insurance Company of
North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579, 590.) 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to the first cause of action.  
 
            The
Court sustains the demurrer to the sixth cause of action—negligence—because the
complaint does not allege a duty.  Nor
could Plaintiffs allege a duty under these circumstances.  In the absence of a duty, there can be no
claim for negligence.  
 
            The
Court sustains the demurrer to the seventh cause of action, fraudulent inducement.  Plaintiff must allege fraud with
particularity.  “This means: (1) general
pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and
specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not
usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any material
respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  The elements of
promissory fraud are as follows: (1) Defendant made a misrepresentation, i.e.,
a false promise; (2) Defendant knew the promise was false when it was made; (3)
Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiff, i.e., induce Plaintiff’s reliance on
the false promise; (4) Plaintiff relied on the false promise and the reliance
was justifiable; and (5) Plaintiff was damaged. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  The complaint does not satisfy this
standard.  Plaintiffs’ theory is that they
purchased a number of single character domain names based upon ICANN’s alleged representation
(i.e., its public policy and public statements) of permitting such domain names.  While this may be a viable theory, as
discussed, the complaint does not clearly allege that ICANN promised Plaintiffs
that they could, in fact, register single character domain names.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained.
 
            Finally,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the unfair competition claim under Business and
Professions Code section 17200.  This claim
appears to be derivative of the fraudulent inducement claim.   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer.
 
            2.         The Court grants leave to amend with
respect to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventh causes of action.
 
            3.         The Court denies leave to amend with
respect to the first cause of action (declaratory judgment) and the sixth cause
of action (negligence) as no amendment would resolve the defects.
 
            4.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall file a first
amended complaint within thirty (30) days.
 
            5.         The Court continues the case management
conference to April 22, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
            6.         Defendant may notice any responsive
pleading for hearing at the case management conference.
 
            7.         Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 