  Case Number:  23VECV04833    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  W J. A. vs BLUE
CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS
 
motion for
trial preference
 
Date of Hearing:        September
30, 2024                         Trial Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04833
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
J.A., a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Michael Allen
Responding Party:     Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff J.A., a minor by and through his
Guardian ad Litem, and Michael Allen filed a complaint against Defendant Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross for 1. Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 2. Breach of Contract; and 3. Violations of
Business & Professions Code Section 17200. Plaintiff alleges this action
arises out of Anthem’s repeated wrongful and bad faith denials of inpatient
hospital admission so that J.A. can have medically necessary brachial plexus
(nerve repair) surgery. Plaintiff alleges J.A.’s surgery was cancelled because
Anthem denied the required inpatient hospital admission in the intensive care
unit (ICU) required for his surgery. As of the date of this complaint, J.A. is
still waiting to have surgery.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference
is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff J.A., a minor, by and through
his Guardian ad Litem, Michael Allen moves the court for an order granting
trial preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36 and California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1335. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Plaintiff
is a minor under the age of 14 and interests of justice will be served by
granting preference.
 
“A civil action to recover damages for
wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the
motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court
finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a
whole.”  (CCP § 36(b).)  
 
“Unless the court otherwise orders: (1)
A party may file and serve a motion for preference supported by a declaration
of the moving party that all essential parties have been served with process or
have appeared. . . . (f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference, the
court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date. . .
.” (CCP  § 36(c).) 
 
Granting a trial preference is
mandatory where a party satisfies Code of Civil Procedure section 36
subdivision (b), which is interpreted the same manner as subdivision (a)
regarding litigants over the age of 70 with health conditions.  (Peters
v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224.)  “Failure to
complete discovery or other pretrial matters does not affect the absolute
substantive right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify for
preference . . . The express legislative mandate for trial preference is a
substantive public policy concern which [supersedes] such
considerations.”  (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d
1082, 1086-1087.)  “Where a party meets the requisite standard for
calendar preference . . ., preference must be granted. No weighing of interests
is involved.”  (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529,
535.) 
 
Plaintiff argues J.A. was born in 2018
and he is currently five and a half years old, therefore satisfying Code of
Civil Procedure section 36(b). Plaintiff further argues it cannot be said that J.A.
“does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole” as he is the sole
plaintiff in this case and the outcome of this case directly affects his
physical and emotional health and well-being. J.A.  requires the surgery if he were to ever have
full function of his right shoulder, arm, elbow, wrist and hand and the delay
in surgery has affected his well-being and has postponed his recovery,
including physical and occupational therapy to learn and train his brain to use
his right arm. As a result, a preferential trial date and earlier adjudication
of this case would ensure that there is no further delay occasioned by a
protracted litigation. Plaintiff also argues that the court has discretion to
grant this motion in the interests of justice pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 36(e). Plaintiff contends there is an interest in ensuring
that children receive access to the court and resolution of their claims in a
time-sensitive manner. 
 
In opposition, Anthem argues Section
36(b) does not apply since they apply only to “wrongful death” or “personal
injury” actions, whereas this action involves breach of contract/insurance
coverage. Consistent with this contention, Plaintiff’s Civil Cover Sheet
identifies this case as an “insurance dispute”, not a “personal injury” action.
Moreover, the California Supreme Court itself has expressly held that “[a]n
action against an insurance company to recover policy benefits is not an action
to recover ‘damages for personal injury’ but rather damages for breach of
contract.” (Pilimai v. Farmers Ins. Exchange Co. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 133,
146.) In light of the clear statutory language and California Supreme Court
authority, Anthem contends this court should reject Plaintiff’s request. Anthem
also argues the “interests of justice” would not be served by a trial
preference. Specifically, Anthem never denied coverage for the procedure, the
procedure does not require pre-approval by Anthem, observational care at the
hospital following the procedure has always been available to Plaintiff,
Plaintiff’s treating physician has never treated the need for the procedure as
urgent as well as concluded it would be better if Plaintiff had the procedure
when he is older, and there is still no clear indication as to when Plaintiff’s
treating physician intends to perform the procedure. As such, any claim that
Plaintiff’s medically necessary procedure will continue to be delayed and J.A.
will continue to suffer harm is misleading. Moreover, Anthem will be prejudiced
by an accelerated trial schedule. Anthem is having difficulty working with
providers and physicians obtaining records. 
 
The court finds trial preference
mandatory. Although this action is one based on bad faith, the bad faith claim
is based in tort. Section 36(b) explicitly provides a civil action to recover damages
for … personal injury. Here, Plaintiff alleges as a result of the wrongful
conduct by Anthem, Plaintiff has suffered physical injury.  As noted by Plaintiff “bad faith” “liability
originated in a series of landmark decisions in which California courts
developed the concept that insurers are bound by an implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing with the insured, breach of which may constitute a tort
and permit recovery of tort damages.” (B. Capsule History of Insurance “Bad
Faith” Cases, California Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 12A-B.)
Moreover, in Pilimai v. Farmers Ins. Exchange Co. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 133
(cited by Anthem), the court based its decision within the meaning of Civil
Code section 3291 – prejudgment interest and Code of Civil Procedure section
998 offers. This is not the case here. Plaintiff is looking for trial
preference. Lastly, there is no doubt J.A. has a substantial interest in in the
case as whole. The court need not address whether the “interests of justice”
would be served under Section 36(e). 
 
Accordingly, the motion for trial
preference is GRANTED. 