  Case Number:  23PSCV00937    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment is DENIED
without prejudice.  
 
Background
 
This case arises from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff Joshua Anthony Sotelo filed suit
against Defendants Kevin Barragan and Iridian G Magallon Quintero for:[1] 1.    
Negligence 2.    
Driving While Intoxicated
 
On August 16, 2023, default was entered against Barragan.
That same day, Plaintiff filed the instant application. 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks judgment against Defendant Barragan in the
amount of $194,599.00, which is broken down as follows: $194, 123.00 in
damages, $475.00 in costs, and $1.00 in punitive damages. 
 
The court directs Plaintiff to Code of Civil Procedure section 585 as most if not
all of the requirements for entry of default judgment have not been satisfied. The statute permits entry of a
judgment after a Defendant has failed to timely answer after being properly
served. A party seeking judgment on the default by the Court must file a
Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations
or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest
computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a
proposed form of judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment
is not sought; (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not
sought or an application for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a
showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a
request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the
parties. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1800.)
 
Here, notably, Plaintiff has (i) offered no evidence
in support of damages and (ii) not dismissed Doe Defendants and Magallon.
Additionally, as this is a personal injury case, Plaintiff has not complied
with CCP section
425.11 (regarding statement of damages). 
 
Conclusion
 
While Defendant Barragan’s failure to
respond to the complaint has proved liability, Plaintiff has failed to prove
damages, which is Plaintiff’s burden is seeking default judgment. Based on the
foregoing, the application for default judgment is denied without prejudice. 
 
 


