 Case Number:  23STCV12612    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



YESENIA REYES, VERONICA ROMERO and SAM BARRAD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SOUTH CORD HOLDINGS, LLC dba CATALYST CANNABIS CO.; and DOES 1
  through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV12612
 Hearing Date:   October
  1, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Joint Motion of Defendants South Cord Holdings LLC, 562 Discount Med,
  Inc., 316 Florence Holdings, LLC, Ryan Cameron Rayburn Collective, Inc.,
  Portlock Holdings LLC, and South Cord Management LLC to Compel Arbitration Against
  Plaintiff Veronica Romero [RES
  ID # 3322]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Yesenia Reyes, Veronica
Romero, and Sam Barrad (collectively, Plaintiffs) sue Defendants South Cord
Holdings, LLC dba Catalyst Cannabis (SCH), Doe 1 562 Discount Med, Inc., Doe 2 316
Florence Holdings, LLC, Doe 3 Ryan Cameron Rayburn Collective, Inc., Doe 4 Portlock
Holdings, LLC, and Doe 5 South Cord Management, LLC, (collectively, Defendants)
and DOES 6 through 10, inclusive, pursuant to a September 13, 2024 First
Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Harassment, (2) Gender
Discrimination, (3) Retaliation, (4) Retaliation (Labor Code § 1102.5), (5)
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of Employee, (6) Failure to Prevent
Harassment and/or Discrimination, and (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy. 
The claims arise from allegations
that in their employment with SCH, Plaintiffs experienced the above statutory
and tortious violations. 
B. Prior Arbitration History
On July 11, 2023, SCH moved to
compel arbitration pursuant to (1) a collective bargaining agreement (CBA)
allegedly covering all plaintiffs and (2) an arbitration agreement signed by
Plaintiff Reyes and specific as to her alone.  
The Court granted the motion to
compel arbitration as to Reyes but denied the motion as to Romero and Barrad. The
Court found that while the CBA did not provide grounds to compel arbitration
against the Plaintiffs, there was an agreement to arbitrate between Reyes and SCH.
(see 9/19/23 Minute Order) 
On November 15, 2023, SCH made a
renewed motion to compel arbitration against Plaintiff Romero pursuant to an
arbitration agreement signed by Romero. 
The Court denied the motion on the
grounds that SCH did not provide a satisfactory explanation for why the agreement,
purportedly signed on August 21, 2021, was not included as part of the July 11,
2023 motion to compel arbitration. (See 1/24/2024 Minute Order.) 
 
C. Motion Before the Court
On August 6, 2024 Defendants filed
the instant joint motion to compel arbitration against Romero. 
On September 17, 2024 Romero
opposed the motion. 
On September 19, 2024 Defendants
filed a joint reply. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
A party to an arbitration agreement
may seek a court order compelling the parties to arbitrate a dispute covered by
the agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Absent a viable defense to
enforcement, the court must grant the motion if it determines there is an
agreement to arbitrate that has not been rescinded. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; see also Cinel v. Barna (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1389
[“Under section 1281.2, the court shall order a matter to arbitration if it
determines that there is an agreement to arbitrate and (1) the agreement has
not been waived or (2) the agreement has not been revoked”].) Even where the
FAA governs the interpretation of arbitration clauses, California law governs
whether an arbitration agreement has been formed in the first instance. (Baker
v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.)  
The party seeking arbitration has
the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence[.]” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “Once that burden is satisfied, the party
opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense
to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, at
p. 842.) “A party required to prove something by a preponderance of the
evidence ‘need prove only that it is more likely to be true than not true.’
[Citation.] Preponderance of the evidence means ‘“that the evidence on one side
outweighs, preponderates over, is more than, the evidence on the other side,
not necessarily in number of witnesses or quantity, but in its effect on those
to whom it is addressed.”’ [Citations.] In other words, the term refers to
‘evidence that has more convincing force than that opposed to it.’
[Citations.]” (People ex rel. Brown v. Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1549, 1567.) 
“California has a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a
dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital
v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong
policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld
unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Id.
[internal quotations omitted].) Generally, thus, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
Nonetheless, California’s policy in favor of arbitration does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation holding that the contractual
terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to the contract
can be ordered to arbitration. (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
175, 185.)
B. Analysis
“Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) 
In support of their motion,
Defendants attach the Arbitration Agreement signed by Romero on August 20,
2021. (Halushka Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) In relevant portion, the Arbitration
Agreement states: 
“1. Agreement to Arbitrate. I and
SCH agree to submit all ‘Claims’ as defined below to binding individual
arbitration before a neutral arbitrator (the ‘Arbitrator’). Arbitration of
Claims covered by this Agreement is the sole and exclusive method of resolving
any and all Claims.
2. Definition of Claims: ‘Claim(s)’
means any claim, dispute, or controversy regarding contracts, personal
injuries, torts, discrimination and harassment (including matters such as race,
color, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, religion, national origin, age,
disability or veteran status, all as defined by applicable laws), wages,
compensation, benefits, and claims under any federal, state, city or county
laws, statutes, regulations or ordinances between Employee and SCH its parent,
subsidiaries, and affiliated corporations and entities, successors and assigns,
and their present and former officers, directors, agents, representatives and
employees (collectively ‘Company’) including, but not limited to, any and all
claims that arose at any time before or after execution of this Agreement
relating in any way to, the employment of Employee, payment of wages and the
termination of that employment. . . .” (Halushka Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A, ¶¶ 1-2.)
In the FAC, Romero asserts that
each of the Defendants (SCH, 562 Discount Med, Inc., 316 Florence Holdings,
LLC, Ryan Cameron Rayburn Collective, Inc., Portlock Holdings, LLC, and South
Cord Management, LLC) were joint employers, working in concert with each other,
and that the acts of each Defendant are legally attributable to the other
Defendants. (FAC ¶ 6.) (Augustini Decl., p. 5., Ex. D.) The Defendants state
that each of the Doe Defendants are either wholly owned by SCH or are corporate
affiliates of SCH. (Mot. p. 5; Halushka Decl. ¶ 4.)
Defendants argue that because the
Defendants are collectively defined as the “Company” in the Arbitration
Agreement, all of Romero’s claims and causes of action against them must be
arbitrated. (Mot. p. 7.) Defendants argue that to deny arbitration to SCH “would
give rise to an odd and potentially unjust procedural posture whereby SCH – who
is being sued as a joint employer along with entities that actually employed
Romero – would be forced to defend such claims in Court while the actual
employing entities would be defending against those same claims in arbitration.”
(Mot. p. 10:16-19.) The Defendants further argue that there is a risk for
inconsistent determinations because the Doe Defendants are indispensable
parties to any claims against SCH. (Mot. p. 10.) 
In opposition, Romero does not
substantively respond to the arguments Defendant’s make in their motion, but
rather argues that the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act (EFAA) bars arbitration of her claims. In the FAC, Romero states
that she was hired by SCH around February 2021 and experienced sexual
harassment and gender discrimination throughout her employment, leading to her
constructive termination on January 11, 2022. (FAC ¶¶ 18-20.) She argues that
her cause of action accrued when the CRD Complaint and Right to Sue letter in
this case were filed in February 2023, and thus her claims are not arbitrable
under the EFAA. (Opp. pp. 2-3.) 
While a cause of action typically
accrues when it is complete with all of its elements, a cause of action will at
times be deemed to accrue at a later date, such as when the plaintiff did not
discover and had no occasion to discover the cause of action until that later
date, when the defendant fraudulently concealed the existence of a possible
claim until that later date, or when the defendant committed multiple wrongs
that ended on that later date. (Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los
Angeles (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 953, 961.)
The EFAA was enacted on March 3,
2022 and applies to sexual assault and harassment claims that accrued on or
after the Act’s enactment. (Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021, Pub.L. No. 117-90 (Mar. 3, 2022) 136 Stat. 26,
28 [“This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply with respect to
any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment
of this Act”]; see Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 24, 2023,
No. 22 Civ. 6669 (PAE)) __F.Supp.3d__ [2023 WL 2216173 *1, *10] [Noting “[t]he
EFAA applies only to claims that accrued on or after March 3, 2022, the day
President Biden signed the EFAA into law; it does not have retroactive effect,”
and citing to a number of U.S. District Court decisions to this effect]; see
also Arbitration Reply, p. 4 [citing to Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc.].)
Thus, Romero’s cause of action arose
prior to the EFAA’s enactment and because the EFAA is not retroactive, her
claims are subject to the Arbitration Agreement. 
Allowing Romero to litigate her
claims against SCH while simultaneously arbitrating the same claims against the
Co-Defendants would likely result in prejudice to SCH and inconsistent
determinations. 
However, the Court will sever the
portion of the Arbitration Agreement in paragraph 7 relating to payment of
initiation fees by Romero and the parties will be governed instead by
applicable law.
Accordingly, the Defendants motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
III. Conclusion
The Joint Motion of Defendants South Cord Holdings LLC, 562 Discount Med,
Inc., 316 Florence Holdings, LLC, Ryan Cameron Rayburn Collective, Inc.,
Portlock Holdings LLC, and South Cord Management LLC to Compel Arbitration
Against Plaintiff Veronica Romero is GRANTED. 
The Court however, will sever that portion of Paragraph 7 of the Arbitration
Agreement relating to the payment of initiation fees by Romero and the parties
will be governed instead by applicable law.