  Case Number:  22STCV05694    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  55 Tentative on Plaintiff's MILPlaintiff’s MIL Nos. 1-6
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 1 -The motion in limine is not specific enough
for the Court to make a meaningful order. Instead of identifying the specific
evidence that the motion seeks to exclude, this motion in limine amounts to
little more than a restatement of the law and general legal principles.  The moving party fails to demonstrate that
there are no circumstances which would permit admission of this evidence.  The Court declines to rule on this motion in
limine in a vacuum.  Accordingly, the
motion in limine is DENIED.  The moving
party may at trial assert an objection to the introduction of specific evidence
if and when this issue arises.
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 2 - This is not a proper motion in
limine insofar as it seeks a pretrial ruling that certain evidence is relevant
(and presumably, admissible) under all circumstances.  As with all evidence, the moving party will
have to lay an adequate foundation at trial prior to its admission.  The motion in limine is DENIED without
prejudice for the moving party to offer this evidence at trial after laying an
adequate foundation.
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 3- This is not a motion in limine as it
does not seek exclusion or limitation of any evidence. Rather, the moving party
seeks an order precluding Defendant from making certain arguments or from
unnamed witnesses providing certain testimony based on documents not produced
in discovery.  The motion in limine here is
not specific enough for the Court to make a meaningful order.  The motion fails to identify what specific
evidence the moving party seeks to exclude, for example, any document listed on
Defendant’s exhibit list. The motion is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 4 is deferred because the parties have
stipulated for the Brandt fees to be determined in a bench trial after the
conclusion of the jury trial. 
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 5 - This is not a proper motion in
limine insofar as it seeks a pretrial ruling that certain testimony is admissible
under all circumstances.  As with all
evidence, the moving party will have to lay an adequate foundation at trial prior
to its admission.  The motion in limine is
DENIED without prejudice for the moving party to offer this evidence at trial
after laying an adequate foundation.
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 6 This is not a proper motion in limine insofar
as it seeks a pretrial ruling that certain statements made in pleadings are
judicial admissions that should be read to the jury.  The moving party will have to lay an adequate
foundation at trial for certain documents to be admitted and establish any
judicial admissions. The motion in limine is DENIED without prejudice for the
moving party to offer this evidence at trial after laying an adequate
foundation.