  Case Number:  21STCV25467    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Pinto v. Visconti,
Case No. 21STCV25467
Hearing Date March
5, 2024 
Plaintiff Pinto’s Motion
to Sanction Defendant Visconti’s Former Attorney Murphy (UNOPPOSED) 
 
Plaintiff Pinto
moves to sanction defendant Visconti’s former attorney George E. Murphy,
requesting attorney’s fees of $73,083. He argues Murphy filed multiple improper,
bad-faith motions for the sole purpose of delaying the court’s ruling on
Pinto’s motion to declare Visconti a vexatious litigant and for an order
requiring Visconti to post a security bond or dismiss her cross-complaint. Plaintiff
provides a proof of service on Visconti, who is currently incarcerated, and Murphy,
who was served on January 25, 2024, via US mail and electronic service.
 
A trial court may
order a party, the party’s attorney or both to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or
tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §128.5. “Sanctions are warranted
only if the moving party meets its burden of proving that the opposing party’s
action or tactic was (1) totally and completely without merit, measured by the
objective, ‘reasonable attorney’ standard, or (2) motivated solely by an intention
to harass or cause unnecessary delay[.]” Wallis v. PHL Assoc., Inc. (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 882, 893. 
 
As set forth in Pinto’s
motion, between February 3, 2023 and December 4, 2023, Mr. Murphy filed six
motions to disqualify Judge Mandel and two removals to federal court. These
filings required the court to repeatedly delay a final ruling on Pinto’s motion
to declare Visconti a vexatious litigant and for an order to post a bond or
dismiss her cross-complaint, originally scheduled for March 15, 2023 and
continued for the first time on the court’s own motion to March 21, 2023. Motion
at pg. 3, Khodadian decl. ¶¶2-3. 
 
Murphy filed
motions to disqualify the court on March 20, 2023, March 21, 2023, June 23,
2023, July 11, 2023, July 13, 2023 and July 18, 2023. Khodadian decl. exhs. 1,
2, 12, 20. None of the motions to disqualify was successful, and all of them
were based on substantively identical allegations of bias. No new facts, law or
circumstances justified repeated reassertion of arguments that had already been
considered and rejected. This was objectively unreasonable, amounting to frivolous
conduct for the purpose of delay and harassment. 
 
The motions were
frequently filed the day before or the day of scheduled vexatious litigant
evidentiary hearings, resulting in that hearing’s repeated continuance. This further
suggests the motions were improperly motivated. E.g. Khodadian decl. exhs. 1, 2,
12. The totality of the record indicates Murphy filed these motions not out of
a good faith belief that they had legal merit but to forestall a hearing that
might result in an adverse ruling against his client.  
 
On March 21, 2023 Murphy
filed a notice of removal to federal court, alleging diversity jurisdiction.
Ten days later he filed a request to dismiss the federal action, resulting in a
remand back to state court on April 3, 2023. Khodadian decl. exh. 7. That the removal
was filed on March 21— the same day the vexatious litigant hearing was first scheduled
– then remanded on plaintiff’s own request after the hearing was continued suggests
it was filed solely for the purpose of delay. 
 
A second notice of
removal was filed July 27, 2023. Id. Exh. 27. The federal court remanded the
action back to state court, finding the removal deficient and untimely. Oct.
10, 2023 Order Re: Plaintiff Albert Gregory Pinto Motion to Remand in Case No.
CV-23-6078-DMG, pg. 2. Neither notice of removal had merit. Similar to the
above-stated rationale, the evidence suggests they were filed solely to delay a
hearing on the vexatious litigant motion. 
 
Finally, the
record reflects multiple instances where Murphy, either immediately before a
scheduled hearing or a few days earlier, informed the court he was unable to
appear for the hearing due to a vacation or because he was busy with other
litigation. E.g. Khodadian decl. ¶¶ 13, 18, 23. An attorney’s unavailability,
without more, does not show bad faith. But when viewed in the context of
repeated filings of frivolous motions to disqualify and notices of removal, it
shows a pattern of delay by Murphy, which caused a hearing originally scheduled
for February 2023 to be forestalled until December 2023. 
 
Murphy’s repeated
renewal of previously-denied motions, coupled with the fact that the motions actually
resulted in repeated delays and continuances, caused the court to conclude that
the motions were frivolous, filed for the purpose of delaying an order on Pinto’s
bond/vexatious litigant motions. 
 
Murphy does not
oppose this motion for sanctions, and he has never clearly articulated a
good-faith reason for the multiple attempts to remove this case to federal
court or repeated renewals of a previously-denied motion to disqualify. These
facts show both objective unreasonableness and subjective bad faith, justifying
an award of attorney’s fees under Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §128.5. The motion is
GRANTED.
 
Pinto is entitled to reasonable fees incurred because
of Murphy’s bad-faith delay tactics. He requests $73,083 ($505/hour for 144.6
hours of work, plus a $60 filing fee). Billing records submitted
do not provide a sufficient basis for the court to determine a reasonable
award. Many tasks identified are related to Pinto’s motion to deem Visconti a
vexatious litigant and Murphy’s/Visconti’s reasonable attempts to oppose that
motion on the merits, rather than the bad-faith attempts to delay a hearing.
E.g. Khodadian Decl. Exh. 30 5/19/2023 entry, 5/22/2023 entry, 6/13/2023 entry,
6/15/2023 entry. 
Additionally, many
entries refer to client calls. It is not clear what the subject matter of these
calls were, nor whether they were caused by Murphy’s bad-faith tactics.
Finally, the record is replete with block-billed entries, which list multiple
tasks together preventing the court from determining how much time was spent on
each task and whether the time was reasonable. The award will not include such
entries. 
 
Fees for attorney
time at court hearings at which the court was unable to hear the motions due to
the motions to remove and/or disqualify are recoverable. Pleadings generated in
response to those multiple motions are recoverable. Preparation of the motion
to declare defendant a vexatious litigant is not recoverable. The court
requests counsel for Pinto to provide a declaration and supporting time records
regarding the fees sought due solely due to the bad-faith delay. 