 Case Number:  24VECV01561    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  T   SEGUNDO V GM 24VECV01561             [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant General Motors, LLC’s Demurrer to  the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.    Defendant  General Motors, LLC’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to  the request for punitive damages in the first, second, third, and fourth causes  of action; and is DENIED as to the request for punitive damages in the fifth  cause of action.    Defendant  General Motors, LLC is ORDERED to file an Answer within 20 days. Introduction               Defendant General Motors,  LLC (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Erick Reyes Segundo’s (Plaintiff) First  Amended Complaint (FAC).  The demurrer  placed into issue the fifth cause of action (COA) for fraud-concealment.  The motion to strike seeks to strike the  request for punitive damages.               Discussion              Defendant argued that the  concealment COA failed to allege the claim with specificity – the identity of  the individuals concealing the material facts; their authority to speak; their  knowledge of the defects; interactions with Defendant; or an intent to induce  reliance.  However, the specificity  requirement applies to claims based upon affirmative misrepresentations and not  to concealment fraud claims. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System  Planning Assn. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  Defendant’s first argument as to specificity  is unpersuasive.             Defendant then argued that there are  insufficient facts as to a duty to disclose because there are no facts to  allege a fiduciary relationship or a transaction involving “direct  dealings”.  It is undisputable that a manufacturer  of a vehicle and the purchaser of a vehicle are not in a fiduciary  relationship.  A duty to disclose can  arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of  the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the material fact; or  (3) the defendant made partial representations while also suppressing the  material fact. (Bigler Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,  311.)  Plaintiff expressly alleged that  Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the transmission defect.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant “issued  various internal technical bulletins to its dealers (not consumers) concerning  the Transmission Defect.”  (FAC pars. 63,  fn. 5, 68, 69, fn. 6.)  Plaintiff cited  to an “August 2020 Technical Service Bulletin (“TSB”) designed to address harsh  first shifts of the day notes that “[r]eplacing transmission components or  complete assemblies will not improve the condition.”  (Id.)   With these facts, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged specific facts to show  Defendant’s exclusive knowledge of the defect and thus sufficiently alleged a  duty to disclose.  Defendant’s argument  as to the duty to disclose element is unpersuasive. The  demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED.   Defendant  argued that the request for punitive damages is improperly alleged under the  first four COAs under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (SBA).  It is undisputed that the statute does not  expressly include punitive damages as a remedy for violation of the SBA.  Civil penalty under the SBA is not the same  as punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294.   (Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries,  Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228.)   Plaintiff cited to several federal cases to assert that punitive damages  per Civil Code, section 3294, are allowed under the SBA.  However, the federal cases do not support  Plaintiff’s contention.  At most, the  federal cases provide that the civil penalty provision of the SBA is akin  to punitive damages or is punitive in nature.   Being described as punitive in nature is not the same as punitive  damages per Civil Code, section 3294.  It  would appear that Plaintiff is aware of the distinction because the Complaint’s  prayer separately requests civil penalties under Civil Code section 1794(c) or  (e).  (Compl. pg. 16:4.)  Punitive damages are not a permitted remedy  under the SBA.  Defendant’s argument is  persuasive. The  motion to strike punitive damages from the first four COAs for SBA violations  is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   As  to the request for punitive damages under the fifth COA for concealment fraud,  Defendant argued that the request failed to plead sufficient facts to support  malice, oppression, or fraud.  However,  the concealment fraud COA is sufficiently alleged, despite Defendant’s  contention otherwise.  Because the  concealment fraud COA is sufficiently alleged, Plaintiff sufficiently pled a  fraud, as defined under Civil Code, section 3294(c)(3).  As reviewed above in the analysis to the  demurrer, specific fact pleading (i.e., who, what, when, and where) is not  applicable to concealment claims.  The  fraud allegations are seen to be sufficiently pled to support the request for  punitive damages. Defendant  further argued that punitive damages are inapplicable to contract-based  claims.  However, the COA is a for the  tort of fraud and the contract/warranty claim is separate from the fraud COA.  Defendant’s contract-based argument is  unpersuasive. The  motion to strike punitive damages from the fifth COA for fraud is DENIED.   IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.