  Case Number:  23VECV00647    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  T TARZANA V WORK  23VECV000647             [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Vincent Work’s Motion to Dismiss is  DENIED. Defendant  Vincent Work’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but only as to the  existence of the documents and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute. Introduction               Defendant Vincent Work  (Defendant) moved to dismiss Plaintiff Tarzana Property LLC’s (Plaintiff)  Complaint.                Procedure             Despite Plaintiff’s contention  otherwise, the Court’s prior ruling on Defendant’s motion for summary  adjudication (MSA) heard on October 7, 2024 did not address the merits of the  legal issues presented in the instant motion.   (See Court’s Minute Order of October 7, 2024.)  Because this is the Court’s first review of  the legal issues presented, Plaintiff’s argument that the instant motion is really  an improper motion for reconsideration is unpersuasive. Plaintiff  argued that the instant motion is an improperly filed/served MSA.  The Court did not view the instant motion as  an MSA and reviewed the motion as a motion to dismiss.              Discussion              Defendant argued that the Complaint  should be dismissed because Plaintiff lacks capacity to sue.  Preliminarily, Defendant failed to cite to  any proper legal authority authorizing dismissal of the action.  Defendant cited to Code of Civil Procedure,  sections 430.10(b) and (c) and Business and Professions Code, section 17918 to  support the contention that the Court is authorized to dismiss the action.  However, neither statute is a dismissal  statute.  Code of Civil Procedure,  section 430.10 only provides grounds or objection by way of demurrer or  answer.  The two grounds cited by  Defendant are for lack of legal capacity to sue and another action pending.  These two grounds are to be asserted in a  demurrer or answer and not proper for a motion to dismiss.  Further, Business and Professions Code,  section 17918 prohibits a person from filing an action under a fictitious  business name until a fictitious business name statement is filed.  Plaintiff is not asserting the instant action  under a fictitious business name.   Plaintiff filed the action in its own name.  Because Defendant failed to present any legal  authority for the Court to dismiss the action, there is good cause to deny the  motion outright.             Even if the legal authority  presented by Defendant authorized the Court to dismiss the action, Plaintiff  confuses the legal theories of capacity and standing.  Plaintiff is suing in its own name as the  real party in interest (i.e., the owner/landlord of the property at issue).  Plaintiff, as a corporate entity, has  capacity to sue.  (Corp. Code, sec.  207.)  Defendant failed to present any  facts/evidence to show Plaintiff’s lack of capacity (i.e., suspended or  dissolved status).  Defendant’s only  argument is that Plaintiff’s alleged managing member was not the managing  member at the time the action was filed and Plaintiff was not authorized to  file the instant action (i.e., an ultra vires act).  However, Defendant, as a non-member of  Plaintiff, lacks any standing to argue that Plaintiff’s action is an ultra  vires act.  Ultra vires is not  an accepted defense to an action between a corporate entity and a third party,  “except in a proceeding (1) by a shareholder or the state to enjoin the doing  or continuation of unauthorized business by the corporation or its officers, or  both, in cases where third parties have not acquired rights thereby, or (2) to  dissolve the corporation or (3) by the corporation or by a shareholder suing in  a representative suit against the officers or directors of the corporation for  violation of their authority.”  (Corp.  Code, sec. 208.)  None of these  exceptions apply to the instant action.   Defendant’s assertion of the ultra vires defense is without  merit.             Defendant failed to meet its initial  burden as the moving party.  Because  Defendant failed to meet its burden, the motion is unpersuasive.             The motion to dismiss is DENIED.             IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE._____________________RULINGS FOR FINAL STATUS  CONFERENCEPLAINTIFF'S MOTION IN LIMINE  (MIL) #1To exclude expert witness  testimony from non designated experts: GRANTPlaintiff did expert demand.  Defendant did not designate an expert. Defendant's witnesses and defendant can  testify to their percipient knowledge but not as to any expert opinions.MIL #2To exclude evidence not produced  in discovery: GRANT as to any documents which should have been produced  pursuant to court order of 9/25/2024 (Mr. Work was ordered to produce the  documents in categories nos. 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 by email or personal  delivery no later than 10/7/2024 at noon) but were not.At this point defendant has not  identified any trial documentsREQUEST NO. 1:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between YOU and Ronald Reinsdorf  RELATED TO the PROPERTY from May 2016 to thePresent.REQUEST NO. 2: All COMMUNICATIONS,  including but not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between YOU and Ronald Reinsdorf  RELATED TO the UD LAWSUIT from December 2022 tothe Present.REQUEST NO. 3:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between YOU and Ronald Reinsdorf  RELATED TO the BREACH OF LEASE LAWSUIT fromFebruary 2023 to the Present.REQUEST NO. 9:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between YOU and Natalie Wizman at  NES Property Services, Inc. in YOUR possession, custodyor control which RELATE TO the  PROPERTY from August 2023 to the Present.REQUEST NO. 10:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between YOU and Natalie Wizman at  NES Property Services, Inc. in YOUR possession, custodyor control which RELATE TO the UD  LAWSUIT from December 2022 to the Present.REQUEST NO. 11:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between YOU and Natalie Wizman at  NES Property Services, Inc. in YOUR possession, custodyor control which RELATE TO the  BREACH OF LEASE LAWSUIT from February 2023 to thePresent.REQUEST NO. 12:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between Ronald Reinsdorf and  Natalie Wizman at NES Property Services, Inc. in YOURpossession, custody or control  which RELATE TO the PROPERTY from February 2023 to thePresent.REQUEST NO. 13:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between Ronald Reinsdorf and  Natalie Wizman at NES Property Services, Inc. in YOURpossession, custody or control  which RELATE TO the UD LAWSUIT from December 2022 tothe Present.REQUEST NO. 14:All COMMUNICATIONS, including but  not limited to emails, text messages, letters, etc.between Ronald Reinsdorf and  Natalie Wizman at NES Property Services, Inc. in YOURpossession, custody or control  which RELATE TO the BREACH OF LEASE LAWSUIT fromFebruary 2023 to the Present. MIL #3Improper character evidence  concerning Sheri Reinsdorf: GRANT. Alleged false reporting of childcare hours  and videos of Sheri Reinsdorf taken by Ronald Reinsdorf are not allowed.   Testimony or questions concerning these issues are barred.  The issues of  children and issues of the marriage unrelated to this property are not  relevant, prejudicial, and not admissible.Statement of the Case to  be read to the juryThe statement is supposed to be a  neutral explanation of the case.  Here the court approves the Plaintiff’s  statement of the case which is neutral.  The court denies defendant’s  statement as argumentative.On the issue of the ownership  of the house, that is not an issue in this case.  The court will not allow the case to devolve  into testimony about the marital disputes between Ronald and Sheri Reinsdorf,  neither of whom are parties to this lawsuit.  As indicated in the court’s  decision on the motion to dismiss, Plaintiff confuses the legal theories of  capacity and standing.  Plaintiff is suing in its own name as the real  party in interest (i.e., the owner/landlord of the property at issue).   Plaintiff, as a corporate entity, has capacity to sue.  (Corp. Code, sec.  207.)  Defendant failed to present any facts/evidence to show Plaintiff’s  lack of capacity (i.e., suspended or dissolved status).  Defendant’s only  argument is that Plaintiff’s alleged managing member was not the managing  member at the time the action was filed and Plaintiff was not authorized to  file the instant action (i.e., an ultra vires act).  However, Defendant,  as a non-member of Plaintiff, lacks any standing to argue that Plaintiff’s  action is an ultra vires act.  Ultra vires is not an accepted defense to  an action between a corporate entity and a third party, “except in a proceeding  (1) by a shareholder or the state to enjoin the doing or continuation of  unauthorized business by the corporation or its officers, or both, in cases  where third parties have not acquired rights thereby, or (2) to dissolve the  corporation or (3) by the corporation or by a shareholder suing in a  representative suit against the officers or directors of the corporation for  violation of their authority.”  (Corp. Code, sec. 208.)  None of  these exceptions apply to the instant action.  Defendant’s assertion of  the ultra vires defense is without merit.  Accordingly, this issue is  barred at the time of the trial.Verdict FormPlaintiff requests a general  verdict.Defendant has proposed special  questions.  The questions are argumentative.  Accordingly, the court  would be inclined to grant the general verdict.The operative complaint filed  by Tarzana Property LLC, a California Limited Liability Company was filed on  2/10/2023.The operative answer was  filed on 8/21/2023 by defendant Vincent Work.  