  Case Number:  24STCV01967    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  11 Najarro (24STCV01967)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           10/25/24
Time:                          10:00
am
Moving Party:           ADEX Telecom (“ADEX” or “Defendant”)
Opposing Party:        Ulysses Najarro (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is continued.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff used to work for ADEX as a fiber technician.  He claims ADEX subjected him and other
current and former employees to multiple wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, ADEX moves to compel arbitration. 

 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  “Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)  The burden of proof rests with the petitioner.  (See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)  “Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff started working for
Defendant in October 2021.  (See Tackett
Decl., ¶ 4.)  During the onboarding
process, which took place online, Defendant claims Plaintiff e-signed Defendant’s
employment agreement, which contains an arbitration provision.  (See id. at ¶¶ 6-8.)
 
Shannon Tackett is Defendant’s
vice president.  (See id. at ¶ 1.)  Tackett describes the onboarding process this
way:
 
3. As Vice
President, I am responsible for managing operations for the Company, including
profits and losses, overall administration, account management, and workforce
management and oversight. In my role, I also conduct the onboarding process for
all new hire employees and oversee the implementation, review, and execution of
all new employment documents, agreements, and policies which are presented to
prospective and current employees. Additionally, as Vice President, I have
access to all employee personnel files and records. 
 
* * *
 
5. Prior to
beginning their employment with ADEX, all fiber technicians complete standard
onboarding paperwork. This paperwork is completed via the JobDiva platform, a
secure online applicant tracking system. The process works as follows: the new
employee provides their email address to a Company administrative assistant who
then sends the new employee’s onboarding packet to the email address provided.
The new employee then has the opportunity to review the agreements and ask any
questions they may have. Once the documents are signed, I receive notification
that they have been signed, and I review and sign the documents on behalf of
ADEX.
 
6. Mr. Najarro went
through this same onboarding process prior to the start of his employment with
the Company. Prior to beginning his employment, on October 14, 2021, Mr.
Najarro was presented with and ultimately signed an Employment Agreement (the
“Agreement”) with the Company, which includes an agreement to arbitrate any
claims or controversies relating to Mr. Najarro’s employment with the Company,
and prohibits class or collective actions under paragraph 16. . . .
 
7. In accordance
with the Company’s onboarding processes, on October 14, 2021, Mr. Najarro was
emailed the Agreement for his review prior to starting employment with the
Company. 
 
8. On October 17,
2021, at 2:11 PM, Mr. Najarro electronically signed the Agreement via JobDiva. 
 
9. On October 27,
2021, I electronically signed the Agreement on behalf of the Company. . . .
 
(Id. at ¶¶ 3, 5-9.)
 
Defendant’s employment agreement
is attached to Tackett’s declaration at exhibit A. The arbitration provision
appears in paragraph 16.  It states:
 
16) This Agreement
shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws
of the State of New York.  Any dispute or
controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement, and/or related to Employee’s
employment, that could otherwise be resolved by a court shall be resolved
through arbitration in accordance with the Employment Arbitration Rules and
Mediation Procedures of the American Arbitration Association [(“AAA”)], in
which neither class nor collective proceedings will be permitted.  Judgment upon the award may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction thereover. 
Employee and Employer give up and waive any right to resolve a
controversy through any other means, and the right to sue in court in
connection with claims related to this Agreement and/or Employer’s employment
with the Company.  This waiver of the
right to sue in court includes, for example, claims based on federal statutes
such as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Fair Labor Standards
Act and claims based on statutes, common law causes of action and concerning
compensation.  If there is more than one
dispute between Employee and Employer, all such disputes may be heard in a
single proceeding.  Disputes pertaining
to different employees of Employer will be heard in separate proceedings.  Any arbitration shall be held in the County
of New York, State of New York or in such other place as the parties hereto may
agree, unless applicable law requires otherwise.
 
(Id. at Ex. A, ¶ 16.)
 
The Court finds Defendant’s
burden satisfied because:
 
* facts and terms like these
suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate; and
 
* assent is effectively
uncontested.[1]
 
Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
 
Defendant
contends the FAA controls because Defendant’s “business operations” and
“Plaintiff’s work” “affect[ed] interstate commerce.”  (Motion, p. 4; see also Tackett Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
Plaintiff
did not address this issue.  (See
Opposition, pp. 1-10.)
 
The
Court favors a continuance.  The FAA
applies if the arbitration agreement’s plain language says it applies or if “the
underlying contract facilitates interstate commercial transactions or directly
or indirectly affects commerce between states.”  (Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:50.2, emphasis in
original.)  Since paragraph 16 does not
mention the FAA, Defendant bears the burden to show that “the contract involves
interstate commerce[.]”  (Id. at ¶
5:51.1.)  Supplemental evidence is needed
because Tackett’s declaration is conclusory on this point:
 
10. ADEX conducts
business nationwide and currently actively employs employees in 15 states
throughout the country, including California. 
In addition, ADEX has global project experience in over 180 countries.
 
(Tackett Decl., ¶ 10.)  Indeed, the declaration fails to discuss
Plaintiff’s work duties at all.
 
Delegation
 
The parties disagree about
whether the agreement delegates the enforcement question – more acutely, the
unconscionability question – to the arbitrator. 
(See Motion, pp. 8-9 [Defendant arguing in favor of delegation]; see
also Opposition, pp. 8-10 [Plaintiff arguing against delegation].)
 
“Some [California] courts state that parties can ‘clearly
and unmistakably’ provide that an arbitrator may decide whether an arbitration
clause is unconscionable.”  (Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:150.2 [citing Dream Theater, Inc. v. Dream Theater (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 547, Bruni v. Didion (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
1272, and Chin v. Advanced Fresh Concepts Franchise Corp. (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 704]; see also id. at ¶ 5:111.39)  
 
On the other hand, “where the arbitration agreement does not
clearly and unmistakably delegate power . . . to determine unconscionability,
the court must decide that issue.” 
(Ibid. [citing Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th
771 and Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1186],
emphasis in original.)  
 
And federal courts? 
They generally hold that courts should decide unconscionability.  (See id. at ¶ 5:150.2c [citing Davis v.
O’Melveny & Myers (9th Cir. 2007) 485 F.3d 1066 and Puelo
v. Chase Bank USA, N.A. (3rd Cir. 2010) 605 F.3d 172].)
 
However, Defendant cites Brennan v. Opus Bank (9th
Cir. 2015) 796 F.3d 1125.  (See Motion,
p. 8.)  There, the Ninth Circuit found
that “incorporation of [the] AAA rules into [an] arbitration provision . . .
constituted clear and unmistakable evidence of [the] parties’ intent to
delegate questions of arbitrability, including whether [the] clause was
unconscionable[.]”  (Knight, supra, at ¶
5:111.39 [citing Brennan, supra, 796 F.3d at 1132-1133].)
 
This Court agrees with Plaintiff.  Yes, paragraph 16 incorporates the AAA rules
(see Tackett Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 16), but Brennan is distinguishable.  The Ninth Circuit limited the holding to the
situation where the arbitration agreement is between two sophisticated
parties.  (See Brennan, supra, 796
F.3d at 1131.)  Plaintiff describes
himself as unsophisticated.  (See
Opposition, p. 9.)  As a matter of
caution, the Court believes the prudent approach is for the Court to resolve
the unconscionability question.
 
Enforcement and
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff claims the arbitration
provision is unconscionable.  (See
Opposition, pp. 4-8.)
 
Unconscionability is a
contract defense.  (See Torrecillas v.
Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492.)  Under the FAA (assuming it governs),
unconscionability can be utilized to “invalidate [an] arbitration
agreement[].”  (Ibid.)  Courts apply state law to test whether the
agreement is unconscionable.  (See, e.g.,
Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
1105, 1119.)
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on oppression
or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or
one-sided results.”  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must
both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff contends the arbitration
provision “is a contract of adhesion” (Opposition, p. 2; see also id. at p. 4),
it “is hidden in a larger employment agreement” (id. at p. 2; see also id. at
pp. 5, 6-7), and Defendant did not provide a copy of the AAA rules.  (See id. at p. 2; see also id. at pp. 5-6.)
 
The
first argument is unavailing.  “[A]
predispute arbitration agreement is not invalid merely because it is imposed as
a condition of employment.”  (Lagatree
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105,
1122–1123.)  Stated another way, “the
mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by itself, render the
agreement unenforceable.”  (Ibid.; see
also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion contract is involved
does not per se render the arbitration clause unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts are ‘an inevitable
fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer alike.’”], emphasis in
original.)
 
Regardless, Plaintiff
does not cite evidence demonstrating that Defendant presented the provision on
a take-it-or-leave it basis (Plaintiff’s “feeling” that he “had no choice but
to sign” is inadequate to meet his burden). 
(Najarro Decl., ¶ 5.)  In fact,
the employment agreement says the opposite. 
It clearly states that Plaintiff entered into the employment agreement “freely
and voluntarily” and that he received an opportunity to consult an
attorney:
 
Employee acknowledges that he/she has had the opportunity to
consult legal counsel in regard to this Agreement, has read and understands the
Agreement, is fully aware of its legal effect, and has entered into it freely
and voluntarily and not on any representations or promises other than those
contained in this Agreement.
 
(Tackett
Decl., Ex. A, p. 2, bolding in original.) 
 
The
second argument is also unavailing.  The
employment agreement is just two pages long. 
The same font – 11 or 12 point – is used throughout.  Prominence-wise, paragraph 16 is the same as
every other paragraph.  It is not hidden;
it is legible; and it is conspicuous enough. 
(See id. at Ex. A, pp. 1-2.) 
 
The third argument fails because
Plaintiff is not challenging the AAA rules themselves.  (See Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246 [“Baltazar's argument accordingly might have force if her
unconscionability challenge concerned some element of the AAA rules of which
she had been unaware when she signed the arbitration agreement.  But her challenge to the enforcement of the
agreement has nothing to do with the AAA rules; her challenge concerns only
matters that were clearly delineated in the agreement she signed.”].)
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff
claims paragraph 16 waives California law and “forc[es] him to arbitrate in New
York under New York law.”  (Opposition,
p. 8.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  A key sentence of
paragraph 17 provides: 
 
Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be
interpreted in such a manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law,
but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be prohibited by or invalid
under applicable law, such provision shall fail to be in effect only to the
extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of
this Agreement or of any such provision.
 
(Tackett
Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 17.)  Defendant concedes
that paragraph 16’s choice-of-law and venue sentences should be severed and
stipulates that the “arbitration will proceed in California pursuant to
California law.”  (Motion, p. 12.)  Given the concession and stipulation, the
Court intends to grant severance and to enforce the remainder of paragraph 16.
 
Summary
 
Plaintiff
fails to meet his burden, and the Court finds the arbitration provision
enforceable, except the Court intends to sever the choice-of-law and venue
sentences.
 
Class and Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”) Claims
 
Defendant
asserts that paragraph 16 requires arbitration on an individual basis and does
not permit class and representative claims to be arbitrated.  Defendant contends the class claims should be
stricken and the representative PAGA claim should be stayed.  (See Motion, pp. 13-14.) 
 
Plaintiff
did not respond.  (See Opposition, pp.
1-10.)
 
The
outcome depends on whether the FAA applies, so the ruling is deferred until
after the continuance.  
 
For
guidance, the Court notes the following.
 
Class Claims
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant in part. 
Relevantly, paragraph 16 states:
 
. . . Any dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, and/or related to Employee’s employment, that could otherwise be
resolved by a court shall be resolved through arbitration in accordance with
the Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures of the [AAA], in
which neither class nor collective proceedings will be permitted. . . .  Employee and Employer give up and waive any
right to resolve a controversy through any other means, and the right to sue in
court in connection with claims related to this Agreement and/or Employer’s
employment with the Company. . . .
 
(Tackett
Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 16.)  These words bar class and representative arbitration and waive
Plaintiff’s right to file a lawsuit as to covered claims.  This bar is enforceable under the FAA. 
(See, e.g., Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:49.4c [discussing AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333]; see also, e.g., Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 359-360
[finding that the FAA preempts “a state’s refusal to enforce [] a [class]
waiver on grounds of public policy or unconscionability”].)
 
Nevertheless,
the words do not bar class actions per se. 
They do not seem to create a traditional class waiver.  The Court is inclined to either order
supplemental briefing on the scope of the waiver or grant Plaintiff’s counsel
leave to try to find a new class representative who is not subject to
arbitration.
 
Representative PAGA Claim
 
Prior
to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking
River”), Iskanian controlled. 
“Iskanian’s principal rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’
PAGA claims in the first sense.”  (Viking
River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.)  “That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative
standing to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].) 
 
In
Viking River, the plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any
dispute arising out of her employment.” 
(Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action Waiver’ providing that in any
arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring any dispute as a class,
collective, or representative PAGA action.” 
(Ibid.)  “It also contained a
severability clause specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class,
collective, representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in
court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any
‘portion’ of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After
leaving her position” with the defendant, the plaintiff “filed a PAGA action .
. . in California court.”  (Ibid.)  “Her complaint contained a claim that [the
defendant] had failed to provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as
required by” Labor Code sections 101 and 102. 
(Ibid.)  “But the complaint also
asserted a wide array of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . .
. employees, including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage,
overtime, meal periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s]
‘individual’ PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she
suffered — and to dismiss her other PAGA claims.”  (Ibid.) 
“The trial court denied that motion, and the California Court of Appeal
affirmed, holding that categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to
state policy and that PAGA claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual
claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’ claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted
arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale
enforcement was impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim[.]” 
(Ibid.)
 
The
United States Supreme Court granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one,
that the FAA preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and
non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
 
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA
claims.  Under Iskanian, this
provision was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways stand out:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104.
 
This is a recurring issue in
numerous cases on the Court’s docket. 
Considering Iskanian, Viking River, and Adolph, the
Court’s approach has been to compel individual PAGA claims to arbitration and
to stay representative PAGA claims until the arbitrations finish.  The Court would probably do the same here.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


