  Case Number:  22LBCV00165    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  S25 Defendants and Cross-Complainants QNDM Properties, LLC, QNDM Distribution, LLC and Kelly Marie Dooley’s Motion to Compel Cross-Defendant LUIS CASTRO to Respond to Cross-Complainants’ Form Interrogatories, Set One, without Objection and Request for Monetary SanctionsCross-Complainants propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, on Cross-Defendant Castro on May 17, 2024. (Trauben Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. A-B.) To date, Cross-Defendant Castro has failed and/or refused to answer or otherwise respond to Cross-Complainants’ Discovery Requests and have failed and/or refused to serve any responses or objections to Cross-Complainants’ Discovery Requests. (Trauben Decl., ¶ 14.) No opposition has been filed by Cross-Defendant Castro.The instant motion is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant CASTRO is ordered to provide objection-less responses to the Cross-Complainants’ FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, within 20 days from the date of the hearing. The Court will not award monetary sanctions at this time; however, continued failure to respond to discovery by Cross-Defendant Castro may result in future monetary sanctions.Defendants and Cross-Complainants QNDM Properties, LLC, QNDM Distribution, LLC and Kelly Marie Dooley’s Motion to Compel Cross-Defendant Luis CASTRO to Respond to Cross-Complainants’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, without Objection and Request for Monetary SanctionsCross-Complainants propounded Special Interrogatories, Set One, on Cross-Defendant Castro on June 27, 2024. (Trauben Decl., ¶¶ 6 & 7, Ex. D & E.) To date, Cross-Defendant Castro has failed and/or refused to answer or otherwise respond to Cross-Complainants’ Discovery Requests and have failed and/or refused to serve any responses or objections to Cross-Complainants’ Discovery Requests. (Trauben Decl., ¶ 14.) No opposition has been filed by Cross-Defendant Castro.The instant motion is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant CASTRO is ordered to provide objection-less responses to the Cross-Complainants’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days from the date of the hearing. The Court will not award monetary sanctions at this time; however, continued failure to respond to discovery by Cross-Defendant Castro may result in future monetary sanctions.Defendants and Cross-Complainants QNDM Properties, LLC, QNDM Distribution, LLC and Kelly Marie Dooley’s Motion to Compel Cross-Defendant LUIS CASTRO to Respond to Cross-Complainants’ Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, without Objection and Request for Monetary SanctionsCross-Complainants propounded Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, on Cross-Defendant Castro on June 27, 2024. To date, Cross-Defendant Castro has failed and/or refused to answer or otherwise respond to Cross-Complainants’ Discovery Requests and have failed and/or refused to serve any responses or objections to Cross-Complainants’ Discovery Requests. (Trauben Decl., ¶ 14.) No opposition has been filed by Cross-Defendant Castro.The instant motion is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant CASTRO is ordered to provide objection-less responses to the Cross-Complainants’ REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, within 20 days from the date of the hearing. The Court will not award monetary sanctions at this time; however, continued failure to respond to discovery by Cross-Defendant Castro may result in future monetary sanctions.