 Case Number:  23LBCV01072    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural HistoryOn June 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Jayme Lyn Butler, Abigail Ito and Hannah Butler (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants American Honda Co., Inc. (“Honda”), Tony A. Harris, New Breed Trucking Company Inc., Jesus Chavez and Does 1 to 10, alleging four causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) product liability, (3) breach of warranty, and (4) fraudulent omission. Plaintiffs allege that that Defendant American Honda Co., Inc. exposed Plaintiffs to a safety defect in the Collision Mitigation Braking System (“CMBS”) when on June 9, 2021 Plaintiff Jayme Lyn Butler was driving her husband’s 2020 Honda Accord when the CMBS system suddenly stopped on the westbound I-10 Free Way and was rearended by the vehicle of Tony A. Harris, in a vehicle owned by Defendants New Breed Trucking Inc. and Jesus Chavez. (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 9, 25, 37.)On January 12, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Defendant Jesus Chavez from the complaint. (January 12, 2024 Request for Dismissal.) On February 8, 2024, Defendant New Breed dba Kim Logistics and Tony A. Harris filed an answer as well as a cross-complaint against American Honda Co., Inc. On May 20, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Plaintiff Abigail Ito from the complaint only as to all Defendants. (May 20, 2024 Request for Dismissal.) On June 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting Doe 1 as Honda Motor Company, Ltd., a Foreign Corp. (June 10 ,2024 Amendment to Complaint.) On July 30, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Honda Motor Company, Ltd., a Foreign Corp., sued as Doe 1 only. (July 30, 2024 Request for Dismissal.) On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff Jayme Lyn Butler (“Plaintiff Jayme Butler”) filed this motion to compel further responses to her Request for Production of Documents, Set Two. On October 9, 2024, Defendant Honda filed an opposition. On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff Jayme Butler filed a reply.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant Honda’s Request for Judicial Notice is granted pursuant to Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d), as to:- Exhibit A: First Amended Class Action Complaint filed on July 20, 2018 as Document 12 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Case No. 2:18-cv-04007-MWF-MAA, Kathleen A. Cadena, et. al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.- Exhibit B: Redacted Order re: Plaintiff’s Motion to Certify Class [194] and Defendant’s Motions to Exclude Testimony [215][220] filed on June 24, 2024 as Document 256 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Case No. 2:18-cv-04007-MWF-MAA, Kathleen A. Cadena, et. al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.Legal Standard“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., 2031.310, subd. (a).)The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)Meet and ConferThe meet and confer requirements have been met.AnalysisRequest No. 19 seeks: All written discovery served to YOU in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Moreover, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter.Request No. 20 seeks for: YOUR written responses to all written discovery served to YOU in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Moreover, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter.Request No. 21 seeks: An unredacted copy of the expert report of Roland D. Hoover of Robson Forensic dated 8/14/23 prepared in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the expert report of Roland D. Hoover of Robson Forensic discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the expert report to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 22 seeks: An unredacted copy of the expert report of Ashish Arora PE of Exponent dated 11/30/23 prepared in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the expert report of Ashish Aora PE of Exponent discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the expert report to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 23 asks for: An unredacted copy of the expert report of Chris Monk PhD of Exponent dated 12/1/23 prepared in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the expert report of Chris Monk PhD of Exponentdiscusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the expert report to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 24 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcript of the deposition of Roland Hoover taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition of Roland Hoover discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 25 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcript of the deposition of Norm Ruger taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition of Norm Ruger discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 26 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcripts of the depositions of Scott Hunter, both individually and as YOUR corporate representative, taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the depositions of Scott Hunter discuss Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with thealleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcripts of Scott Hunter to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 27 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcript of the deposition of Christopher Montgomery taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition of Christopher Montgomery discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 28 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcript of the deposition of Yushihiro Urai as the corporate representative of Honda Motor Company taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition of Yushihiro Urai discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 29 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcript of the deposition of YOUR corporate representative Barsilos Inak taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition of Barsilos Inak discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 30 asks for: An unredacted copy of the transcript of the deposition of Jeffrey Crane taken in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition of Jeffrey Crane discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 31 asks for: Unredacted copies of the transcripts from any additional depositions of any corporate representatives, YOUR employees, Honda Motor Company’s employees, Bosch employees, and/or experts on alleged defect issues taken in the CADENAS ACTION not specifically listed above.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the deposition transcripts from any additional depositions of any corporate representatives, Defendant Honda’s employees, Honda Motor Company’s employees, Bosch employees, and/or experts on alleged defect issues taken in the CADENA ACTION discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the deposition transcript to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 32 asks for: Any other expert reports on defect issues from the CADENAS ACTION not specifically listed above.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the expert reports on defect issues from theCADENA ACTION discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the expert reports to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 33 asks for: An unredacted copy of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class Certification filed on 8/14/23 in the CADENAS ACTION, including unredacted copies of the Notice of Motion, Memorandum in Support of Motion, Declaration of David Stein in Support of the Motion, and all Exhibits to the Motion.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class Certification discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the requested documents to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 34 asks for: An unredacted copy of YOUR Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class Certification filed on 12/1/23 in the CADENAS ACTION, including unredacted copies of the Declaration of Darlene M. Cho in Support of the Opposition, and all Exhibits to the Opposition.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defects likely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that the Defendant Honda’s Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class Certification in the CADENA ACTION discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the requested document to only include the information relevant to this action.Request No. 35 asks for: An unredacted copy of YOUR Motion to Exclude the Testimony of Roland D. Hoover Pursuant to Rule 702 filed on 12/1/23 in the CADENAS ACTION.The request is DENIED because it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant as the CADENAS ACTION involves Honda Vehicles that are not the same year and model as the subject vehicle in this present matter. Further, the CADENAS ACTION involves defectslikely unrelated the alleged subject vehicle’s CMBS defect in dispute in this present matter. Plaintiff Jayme has not demonstrated that Defendant Honda’s Motion to Exclude the Testimony of Roland D. Hoover Pursuant to Rule 702 in the CADENA ACTION discusses Honda Vehicles that are the same year and make as the subject vehicle in conjunction with the alleged CMBS defect; moreover, it seems it would be unduly burdensome for Defendant Honda to redact the requested document to only include the information relevant to this action.Tentative RulingPlaintiff Jayme Butler’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 19-35 is DENIED. The request for sanctions is also DENIED.