  Case Number:  19SMCV00056    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Marasco, v. 1753
9th Street LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00056
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses
HEARING DATE:   9/29/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
A motion to compel further responses to form (FI) or
specially prepared interrogatories (SI) may be brought if the responses
contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or
insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a
substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2030.300(a).)   
 
            A motion to compel further responses
be brought based on responses to requests for admission (RFA) that: (1) provide
evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (CCP., § 2033.290(a).)
However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel the admission of
matters already denied.  (Holguin v.
Superior Court (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.)
 
            A motion to compel further must be
noticed within 45 days of the
service of a response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing. Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right
to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See, e.g., CCP §
2031.310(c).)
 
            Motions to compel further responses
must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per CCP §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§ 2030.300(b),
2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a separate
statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as
reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Theresa Marasco moves to
compel further responses from Defendant 1753 9TH Street LLC as to Plaintiff’s FI,
Set One and RFAs, Set One. Plaintiff also requests that the Court sanction Defendant
and its counsel of record, Kere Tickner, Esq., Mary Kate Sullivan, Esq., and/or
Joel Spann, Esq., jointly and severally, in the sum of $6,593.49 and $5,678.24
for having to bring the two motions.
 
Discovery at Issue
 
On November 13, 2022, Plaintiff
served Defendant with FIs and RFAs by electronic mail. Following meet and
confer efforts, on February 17, 2023, Defendant served its current responses.
Plaintiff asserts that when a category was not improperly objected to, the
responses were not specific, and the production simply consisted of Plaintiffs’
own document production. Plaintiff notes that apparently Defendant merely
deleted Plaintiff’s bates number from the document, replaced it with their own bates
number, and served them back upon Plaintiff.
 
Generally, Defendant admits that
the current responses are deficient. Counsel promises to endeavor to provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days of this order. For guidance, the Court
will briefly address each group of requests/responses as provided in the
separate statements. 
 
The motion to compel further
responses to the FIs is GRANTED as to all cited FIs except FI no. 3.3.
 
FI No. 3.3
 
Defendant responded that this
subsection was not applicable. This response is acceptable, as it unambiguously
states that there are no other names used by the company during the past 10
years. No further response is required.
 
FI No. 4.1
 
Defendant provides unreasonable
boilerplate objections to this request and otherwise provides an evasive
response. A further response is required.
 
FI Nos. 12.1-12.7
 
Defendant provides unreasonable
boilerplate objections to these requests, and otherwise provides evasive
responses. Further responses are required.
 
FI Nos. 13.1-13.2
 
Defendant provides unreasonable
boilerplate objections to these requests, and otherwise provides evasive
responses. Further responses are required.
 
FI Nos. 14.1-14.2
 
Defendant provides unreasonable
boilerplate objections to these requests, and otherwise provides evasive
responses. Further responses are required.
 
FI No. 15.1
 
Defendant provides an evasive
response as to (a) and (c). Defendant does not identify any facts which
Defendant bases the denials. Defendant also provides the unhelpful response of
identifying all documents produced in discovery. Further responses are required.
 
FI Nos. 16.1-16.10
 
Defendant provides unreasonable
boilerplate objections to these requests, and otherwise provides evasive
responses. Further responses are required.
 
FI No. 17.1
 
Defendant provided multiple denials
of the RFAs. In this FI, Defendant failed to provide explanations for each
response that was not an unqualified admission. Therefore, further responses
are required, and must be consistent with any further responses to RFAs.
 
FI Nos. 50.1-50.6
 
Defendant provides unreasonable
boilerplate objections to these requests, and otherwise provides evasive
responses. Further responses are required.
 
RFA no. 2
 
Defendant provides an evasive
response to this RFA. Defendant both responds that it “lacks information,
knowledge, or belief as to either admit or deny this request” and also “denies”
the RFA. This contradictory response is not code compliant. A further response
is required.
 
RFA no. 3
 
Respondent provides an unqualified
admission. Therefore, a further response is not required. (See American
Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water
Dist. of Southern Calif., (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 247, 268 [denial following
boilerplate objections was unequivocal].) 
 
RFA no. 4
 
Defendant provides an evasive
response to this RFA. Defendant both responds that it “lacks information,
knowledge, or belief as to either admit or deny this request” and also “denies”
the RFA. This contradictory response is not code compliant. A further response
is required.
 
RFA no. 5
 
Defendant provides an evasive
response to this RFA. Defendant both responds that it “lacks information,
knowledge, or belief as to either admit or deny this request” and also “denies”
the RFA. This contradictory response is not code compliant. A further response
is required.
 
RFA no. 6
 
Respondent provides an unqualified
denial. A further response is not required.
 
RFA nos. 7-18
 
Defendant provides evasive responses
to these RFAs. The RFAs request an admission to liability on each cause
of action. Defendant denies that there has been an adjudication as to
its liability on each cause of action. Defendant’s denials reframe the requests
to avoid the call of the question. Further responses are therefore required.
 
RFA nos. 19-22
 
Defendant provides evasive
responses to these RFAs. Defendant both responds that it “lacks information,
knowledge, or belief as to either admit or deny this request” and also “denies”
the RFAs. This contradictory response is not code compliant. Further responses are
required.
 
RFA no. 23
 
Defendant provides an evasive
response. The RFA requests an admission that there are no affirmative
defenses. It does not ask whether Defendant alleged affirmative defenses. Defendant
denies on the basis that it has asserted affirmative. Defendant’s denial
reframes the request to avoid the call of the question. A further response is therefore
required.
 
RFA no. 24-26
 
Defendant provides evasive
responses to these RFAs. Defendant both responds that it “lacks information,
knowledge, or belief as to either admit or deny this request” and also “denies”
the RFAs. This contradictory response is not code compliant. Further responses
are required.
 
Conclusions
 
The motion to compel further
responses to the FROGs is GRANTED as to all cited FROGs except no. 3.3.
 
The motion to compel further
responses to the RFAs is GRANTED as to all cited RFAs exception nos. 3 and 6.
 
Further responses are due within 10
days.
 
SANCTIONS
 
Sanctions are mandatory. The Court must
sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.300(d).) Here,
sanctions are mandatory as Defendant failed to justify the evasive responses or
their objections.
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions
against Defendant and its former counsel of record, Kere Tickner, Esq., Mary
Kate Sullivan, Esq., and/or Joel Spann, Esq., jointly and severally, in the sum
of $6,593.49 and $5,678.24. 
 
The Court finds that the imposition
of sanctions would be unjust against Defendant, as the record suggests that the
prior counsel of record was responsible for the discovery misconduct. Current
counsel provides that Defendant was simply an entity relying on the expertise
of prior counsel for its defense, and should therefore not be sanctioned. The
Court is inclined to grant the noticed sanctions against its former counsel of
record only.
 
The Court finds that the requested
sanctions are unreasonably high given the circumstances. There is substantial
overlap between the four motions in this discovery dispute, including in the
meet and confer efforts and the memoranda filed. Further, the rates requested
are unreasonably high and not based on counsel’s hourly rate of $495.00 per
hour. Thus, the Court is inclined to grant sanctions as follows. As to the FIs,
the Court will grant sanctions in the reduced amount of $555. As to the RFAs,
the Court will grant sanctions in the reduced amount of $555. 
 
Accordingly, the sanctions request
is GRANTED in the total amount of $1,110.00, inclusive of costs, against
Defendant’s former counsel of record, Kere Tickner, Esq., and Severson &
Werson, jointly and severally. 