 Case Number:  21SMCV01059    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Jacbos v.
Ritchie 
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01059
MOTION:                  Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
HEARING DATE:   9/29/2023

 
BACKGROUND
 
This action concerns the real
property located at 1870 Old Topanga Canyon Road, Topanga, California 90290. On
June 16, 2021, Plaintiff Jessica Jacobs (“Jacobs”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Steven Ray Ritchie (“Ritchie”) for injunctive relief, quiet title,
declaratory relief, trespass, nuisance, and ejectment. Plaintiff Jacobs
contends she and her husband are sole owners of the property, which they
lawfully purchased from the former owner, Lauren Ivester (“Ivester”). Jacobs further
contends that Ritchie is improperly occupying the property, claiming to have a
valid interest in the property by virtue of a lease agreement between himself
and Ivester entered into prior to the sale of the property to Jacobs. 
 
In an underlying unlawful detainer (UD)
action, Case No. 21STCV40908, the Court adjudicated the issue of possession of
the subject property at a bench trial on Jacobs’s claim for unlawful detainer. The
Court found for Jacobs and on December 16, 2022, entered judgment in her favor
on her claim for unlawful detainer. Ritchie appealed that judgment. The
judgment was affirmed on September 19, 2023.
 
Legal
Standard
 
A
defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made after the time to
demur has expired and an answer has been filed. (CCP § 438(f).) A motion by a
defendant may be made on the grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of
the subject of one or more of the causes of action alleged” or (2) the
complaint or cross-complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant.” (CCP § 438(c).)
 
A motion
for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but
is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as provided by statute,
the rules governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is
akin to a general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state
a cause of action. The court must assume the truth of all factual allegations
in the complaint, along with matters subject to judicial notice.” (Wise v.
Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738, citations
omitted.) Further, like a general demurrer, a motion for judgment on the
pleadings “does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part
of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) 
 
Analysis
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court takes sua sponte judicial
notice of the Court’s records in the underlying UD action (case no. 21STCV40908).
 
 
Issue Preclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Jessica Jacobs
moves to “dismiss” the Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC), citing Code of Civil
Procedure section 438. The Court interprets this motion as a motion for
judgment on the pleadings under section 438. Jacobs argues that the SACC fails
to cure the deficiencies from the First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC), as the
SACC does not add any new allegations that could change the Court's prior
ruling on demurrer. The Court previously sustained Jacobs’s demurrer on the
grounds that the FACC failed to state a cause of action because the issue of
the alleged lease agreement between Ritchie and Ivester was previously
adjudicated in a different action between the parties – namely, LASC Case No.
21STCV40908. While Jacobs does not cite the precise legal theory, the Court
interprets this as an attempt to invoke issue preclusion.
 
The doctrine of res judicata generally precludes parties
from relitigating a cause of action determined with finality in a prior
proceeding. (E.g., Smith v. ExxonMobil Oil Corp. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1407, 1413-14; Wright v. Ripley (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1189,
1193.) The doctrine has two aspects: it applies to both a previously litigated
cause of action, referred to as claim preclusion, and to an issue necessarily
decided in a prior action, referred to as issue preclusion. (Vandenberg v.
Superior Court (1999) 21 Cal.4th 815, 828.) “[R]es judicata does not merely
bar relitigation of identical claims or causes of action. Instead, in its
collateral estoppel aspect, the doctrine may also preclude a party to prior
litigation from redisputing issues therein decided against him, even when those
issues bear on different claims raised in a later case. Moreover, because the
estoppel need not be mutual, it is not necessary that the earlier and later
proceedings involve the identical parties or their privies. Only the party
against whom the doctrine is invoked must be bound by the prior proceeding.
[Citations.]” (Ibid.)   
 
The nature of unlawful detainer actions prevents a blanket
application of normal issue preclusion rules. An unlawful detainer action is a
summary proceeding ordinarily limited to resolution of the question of
possession. (Malkoskie v. Option One Mortg. Corp. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th
968, 973.) Any judgment arising from an unlawful detainer action generally is
given limited res judicata effect. (Ibid.) Issue preclusion will
apply in this context if the party to be bound agreed expressly or impliedly to
submit an issue to prior adjudication and had a full and fair opportunity to
litigate under circumstances affording due process protections. (Ayala v.
Dawson¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1319, 1327.) Litigation of an affirmative
defense, even one not ordinarily cognizable in unlawful detainer, if it is
raised without objection, and if a fair opportunity to litigate is provided
will result in a judgment conclusive upon issues material to that
defense.  (Vella v. Hudgins (1977) 20 Cal.3d 251, 257.) 
 
Caselaw has discussed similar circumstances which
illustrate the issue preclusion effect of unlawful detainer judgments. (Wood
v. Herson (1974) 39 Cal.App.3d 737; Vella v. Hudgins (1977) 20
Cal.3d 251; see also Ayala, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at 1330 [issue of resident's claim to
equitable title to property was actually litigated where the resident had filed
motion to quash service in unlawful detainer proceeding alleging that property
owner had duped him into
signing lease misrepresenting it to be an installment sale contract, and that
court allowed tenant to take discovery including depositions, held hearing, and
took testimony with hundreds of pages of transcripts before rejecting that
claim and finding that there was an enforceable written lease agreement, which
implied that property owner did not commit fraud].)
 
For instance, in Wood, the defendant, Herson,
arranged to obtain a mortgage loan and purchase property allegedly on behalf of
the plaintiffs, the Woods, who could not qualify for the mortgage. (Wood,
supra, 39 Cal.App.3d at 740–742.) A dispute arose over whether Herson held
title and was the true property owner or held title in trust for the Woods and
had no right to possession. (Id.) Herson brought an unlawful detainer
action. (Id.) The Woods defended against the UD action by arguing fraud
and claiming that Herson had agreed orally to purchase the property on their
behalf and then transfer title to them. (Id.) They presented this theory
through an affirmative defense of fraud. (Id.) Herson prevailed. (Id.)
In a subsequent suit by the Woods for specific performance predicated on the
same theory, the trial court granted summary judgment against them, applying
the doctrine of collateral estoppel. (Id. at 739.) The Court of
Appeal affirmed, reasoning that the Woods’ affirmative defense of fraud in the
unlawful detainer action was virtually identical to the fraud allegations upon
which their suit for specific performance was based, the court concluded that
even though title ‘normally is not a permissible issue in an unlawful detainer
action,’ the essential issues had been fully and fairly disposed of in the
earlier proceeding. (Wood, supra, 39 Cal.App.3d at 740.) 
 
The Vella court analyzed the variety of
factors considered in Wood to determine whether a similar fraud issue
was fully litigated.  
 
“The [Woods]
court cited in support of its ruling such varied factors as the length of the
‘summary’ unlawful detainer hearing (seven days), the scope of discovery by the
parties (‘extensive’ and ‘complete’), the quality of the evidence (‘detailed’),
and the general character of the action (‘[clearly] ... not the customary
unlawful detainer proceeding’). A lengthy and comprehensive superior court
record replete with precise findings of fact persuaded the Wood court
that application of collateral estoppel to curtail further litigation would
involve ‘no miscarriage of justice—(the) Woods have had their day in court....’ ”  
 
(Vella, supra, 20 Cal.3d at 256 [citations omitted];
see Woods, supra, 740-745.) 
 
Using this same framework, Vella came to the
opposite conclusion in its case. In Vella, a property owner in an
eviction action tried to block subsequent litigation against him by an evicted
tenant based on the unlawful detainer judgment he previously obtained. (Vella,
supra, 20 Cal.3d at 253.) The plaintiff, Vela, alleged she had a long-term
intimate relationship with the property owner, Hudgins. (Ibid.) When
Vella had trouble keeping up payments on the note, Hudgins purchased the note
to protect her from default, and assured her she need not worry about making
payments. (Id. at 254.) A dispute arose and Hudgins directed the deed of
trust trustee to give notice of default. (Id.) In an ensuing unlawful
detainer proceeding by Hudgins against Vella, Vella pleaded fraud as an
affirmative defense, but ultimately lost and was evicted. (Ibid.) In a
subsequent action, Vella brought a fraud claim against Hudgins, and prevailed.
(Ibid.) On Hudgin’s appeal against the fraud action, the Supreme
Court rejected Hudgins’s contention that Vella’s separate fraud action was
barred by issue preclusion. Vella described the Woods
decision as an “uncommon” situation where the parties to an unlawful detainer
action had fully and extensively litigated issues beyond simple possession. (Vella,
supra, 20 Cal.3d at 257.) The Vella court explained that the
facts presented there were more typical of a summary unlawful detainer
proceeding than the situation presented in Wood: 
 
The record
offered in support of the plea of res judicata is virtually barren. Evidently
the unlawful detainer proceedings were unrecorded or untranscribed, for no
transcript of the municipal court hearing exists, and no findings of fact or
conclusions of law were made, other than a notation in the trial judge’s minute
order to the effect that Vella had not proved her affirmative defenses of
‘waiver and [equitable] estoppel and tender.’ The sparse record presented to us
fails to show either the precise nature of the factual issues litigated, or the
depth of the court’s inquiry. We decline to assume, given the summary character
of this type of action, that the mere pleading of a defense without objection
by the adverse party necessarily demonstrates adequate opportunity to litigate
the defense. The fact that in the unlawful detainer action both parties
submitted trial-length estimates of two hours, whereas trial of the second
action consumed four days, while not controlling, does create a strong
inference that the former proceeding was a conventional unlawful detainer
action, unlike the elaborate and highly atypical proceeding considered in Wood. 
 
(Id. at 258.)  
 
Thus, the Court must determine that
1) the SACC’s causes of action arise from an issue
necessarily decided in the unlawful detainer action, 2) the record was
sufficiently developed record showing that the issue was litigated, 3) Ritchie
expressly or impliedly agreed to submit the issue to prior adjudication, and 4)
Ritchie had a full and fair opportunity to litigate under circumstances
affording due process protections.
 
The SACC alleges that in 2017,
Ritchie and Ivester were in a romantic relationship. (SACC ¶ 9.) In October
2019, Ritchie located a property at 1870 Old Topanga Canyon Road, Topanga,
California 90290 (the “Property”), which he sought to buy and develop. (Id.) On
October 28, 2019, Ritchie gave escrow a down payment of $2,250, becoming a part
owner. (¶ 10.) Ritchie obtained an oral agreement from Ivester, confirmed in
text, for a loan to pay off the land in full. (Id.) Ivester paid the remaining
purchase price and Ritchie put the title in Ivester’s name per the agreement.
(Id.) It was understood that, while paying back the loan, Ritchie would retain possession
and an interest in the Property due to the work he was performing on the
property. (¶ 12.) He also had an option to buy the Property for $50,000 based
on written texts from Ivester. (¶ 13.) Von Wetter and Jacobs knew Ivester
agreed to deed the land back to Ritchie for the work he did on the Property.
(¶11.) Ritchie moved onto the land in January 2020 and did extensive work, such
as clearing the property of brush, and putting in 2 driveways, 2 rock terraced
patios, retaining walls, fencing, and an entrance gate. (¶ 12.)
 
On August 14, 2020, Ivester became
angry with Ritchie after seeing him with another woman. (SACC ¶ 15.) Ivester
knew that she could not evict Ritchie because of their agreement, so instead,
Ivester asked VonWetter, to sell the land to Jacobs. (¶¶ 15-16.) On August 15,
2020, Ivester created two eviction notices describing how Ritchie violated a
lease agreement and called on Von Wetter to assist her in selling the land to
Jacobs. (Id.) Jacobs and VonWetter knew of Ritchie’s interest in, and
development of, the Property before escrow closed. (¶¶ 16, 21.) On August 17,
2020, Ivester sold the Property to Jacobs for $85,000, contingent on Ivester
removing Ritchie and his personal belongings. (¶ 17.) VonWetter assisted
Ivester and Jacobs as their real estate agent to cheat Ritchie out of the Property
by transferring the land as fast as possible to Jacobs and making it appear as
though Jacobs was an innocent buyer, that Ritchie was a trespasser and there
was no lease. (¶ 19.) Ultimately, Jacobs amended the agreement with Ivester so
that Ivester could deliver property without dealing with Ritchie or his
personal belongings on the property, among other alleged amendments. (¶ 20.) The
SACC alleges further evidentiary facts regarding various statements made by
Defendants. (SACC pp. 5-9.) The SACC alleges 9 causes
of action for quiet title, preliminary injunction, declaratory relief,
trespass, nuisance, breach of contract, specific performance, fraudulent
conveyance, and defamation. 
 
Jacobs previously demurred each
cause of action in the FACC on the grounds that the issue of the validity of
the alleged lease agreement between Richie and Ivester was previously
adjudicated in the underlying UD action. The Court sustained that demurrer with
leave to amend, finding that the issues pertaining to the lease agreement
between Ritchie and Ivester were previously adjudicated against Ritchie. Jacobs
argues that the SACC continues to rely on the same lease agreement, despite it
being previously determined as non-existent and/or void against Jacobs. From the allegations and the record of the underlying UD
action, it appears that most of the causes of action relate to the same factual
issues underlying Ritchie’s defense in the underlying UD action.
 
In the underlying UD action,
Ritchie expressly agreed to adjudicate the issue of
his title to the property, including his 20-year lease with option to purchase
as a defense to the unlawful detainer. In his answer, Ritchie sets forth the
same facts pled in the SACC as defenses to the unlawful detainer, including 73
pages of attachments detailing the same alleged conspiracy between Jacobs,
VonWetter and Ivester. 
 
The
record is sufficiently developed to demonstrate that Ritchie was afforded due
process and had a full and fair opportunity to litigate the title/lease issue. The
UD bench trial took place over at least four days. Both parties made opening
statements and closing arguments. Jacobs presented evidence over the course of
three days, including rebuttal testimony. Ritchie also presented evidence in
the form of dozens of documents, and called two other witnesses and himself in
his defense. Additionally, there was discovery, including informal discovery
conferences on October 3, 2022, and October 21, 2022. On November 22, 2022, the
Court issued a detailed 6-page minute order stating the facts of the case and
significant evidence presented. The Court found Ritchie’s witnesses not credible
and held that there was no meeting of the minds between Ritchie and Ivester
regarding the 20-year lease agreement. The Court further found that even if it
credited Ritchie’s version of events, Jacobs was still a bona fide purchaser
for value since Jacobs investigated the veracity of Ritchie’s title claim. Defendant
made numerous post-judgment motions and appealed the judgment. The court rejected
the motions, issued a judgment in favor of Jacobs, and the Court of Appeal
affirmed the judgment. Ritchie
does not explain what evidence or legal theories that he could not have
reasonably presented in the underlying UD action. Thus, the UD action provided
a full and fair opportunity for Ritchie to litigate his interest in the
Property pled in the SACC.
 
Issue
preclusion would therefore apply to any cause of action arising out of an
interest in the property created by the lease. This would include the quiet
title, preliminary injunction, declaratory relief, trespass, nuisance, breach
of contract, specific performance, and fraudulent conveyance causes of action. The
defamation cause of action, on the other hand, does not directly relate to the
issue of the lease and could not have been fairly adjudicated in the underlying
UD action. 
 
Accordingly, Jacobs’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the first
through eighth causes of action, and DENIED as to the ninth cause of action for
defamation.
 
 