 Case Number:  21STCV07431    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Wallach, et
al., v. Providence Health System So. Cal., et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV07431
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Compliance with SDTs to Verizon
HEARING DATE:   9/29/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition
notice obligates a party or “party-affiliated” witness (officer, director,
managing agent or employee of party) to attend and testify, as well as produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying. (CCP § 2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party deponent fails to appear, testify, or produce documents or
tangible things for inspection without having served a valid objection under
CCP § 2025.410, the deposing party may move for an order compelling attendance,
testimony, and production. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration, or, when a party deponent fails to attend the
deposition, the motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the moving party has contacted the party deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
A motion to compel production
of documents described in a deposition notice must be accompanied by a showing
of good cause. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).) In other words, the moving party must
provide evidence (generally in the form of declarations) showing specific facts
justifying inspection of the documents described in the notice. Courts
liberally construe good cause in favor of discovery where facts show the
documents are necessary for trial preparation.
 
The motion to compel must be
“made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).) This time limit also applies to motions based
on a deposition subpoena for production of documents or a business records subpoena.
The 60-day time limit runs from the date objections are served because the
deposition record is then complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Providence moves to
compel production of phone records from third party Verizon Wireless. Defendant
seeks the phone records of Plaintiff Wallach and Decedent through the two
subpoenas at issue. The subpoenas seek the same information: “Call logs and
text message logs of all incoming and outgoing calls/messages from March 14,
2020, through March 15, 2020.”
 
The records are subject to
discovery because the requests are reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiffs claim the postpartum nursing staff
failed to ambulate and assess Decedent for signs and symptoms of a deep vein
thrombosis. Defendants contend that Decedent was recovering normally and
showing no signs or symptoms of deep vein thrombosis. Plaintiff contends that
she was not recovering normally, her condition was unusual, and that she was
experiencing high levels of pain and discomfort. Further, at his deposition,
Mr. Wallach testified that decedent hardly communicated with any friends or
family after the birth of their baby girl. The Verizon logs would allow
Defendant to assess whether decedent’s activity level conforms with Mr.
Wallach’s testimony. Further, anyone Mr. Wallach and decedent communicated with
on those days is a potential witness to Decedent’s condition before her death.
Defendant is therefore entitled to the name and contact information of these
potential witnesses.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion
arguing that Decedent and Mr. Wallach’s phone records are constitutionally protected,
and that the subpoenas would violate third parties’ right to privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
(Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.)
In Hill, the California Supreme Court established a framework for
evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Id. at 35–37.) The party seeking information may raise
in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may
identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. (Id. at 37–40.)  Courts must carefully balance
a right of privacy against the interest in having just litigation. (Pioneer
Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371.) If
there is a serious invasion of a constitutional right to privacy, the party
seeking the evidence must establish that the information sought is not only
essential and directly relevant, but also that this information could not be
discovered through less intrusive means. (See Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552; Allen v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d
447, 449.) 
 
Plaintiff contends that the cell
phone records do not reveal any directly relevant information. They reason that
the persons that Plaintiffs spoke with and when they spoke is irrelevant to
Decedent’s death. Plaintiff asserts that these facts would only show that
Decedent was active enough to use her phone and do not relate to her recovery.
Plaintiff notes that there are other, more direct sources of relevant
information. For example, the staff already documented Decedent’s condition and
any relevant medical care. 
 
The Court notes that the subpoena
is extremely limited in scope and depth. The subpoena only seeks the record
logs of calls and texts—not the content of the calls and messages. Further, the
subpoena is narrowly tailored for the relevant two-day time period leading to her
death. As such, this is not a “serious” invasion of privacy where Defendant
must show a compelling need, direct relevance or that there is no alternate
means to obtain the information. Simply put, Plaintiffs’ and third parties’
privacy interests do not outweigh Defendant’s reasonably tailored subpoena. 
 
Accordingly, the motions to compel
compliance are GRANTED.