  Case Number:  20STCV38718    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
            




SHELDON
  SMITH, TRUSTEE OF THE
ALBERT S.
  SMITH, JR. SEPARATE
PROPERTY TRUST DATED NOVEMBER 8, 2002,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
WALTER PERKINS, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV38718




Hearing Date:


April 16, 2024




Hearing Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  EMERALD ESCROW, INC.’S MOTION TO FILE UNDER SEAL




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 




 
Background 
Plaintiff Sheldon Smith,
Trustee of the Albert S. Smith, Jr. Separate Property Trust Dated November 8,
2002 (“Smith”) filed this action on October 8, 2020 against Defendants Walter
Perkins, Henry A. Thomas, Trustee of the Henry A. Thomas Trust dated 2/12/2007,
Orange Coast Title Company, and Emerald Escrow, Inc. (“Emerald”). On October
15, 2021, Smith filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), asserting
causes of action for (1) fraud, 
(2) cancellation of deed, (3) quiet
title, and (4) negligence.
On
March 29, 2021, Emerald filed a Cross-Complaint against several
Cross-Defendants, alleging causes of action for (1) implied indemnity, (2)
comparative indemnity, (3) equitable indemnity, (4) express contractual
indemnity, and (5) contribution.  
On
March 20, 2024, Emerald filed an Application for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement. 
 Emerald now moves for an order
sealing limited portions of Emerald’s Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement, as well as limited portions of the concurrently filed
Declaration of Adam E. Wayne. The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
Generally,
court records are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by
law. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) If the
presumption of access applies, the court may order that a record be filed under
seal “if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)
Emerald seeks to file
its unredacted Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement and
corresponding Declaration of Adam E. Wayne under seal, and publicly file
redacted versions of those documents with certain redactions. (See Mot. to
Seal at p. 4:7-16.) Emerald indicates that it “seeks to seal only limited
portions related to the settlement amount in its Application and supporting
papers.” (Wayne Decl., ¶ 9.)
In his supporting declaration, Emerald’s counsel states that “[o]n March 1, 2024, Plaintiff
and Emerald Escrow entered into a settlement, which memorialized a confidential
settlement between the Plaintiff and Emerald Escrow.” (Wayne Decl., ¶ 3.)
Emerald’s counsel indicates that the settlement agreement contains the
following confidentiality provision: 
 
“SMITH
agrees that any information regarding the terms of the resolution of the
LAWSUIT, including, but not limited to, the SETTLEMENT AMOUNT, must remain
confidential, and promises to undertake all necessary actions to insure that
this information remains confidential. To this end, SMITH agrees that he, and
any other person acting on her behalf, shall never disclose the terms of the
resolution of the LAWSUIT, including, but not limited to, the SETTLEMENT
AMOUNT, or the fact that SMITH is receiving a settlement payment, to any other
person, firm, organization, corporation, or other entity, including but not
limited to newspapers, legal publications, the internet, electronic or print
media, television, radio, or any other publication. In the event any inquiry is
made of concerning the resolution of the subject lawsuit, SMITH agrees that he,
and his attorneys, consultants, employees, agents and representatives, shall
only indicate that ‘the lawsuit has been dismissed,’ and shall give no other
indication of the outcome. This confidentiality provision shall not apply to
any enforcement proceedings related to this RELEASE, the good faith settlement
proceeding related to this RELEASE, to lawful process or judicial order, or to
spouses, banks, legal and/or tax advisors, or, where mutually agreed to in
writing by SMITH and EMERALD ESCROW.” (Wayne Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Emerald asserts that there is an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access and supports sealing the records. Emerald cites to Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
1273, 1283, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]ndependent of its broader requests, defendant requests that we
seal the October 14, 1998, settlement agreement. We agree with defendant that
its contractual obligation not to disclose can constitute an overriding
interest within the meaning of rule 243.1(d).”[1]
Emerald also asserts
that there is a substantial probability that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the documents are disclosed publicly. Emerald’s counsel asserts
that “[i]f the record is not sealed, and the settlement amount is
publicly disclosed, both Plaintiff and Emerald Escrow will be prejudiced
because disclosure of monetary amounts could subject Emerald Escrow to a future
competitive disadvantage, and Plaintiff’s private financial affairs will be
disclosed.” (Wayne Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Lastly,
Emerald asserts that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored and the least
restrictive means of protecting confidentiality interests. Emerald states that
it “seeks only to seal limited portions of the filings referencing
confidential settlement information, while allowing the Court and the other
Parties to access the otherwise confidential settlement terms for purposes of
determining whether Emerald Escrow’s settlement was in good faith.” (Mot. at p.
5:12-15.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Emerald has demonstrated that  “(1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing
the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
grants Emerald’s motion “for an Order sealing limited portions of
Emerald Escrow’s Application of Determination of Good Faith Settlement, as well
as limited portions of the concurrently filed Declaration of Adam E. Wayne.” 
Pursuant to ¿California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e)¿,
the Court directs the clerk to file this order, maintain Emerald’s unredacted Application
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement and concurrently filed Declaration
of Adam E. Wayne sealed in
a secure manner, and clearly identify these documents as sealed by this
order.¿¿ 
Emerald is
ordered to provide notice of this order.¿ 
 
DATED:  April 16, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court 


