 Case Number:  23STCV24945    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
            



ANTHONY R. SAENZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EMMA SAENZ, et al. 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV24945 




Hearing Date:


April 16, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CODE
  OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 425.16 OF DEFENDANT EMMA SAENZ; REQUEST FOR AWARD OF
  ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



 
Background
Plaintiff
Anthony R. Saenz (“Anthony Saenz”) filed this action on October 12, 2023
against Defendants Emma Saenz, Elliott Escrow Inc., and Kimberly Elliot. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of oral and/or implied
contract, (2) breach of contract, 
(3) common
counts, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) conversion of money, (6) violation of
Penal Code section 496, (7) breach of contract, and
(8) breach of fiduciary duty. 
            In the Complaint, Anthony Saenz
alleges that he was an owner in joint tenancy of residential real
property located at 586 Shady Dell, Crest line, CA 92325 (the “Premises”) with Emma
Saenz (Anthony
Saenz’s mother). (Compl., ¶ 1.) Anthony Saenz alleges that from
September 11, 2017 to June 2, 2022, Emma Saenz and Anthony Saenz owned the
Premises as joint tenants with a right of survivorship. (Compl., ¶ 10.) 
Anthony
Saenz alleges that “[o]n or about May 23, 2022, [Emma Saenz] and
[Anthony
Saenz] entered into a California residential purchase agreement
with joint escrow instructions, hereinafter the ‘CARPA’, whereby Jennifer Emily
Orvis and Phillip Andrew Orvis would purchase the PREMISES from [Anthony Saenz]
and defendant Emma Saenz, and whereby [Anthony Saenz] and defendant
Emma Saenz would sell the PREMISES to Jennifer Emily Orvis and Phillip Andrew
Orvis.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) “Defendant Elliot Escrow, Inc. was selected by the
parties to act as the escrow holder and agent for the sales transaction and
closing.” (Compl., ¶ 13.)
Anthony
Saenz alleges that “[p]ursuant to the sellers’ closing statement,
the amount due seller at close was $282,189.15.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) “However,
rather than issue two checks (one to be paid to the order of [Anthony Saenz]
and one to be paid to the order of Emma Saenz) for the total net sales
proceeds, defendant Elliot Escrow, Inc., instead issued a single check for
$282,189.15 in the name of defendant Emma Saenz…” (Compl., ¶ 15.) Anthony Saenz
alleges that “Emma Saenz contacted defendant Elliot Escrow Inc., a day after
the close, told defendants Elliot Escrow Inc….that…Emma Saenz would come get
the check, had the check issued only in her name, and upon getting the check
immediately deposited it to her own personal bank account and did not provide
any of the net proceeds of the sale to plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
            On December 27, 2023, Elliot Escrow,
Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against Emma Saenz, alleging seven causes of
action.  
            On January 26, 2024, Emma Saenz
filed a Cross-Complaint against Anthony Saenz, alleging causes of action for
(1) elder financial abuse, (2) breach of oral contract, and (3) declaratory
relief. 
            Anthony Saenz now moves to pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 to strike
Emma Saenz’s Cross-Complaint. Emma Saenz opposes. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Anthony Saenz’s request for judicial notice filed in support of
the motion. The Court denies Anthony Saenz’s request for judicial notice filed
in support of the reply. The Court notes that “[t]he general rule of motion
practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.” (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on Anthony Saenz’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Emma
Saenz as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained as to “[t]o the best of my knowledge, Tony
hasn’t held a real job for over a decade,” overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled 
Objection No. 4: overruled as to “I own another cabin in Crestline, at
161 Wylerhorn (the ‘Wylerhorn property’), and I put that property in joint
tenancy with my other son, Martin, under the same arrangement four years
earlier. A true and correct copy of that deed is attached here as Exhibit E,”
sustained as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 5: sustained as to “because he wasn’t the real owner of
the property,” and as to “Tony didn’t.” 
Objection No. 6: sustained as to the second sentence, overruled as to
the remainder. 
Objection No. 7: overruled as to “Exhibit 2 to Tony’s Motion is an
email from Rita Rhilinger at Mountain Property Management,” and “[t]he email
from Rita is addressed to me on the ‘To’ line, and Tony is bcc’d on the email,”
sustained as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 8: sustained as to the last sentence, overruled as to
the remainder. 
Objection No. 9: overruled 
Objection No. 10: sustained as to “But I’m nearly
certain that both of those bills are for the Wylerhorn property, where Tony was
living at the time, not the Shady Dell property,” overruled as to the
remainder. 
Objection No. 11: overruled 
Objection No. 12: overruled
Objection No. 13: sustained as to “[t]hose
statements don’t prove that he received any of the money from the property,
that he paid any of its expenses, or that he was a true owner,” overruled as to
the remainder. 
Objection No. 14: overruled
Objection No. 15: overruled  
Objection No. 16: overruled
Objection No. 17: overruled
Objection No. 18: sustained 
Objection No. 19: sustained 
Objection No. 20:
overruled
Objection No. 21:
sustained as to the second and third sentences, overruled as to the remainder. 
Discussion
The anti-SLAPP statute is
“a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of
free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process
and resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal
quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for
determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public
participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether the defendant
has established that the challenged claim arises from protected speech. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
A.    Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the
defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP statute is
that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the defendant in
furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.)           
An act in furtherance of
a person’s right of petition or free speech includes the following:
 
“(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the
allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation
for the claims.” (Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity.” (Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 [emphasis in
original].) In making this
determination, the Court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.) “The anti-SLAPP statute should
be broadly construed and a plaintiff cannot avoid operation of the anti-SLAPP
statute by attempting, through artifices of pleading, to characterize an action
as a garden variety tort claim when in fact the liability claim is predicated
on protected speech or conduct.” (Ramona Unified School Dist. v. Tsiknas (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 510, 519 [internal
citations omitted].)
Allegations of the
Cross-Complaint  
In her Cross-Complaint,
Emma Saenz alleges that she “is approximately 84 years old,” and is “the
mother of plaintiff Anthony Saenz.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 4.) In October 2016, Emma
Saenz purchased the home located at 586 Shady Dell in Crestline, CA for
$105,000 (the “Shady Dell property”). (Cross-Compl., ¶ 5.) Emma Saenz paid for the property
outright from her own funds. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 5.) 
“In September 2017, Ms. Saenz decided that if she were to pass away,
she wanted the Shady Dell property to pass to her son, Anthony. She knew that
if she put the Shady Dell property in joint tenancy with Anthony, he would
automatically become the owner of the property upon her death. Ms. Saenz asked
Anthony whether he would want to inherit that property at her death, Anthony
said yes, and so she signed a deed transferring legal title to the Shady Dell
property from herself, as an unmarried woman, to herself and Anthony as joint
tenants with right of survivorship.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 6.) 
“In or about July 2020, Anthony’s girlfriend, Lisa Vu, bought a
property at 28866 Banff Drive in Lake Arrowhead, California with her mother,
Mai Thi Dao (the ‘Banff property’).” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 8.) “In or about
mid-2021, Ms. Vu started asking Ms. Saenz if she wanted to pay off the loan on
the Banff property and co-own it with her. Ms. Vu said that if Ms. Saenz paid
off the loan, Ms. Dao would surrender her interest in the property so that Ms.
Saenz would become an equal co-owner of the property with Ms. Vu.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 9.) “Emma eventually agreed. Emma and Ms. Vu decided to form
28866 Banff Dr LLC, with Lisa Vu as the manager of the entity, and title to the
Banff property was to be transferred to the LLC. Between November 2021 and
February 2022, Emma paid approximately $230,000 to Lisa Vu in mortgage payments
and a final mortgage payoff. Ms. Dao conveyed her interest in the Banff
property to Lisa Vu. Lisa Vu, in turn, executed a grant deed transferring the
Banff property to the LLC, but unbeknownst to Emma, Ms. Vu never recorded that
grant deed. Instead, Ms. Vu prepared a new deed transferring the Banff property
to Ms. Vu’s family trust and recorded that.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 10.) 
“In May 2022, Ms. Saenz decided to sell the Shady Dell property.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 11.) “Ms. Saenz told Anthony that she wanted to sell Shady
Dell. Anthony had no objection to that. They both signed documents to list the
property for sale.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 12.) “The Shady Dell property went under
contract right away and escrow closed in late June 2022. Anthony signed all of
the escrow documents during the process, including the ‘Irrevocable
Instructions for Net Proceeds’ authorizing the proceeds to be disbursed via
check, and for Ms. Saenz to be called when the check was available so that she
could pick it up.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 12) 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that “Anthony knew full well that his
mother was going to be the only person receiving the proceeds from the sale. He
had paid no money toward the property and was never intended to be an equitable
owner of the property, at least not until after Ms. Saenz’s death. He and his
mother had an oral agreement that she would receive all of the funds from the
sale. Ms. Saenz picked up the check, deposited the proceeds in her account as
she and Anthony both had intended, and Anthony never complained about it.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 12.) 
“Ms. Saenz started looking into the purchase of a boat dock, and it
was then that she discovered that Lisa Vu had never recorded the deed
transferring the Banff property to the LLC.” (Cross-Compl., ¶13.) “On October
24, 2022, Ms. Saenz sued Lisa Vu for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty,
embezzlement, elder abuse, and declaratory relief. By December 13, 2022, Lisa
Vu…agreed to settle by selling the property and paying Ms. Saenz $265,000.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 14.) The Cross-Complaint alleges that “after the prior litigation
settled and Ms. Vu paid Ms. Saenz the amounts owed under the settlement
agreement, Anthony Saenz must have dreamed up a new way to involve his mother
in litigation to see if he could wrest more money out of her.” (Cross-Compl., ¶
15.) 
Prong One 
In
the motion, Anthony Saenz asserts that Emma Saenz’s Cross-Complaint is
subject to a special motion to strike because “the cross-claims arise only
because plaintiff’s [sic] filed suit against defendant.” (Mot. at p. 8:7-8.) Anthony Saenz
asserts that “by her cross-complaint, defendant seeks to punish
plaintiff for his exercise of the right of petition.” (Mot. at p. 8:17-18.) 
Anthony Saenz points to the following allegations in support of these
assertions: 
(1)
“[t]his action is merely a new form of elder financial abuse committed against
Ms. Saenz,” (2) “Mr. Saenz knows that his lawsuit is meritless,” (3) “the Court
should find in favor of Ms. Saenz for her claims of financial elder abuse and
award her damages, including attorneys’ fees, for having to defend herself
against her son’s meritless lawsuit,” (4) “Anthony Saenz’s frivolous lawsuit
against his mother is an attempt to take part of the proceeds from the sale of
his mother’s property from her,” (5) “[b]y refusing to dismiss his lawsuit,
even when presented with proof that his mother paid for everything related to
the Shady Dell property, Mr. Saenz is forcing his mother to spend money to defend
herself against his unmeritorious lawsuit, which constitutes elder financial
abuse,” and (6) “[n]ow Mr. Saenz is suing his mother, claiming an interest in
the property. That is a breach of their oral agreement regarding the property.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 16, 18, 20, 25.) 
In
the opposition, Emma Saenz argues that her “cross-complaint is
based, in part, on the fact that [Anthony Saenz] has sued her to try to gain
property that he is not entitled to, but Emma also alleges a history of events
that form the basis of her claims before [Anthony Saenz] filed his complaint.” (Opp’n
at p. viii:4-6.)[1]
In the first cause of
action for elder financial abuse, Emma Saenz alleges that “Anthony
Saenz’s frivolous lawsuit against his mother is an attempt to take part of the
proceeds from the sale of his mother’s property from her. He knows that he
never equitably owned any portion of the property. By refusing to dismiss
his lawsuit, even when presented with proof that his mother paid for
everything related to the Shady Dell property, Mr. Saenz is forcing his mother
to spend money to defend herself against his unmeritorious lawsuit, which
constitutes elder financial abuse.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 20, emphasis added.) The
Court agrees with Anthony Saenz that this cause of action arises from the
filing of his Complaint in the instant action. As discussed, as used in Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16, an “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue” includes, inter alia, “any written or oral statement or
writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (e)(1).)[2] 
In the second cause of action for breach of oral contract, Emma Saenz alleges that “Mr.
Saenz and Ms. Saenz both had an understanding, based on their oral
conversations, that the Shady Dell property was put into joint tenancy merely
as an estate planning vehicle, so that when Ms. Saenz passed away, assuming she
still owned the property, Mr. Saenz could inherit it from her. Ms. Saenz paid
all expenses for the property, including the entire purchase price for the
property. The oral understanding between them was always that Ms. Saenz would
own the property and pay for all of the expenses relating to it, and if she
still owned the property when she died, Mr. Saenz would inherit it. But if Ms.
Saenz decided she wanted to do something else with the property later, the
understanding was that her son wouldn’t contest that, since he had never
contributed anything to the property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 23.) 
Emma Saenz further
alleges in support of the second cause of action that “[w]hen Ms. Saenz
decided to sell the property later, her son willingly surrendered his title
interest in the property, consistent with their oral agreement. Mr. Saenz
agreed to sign the escrow paperwork and to permit his mother to retrieve the
sales proceeds and to deposit them in her own bank account consistent with that
agreement…Now Mr. Saenz is suing his mother, claiming an interest in the
property. That is a breach of their oral agreement regarding the property…”
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 24, 25, emphasis added.) The Court agrees with Anthony Saenz
that the second cause of action also arises from Anthony Saenz’s filing of the Complaint
in the instant action. 
In the third cause of action for declaratory relief, Emma Saenz alleges that “[a]n
actual controversy has arisen, and now exists between Cross-Complainant and
Cross-Defendants, and each of them, concerning their rights and duties, in that
Cross-Complainant contends that she is entitled to declaratory relief that she
was the sole equitable owner of the Shady Dell property, and the sole person
entitled to receive the proceeds from the sale of that property.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 27.) The Court does not find that Anthony Saenz has shown that
the declaratory relief cause of action arises from the filing of Anthony Saenz’s
Complaint in the instant action. In addition, Anthony Saenz’s arguments on this
point do not appear to reference the allegations of the declaratory relief
cause of action. (See Mot. at p. 8:7-22.) 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Anthony Saenz has met his burden of
demonstrating that the first and second causes of action of Emma Saenz’s
Cross-Complaint arise from protected
activity. The Court does not find that Anthony Saenz has met his burden
of demonstrating that the third cause of action of the Cross-Complaint arises
from protected activity. Therefore, the Court finds that the burden now shifts
to Emma Saenz on prong two
with respect to the first and second causes of action of the Cross-Complaint. 
B.    Prong Two – Probability of Prevailing
“[P]laintiff must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Premier Medical Management
Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 476 [internal quotations omitted].) In making the
prong two determination, “the court shall consider the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court does not, however, weigh [defendant’s] evidence against the
plaintiff’s, in terms of either credibility or persuasiveness. Rather, the
defendant’s evidence is considered with a view toward whether it defeats the
plaintiff’s showing as a matter of law, such as by establishing a defense or
the absence of a necessary element.” (1-800
Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.)
Anthony Saenz argues, inter alia, that “all of [Emma Saenz’s] cross-claims are barred by the litigation
privilege.” (Mot. at p. 14:18-19.) The Court notes that “[t]he litigation privilege is also relevant to the second
step in the anti-SLAPP analysis in that it may present a substantive defense a
plaintiff must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 323.) 
Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) states: “[a] privileged publication or broadcast is one
made . . . [i]n any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in
any other official proceeding authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or
course of any other proceeding authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to
Chapter 2.” 
In Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th
1048, 1057, cited by Anthony
Saenz, the California Supreme Court noted that “[a]lthough
originally enacted with reference to defamation, the privilege is now held
applicable to any communication, whether or not it amounts to a publication,
and all torts except malicious prosecution. Further, it applies to any
publication required or permitted by law in the course of a judicial proceeding
to achieve the objects of the litigation, even though the publication is made
outside the courtroom and no function of the court or its officers is involved…The usual formulation is that
the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or
quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized
by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some
connection or logical relation to the action. Thus, communications with some
relation to judicial proceedings are absolutely immune from tort liability by
the litigation privilege.” ([internal quotations and citations omitted].) “Pleadings
and process in a case are generally viewed as privileged communications.” (Navellier
v. Sletten (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
763, 770.) 
Anthony Saenz asserts that his “complaint, its allegations and its
filing and prosecution are all communications and/or necessarily related acts
protected by the litigation privilege…Therefore, plaintiff has absolute
immunity against each of defendant’s cross-claims. For these reasons, defendant
cannot prevail on her cross-complaint or cross-claims.” (Mot. at p. 15:3-6.) 
In the opposition, Emma Saenz contends that “[t]he litigation
privilege does not bar all of Emma’s claims. As described above, the facts
underpinning many of her claims are rooted in a history that arose before the
commencement of litigation. The Court should not ignore those other facts and
focus solely on the harm Emma claims as a result of Tony’s frivolous complaint
against her.” (Opp’n at p. x:19-22.) 
However, as discussed, the Court agrees with Anthony Saenz that the
first and second causes of action of Emma Saenz’s Cross-Complaint arise from
the filing of Anthony Saenz’s Complaint in the instant action. As set forth
above, Emma Saenz alleges in the elder financial abuse cause of action that “[b]y
refusing to dismiss his lawsuit, even when presented with proof that his mother
paid for everything related to the Shady Dell property, Mr. Saenz is forcing
his mother to spend money to defend herself against his unmeritorious lawsuit,
which constitutes elder financial abuse.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 20.) In the breach
of contract cause of action, Emma Saenz alleges that “Mr. Saenz is suing his
mother, claiming an interest in the property. That is a breach of their oral
agreement regarding the property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 25.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Emma Saenz has failed to establish a probability of prevailing
on her first cause of action for elder financial abuse and her second cause of
action for breach of oral contract. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Anthony Saenz’s special
motion to strike as to the first and second causes of action of Emma Saenz’s Cross-Complaint. The Court denies Anthony
Saenz’s special motion to strike as to the third cause of action of Emma Saenz’s Cross-Complaint. 
Because of the mixed outcome of the
anti-SLAPP motion, the Court reserves its determination on the question of
attorney’s fees pending a noticed motion on the issue of which party is the
prevailing party and what attorney’s fees and costs are recoverable.
///
///
Anthony Saenz is ordered to give notice of
this Order.  
 
DATED:  April 16, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


