 Case Number:  22PSCV03008    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Unverified Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Unverified Complaint and Motion to Strike
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Complaint are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in
Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to
file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at
least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer and
Motion to Strike.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action. In January 2021,
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano was climbing a ladder at a property in La Puente
when Delgado Serano slipped and fell. Delgado Serano alleges the property was
owned, maintained, managed, and operated by Defendants Mian Construction and Al
Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc. (Al Bayaan).
 
On December 20, 2022, Delgado Serano filed a complaint
against Mian Construction, Al Bayaan, and Does 1-10, alleging (1) premises
liability and (2) general negligence.
 
On January 16, 2024, Al Bayaan filed the present demurrer
and motion to strike. On the same day, Al Bayaan’s counsel attempted to meet
and confer by sending an email to Delgado Serano’s counsel. (Josephson Decl., ¶
5-6.)
 
A hearing on the present demurrer and motion to strike is
set for March 4, 2024, along with a case management conference.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Al Bayaan demurs to Delgado Serano’s entire Complaint. For the following
reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Al
Bayaan’s counsel filed a declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and
confer by sending an email to Delgado Serano’s counsel on January 16,
2024. (Josephson Decl., ¶ 5.)
Because Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41 places the burden to meet and confer
telephonically or in-person on Al Bayaan’s counsel, the court finds this
attempt insufficient as Al Bayaan’s counsel did not attempt to reach out to Delgado
Serano’s counsel over the telephone
or in-person and a letter is not a code-compliant form of meeting and
conferring. The court also notes the attempt to meet and confer was untimely as
Al Bayaan’s counsel was supposed to meet and confer at least five days before
the demurrer was due.[1] (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2) Thus,
the court finds a continuance of the hearing on Al Bayaan’s demurrer and motion
to strike is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Al Bayaan’s demurrer and motion to
strike are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department
G (Pomona).
 
Al Bayaan’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Delgado Serano’s counsel
regarding the demurrer and motion to strike and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike.


