  Case Number:  22PSCV00799    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant General Motors, LLC’s Motion to Tax
Counsel’s Memorandum of Costs
Respondent: Plaintiff Manuel
Meza, Jr.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant General Motors, LLC’s Motion to Tax
Counsel’s Memorandum of Costs is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART.
BACKGROUND
This
is a lemon law action. In September 2018, Plaintiff Manuel Meza, Jr. entered
into a warranty contract with Defendant General Motors, LLC (General Motors) by
purchasing a 2018 Chevrolet Camaro. Subsequently during the warranty period, Meza
alleges the vehicle developed defects with its transmission system.
On
July 29, 2022, Meza filed a complaint against General Motors and Does 1-50,
alleging (1)¿violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d); (2)
violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b); (3) violation of Civil
Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3); (4) breach of express warranty; and
(5) breach of implied warranty of merchantability.
On
September 29, 2023, General Motors sent Meza a settlement offer that Meza
accepted on October 31. On January 5, 2024, Meza submitted a memorandum of
costs. On January 18, General Motors filed the present motion.
A
hearing on the present motion is set for March 4, 2024, with a final status
conference on May 1 and a jury trial on May 21.
ANALYSIS
General
Motors moves to tax Meza’s memorandum of costs with regards to requests for
$167.29 in jury fees, $404 in service of process costs, $12.34 in notice of
change of address costs, and $384.91 in discovery motion costs. For the
following reasons, the court GRANTS General Motors’s motion as to Meza’s request for
service of process costs and discovery motion costs and DENIES General Motors’s motion on
all other grounds.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Rule 3.1700, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a party may
contest costs through a motion to strike or tax costs. “If the items appearing
in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking
to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other
hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the
burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.” (Ladas v.
California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774 (Ladas).)
In addition to items allowable as costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, subdivision (a), the court has discretion to award other costs
if not prohibited by Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (b)
and “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” (Ladas, supra, 19
Cal.App.4th at p. 774, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).)
Jury Fees
In
Meza’s memorandum of costs, Meza claims $167.29 in fees for a notice of case
management conference and posting of jury fees. General Motors argues this cost
should be stricken because the present case has not gone to trial. But General
Motors fails to provide any authority that limits the recovery of jury fees as
costs to cases where a jury trial was held. Because jury fees are recoverable
as costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision
(a)(1), the court DENIES General Motors’s motion to tax this cost.
Service of Process Costs
Meza’s
memorandum of costs claims $404 in costs for the service of Felix Chevrolet.
General Motors contends this cost should be stricken because this cost
references the service of deposition notices on Felix Chevrolet, a non-party to
this action. (Quezada Decl., ¶ 5.) General Motors also notes that Meza never
actually conducted a deposition of Felix Chevrolet’s employees. (Quezada Decl.,
¶ 5.) In response, Meza fails to provide any argument or explanation as to why the
deposition of Felix Chevrolet was reasonably necessary for the case against
General Motors. Thus, the court GRANTS General Motors’s motion to tax this cost.
Notice of Change in Address Costs
Meza’s
memorandum of costs claims $12.34 in costs for notice of change of address
filed with the court. General Motors maintains this cost should be stricken
because it is a business overhead cost and unrelated to the litigation of
Meza’s claims. But General Motors fails to provide any authority for this argument
and the court notes filing fees are recoverable as costs. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (a)(1).) Thus, the court DENIES General Motors’s motion to
tax this cost.
Discovery Motion Costs
Last,
Meza’s memorandum of costs claims $384.91 in costs for Meza’s motion to compel
further discovery and the informal discovery conference. General Motors argues
this cost should be stricken because the costs were optional and Meza’s motion
practice was one-sided and unnecessary. General Motors also argues Meza has
failed to provide sufficient information to support such costs. On the second
point, the court agrees as Meza’s memorandum of costs appears to
inappropriately lump the filing fees for all of Meza’s discovery motions into
one entry. And while Meza provided invoices for these costs in a declaration,
Meza has failed to organize them coherently and include specific itemizations
of the costs for each filing. Thus, the court GRANTS General Motors’s motion to
tax this cost.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, General
Motors’s motion to tax costs is GRANTED as to Meza’s request for service of process
fees and discovery motion costs and DENIED
on all other grounds.