

 
Background 
 
            On
August 9, 2023, Relator Allstate Insurance Company (“Allstate”), on behalf of
itself and on behalf of the People of the State of California (the “State”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Encino Open MRI, Inc., Burbank
Imaging & Open MRI, Inc., Southern California Medical Imaging & Open
MRI, Inc. d/b/a SoCal Imaging and Open MRI, SoCal MRI Centers LLC d/b/a
Montclair Open MRI, Total MRI, LLC dba Santa Clarita MRI, LA MRI Center, Inc. (collectively
“Entity Defendants”), Harry Golbahar, Akhtar Golbahar, Nick Golbahar, Bobak
Kardan, (collectively “Owner Defendants”), Stanton Kremsky, M.D., Alexander
Grimm, M.D.,  Ranon Udkoff, M. (collectively
“Professional Defendants”), and Does 1 to 200. The Complaint alleges that, as
early as 2016, Owner and Entity Defendants defrauded Allstate by presenting
more than $5 million in false bills for sham diagnostic radiology services they
provided but were not licensed to render. 
 
The alleged scheme is
as follows: Owner and Entity Defendants hired “sham” medical directors who
appeared to be supervising the imaging services, yet in reality, the
non-physician Owner Defendants exercised complete control. Owner Defendants
would obtain patient referrals from providers, personal injury attorneys, or
others. Non-physician radiologic technologists would perform the MRI imaging on
patients. Then, independent licensed teleradiologists, the Professional
Defendants, would review the images and provide their professional opinion to
help legitimize the claim. Owner Defendants paid Professional Defendants on a
discounted basis in exchange for patient referrals—the practice is called patient
“steering.” Owner Defendants were then able to inflate the bill price and
collect the bulk of the insurance claim payments. Such payments are referred to
as “kickbacks.” The Complaint alleges Owner and Entity Defendants’ fraudulent
scheme has allowed them to pocket extraordinary sums. The Complaint alleges two
causes of action: (1) Violations of the California Insurance Fraud Prevention
Act (IFPA) (Insurance Code Section 1871.7) and (2) Violations of the Unfair
Competition Law (UCL) (Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq.). 
 
            On
August 1, 2024, the parties filed a Stipulation and Protective Order to allow
the parties to designate confidential documents, testimony, or information that
each party believes in good faith to contain information entitled to
confidential treatment. 
 
            On
August 8, 2024, Allstate issued a deposition subpoena (“Subpoena”) to Wells
Fargo Bank (“Wells Fargo”), which requested all documents related to accounts
owned by Burbank Imaging and Open MRI, Inc. (“Burbank Imaging”) from January 1,
2026 to present (“Account Records”). (Kohli Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A; Steele Decl., ¶
3.) 
            
On August 29, 2024, Defendants
LA MRI Center, Inc., Burbank Imaging, Total MRI, LLC d/b/a Santa Clarita MRI,
Akhtar Golbahar, and Nicky Golbahar (sued as Nick Golbahar) (“Movants”) filed
this Motion to Quash Allstate’s Subpoena served on Wells Fargo (“Motion”).
 
On October 17, 2024,
Allstate filed the opposition. 
 
No reply has been filed as of October 24, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 states the
following: 
 
“(a)
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” 
 
Subdivision (b)(1) permits a party to seek relief. 
 
Discussion 
 
            The parties dispute issues regarding
(1) the Subpoena’s relevance, breadth, and burden on Wells Fargo, (2) Burbank
Imaging’s privacy interests in the Account Information, (3) whether the
Subpoena seeks privileged information, and (4) the Subpoena’s procedural
deficiencies. 
 
 
Procedural Deficiencies
 
In the opposition, Allstate argues that Movants failed to
serve the California Department of Insurance (CDI), in violation of Insurance
Code Section 1871, subdivision (f)(3). CDI requested to receive notice of all
pleadings when it declined to intervene in the suit. (See January 3, 2024 CDI
Notice of Non-Intervention, p. 3.)
 
Insurance Code Section 1871, subdivision (f)(3) states that
“[i]f the district attorney or commissioner elects not to proceed with the
action, the person who initiated the action shall have the right to conduct the
action. If the district attorney or commissioner so requests, he or she shall
be served with copies of all pleadings filed in the action. . .” 
 
The Court finds Movants failed to serve CDI as requested.
(Proof of Service, at p.3)
 
Further, Allstate argues Movants failed to meet and confer
before filing this Motion. California Code of Civil Procedure
section¿2025.410(c) provides that a motion to quash a deposition notice must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. Movants did not meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office. (Steele Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court thus finds Movants have not met the meet and
confer requirement. Nevertheless, the Court will continue to analyze the Motion
on the merits. 
 
Relevance, Breadth, and Burden
 
Movants argues the Subpoena is
overbroad and seeks information outside the scope of information relating to
services Movants submitted as claims to Allstate. Movants also argue the
request is overly burdensome on Wells Fargo. In opposition, Allstate argues the
Subpoena seeks relevant evidence of Movants’ unlawful medical practice and
billing, appointment and compensation of “sham” medical directors, unlawful
kickbacks and patient referrals, and false bills to insurers. (Compl., ¶¶ 2-3,
12, 102, 119, 123, 141.) Further, Allstate argues the Subpoena will provide
information regarding Owner Defendants’ (1) alter ego status, (2) fraudulent
intent, and (3) relationships with potential witnesses that shared in the
fraudulent scheme. The Subpoena will also aid Allstate in determining its
monetary remedies under IFPA. 
 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
settlement.¿¿(Gonzalez v. Superior Court¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.)¿¿Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010;¿Schnabel v. Superior Court¿(1993)
5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)¿¿ 
 
The Court finds that the Account
Records the Subpoena seeks are relevant. The Account Records will reveal
essential information as to whether Burbank Imaging engaged in illegal
kickbacks and how much Owner Defendant benefitted from such practices. (See Compl.,
¶¶ 11, 64, 102-104.) Such information is relevant to determine Allstate’s
remedies under IFPA. The Account Records may also reveal how much Burbank
Imaging paid its Medical Director, Dr. Harris Newark III, and whether the
compensation supports the contention that he was hired as a “sham” medical
director to help conceal Burbank Imaging’s unlicensed status. (See Compl., ¶¶
7, 99-101.) In sum, the Account Records contain information essential to
proving Allstate’s claims.
 
The Court finds the Subpoena is not overly broad. The
Subpoena seeks Burbank Imaging’s Account Records from January 1, 2026 to
present. The Complaint alleges all Defendants were engaged in the fraudulent
scheme as early as 2016. (Compl., ¶¶ 56, 120, 123). The Court thus finds the
length of time covered by the Subpoena is directly related to Defendants’ alleged
misconduct in the Complaint. As to the burden on Wells Fargo, Wells Fargo has
not objected to the Subpoena. (Steele Decl., ¶ 5.) Therefore, the Subpoena is neither overly broad nor
burdensome. 
 
Privacy 
 
            Movants argue the Subpoena seeks
financial information that would violate Burbank Imaging’s financial privacy
rights and the rights of third parties Burbank Imaging has transacted with. Allstate
argues that the disclosure of Burbank Imaging’s Account Records does not invade
privacy rights related to an individual’s personal autonomy, so Allstate
need not have a compelling interest in disclosure. Nevertheless, Allstate
interest in combatting alleged insurance fraud via this qui tam lawsuit, on
behalf of all Californians, is compelling. Lastly, Burbank Imaging has no
legitimate expectation of privacy in property gained through a fraudulent
scheme. 
 
The state
Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const.,
art. I, § 1.) The California Supreme Court has “established a framework for
evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. [Citation] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.)
 
The
California Supreme Court has recognized a privacy right for financial
information, although it is not absolute. (Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior
Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656.) In Valley Bank of Nevada, the California
Supreme Court found that the following should be considered by the trial court
in balancing the interests between the right of civil litigants to discover
relevant facts and the right of bank customers to maintain reasonable privacy
regarding their financial affairs: “. . . the purpose of the information
sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the parties and on the trial,
the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting disclosure, and
ability of the court to make an alternative order which may grant partial
disclosure, disclosure in another form, or disclosure only in the event that
the party seeking the information undertakes certain specified burdens which
appear just under the circumstances.” (Id. at 658.)  The
privacy right to protect financial information may only be overcome if a
legislatively declared public policy applies. (Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 721 (finding an exception to privacy privilege for
financial information in proceedings to enforce child support orders).)
 
In
balancing Burbank Imaging’s interest in protecting its financial information
against Allstate’ interests in discovery, the Court finds Allstate’ interests
prevail. The Legislature, in enacting the Insurance Fraud Prevention Act, has
identified a compelling interest in preventing insurance fraud. (Ins. Code § 1871; see also People ex
rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v. Weitzman (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 534,
548 (finding
IFPA’s purpose is “to deter fraudulent automobile insurance claims and to facilitate the
investigation and prosecution of insurance fraud”). Movants have not provided
any evidence to support why Burbank Imaging’s financial privacy concerns
outweigh this compelling interest. Further, the Court finds that the
Stipulation and Protective Order will mitigate any privacy concerns by Burbank
Imaging and third parties who transacted with Burbank Imaging. 
 
Privilege
 
            Movants
argue the Subpoena requests information covered by the attorney-client
privilege. Specifically, the Account Records encompass confidential payments
and correspondence to counsel. Movants argue that Wells Fargo’s involvement
does not destroy the privilege because any disclosures were necessary for
Burbank to consult its counsel. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the Account
Records are not covered by attorney-client privilege because the bank
statements showing payments to counsel are not “confidential communications.”
Burbank Imaging waived its attorney-client privilege by giving Wells Fargo
access to this information. Lastly, Burbank Imaging waived any privileged
information to the extent Defendants rely on the advice of counsel
defense—i.e., Movants’ defense that they relied on counsel’s representations to
determine their scheme was legal waives their ability to assert attorney-client
privilege as to the Account Records. (See
Defendants’ 8/15/2024 Report Re: Proposal for Phasing Litigation, at p.3.)
 
“The party claiming the privilege
has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to support its
exercise, i.e., a communication made in the course of an attorney-client
relationship.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47
Cal.4th 725, 733.) “Once that party establishes facts necessary to support a
prima facie claim of privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made
in confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of
proof to establish the communication was not confidential or that the privilege
does not for other reasons apply. (Ibid.)
 
            The
Court finds that the Account Records are not covered by the attorney-client
privilege. Bank statements, like client invoices, are only privileged to the
extent they contain communications “made for the purpose of seeking or
delivering the attorney's legal advice or representation.” (See Los Angeles
County Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282, 293.) Movants
have provided no evidence that Burbank Imaging’s account was used to correspond
with counsel, or even to pay counsel. The Court finds that if there are any privileged
communications contained in the Account Records, Movants can designate those
communications in a privilege log. The Court need not address Allstate’s
argument regarding the advice of counsel defense because the Account Records likely
do not contain any communications in which counsel gave advice regarding the
legality of Movants’ scheme. (See Transamerica Title Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1047, 1053 (“the deliberate injection of the
advice of counsel into a case waives the attorney-client privilege as to
communications and documents relating to the advice.”).)
 
Conclusion
 
            The
Court DENIES the Motion to Quash Allstate’s Subpoena on Wells Fargo.