 Case Number:  23STCV19069    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  74 People of the State of California v. Ultimate Host, LLC, et al.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Preliminary Injunction
 
The court considered the moving
papers. No opposition was timely filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b)
[“All papers opposing a motion […] shall be filed with the court and a copy
served on each party at least nine court days […] before the hearing.”].) 
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from
unruly parties at properties that serve as short-term rentals.
            On August 10, 2023, the
People of the State of California (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Ultimate Host, LLC and Mokhtar Jabli (Defendants), in addition to 5554 Green
Oak, LLC and Kirill Ayzenberg. The complaint alleges the following causes of
action: (1) violation of California’s unfair competition law and (2) public
nuisance.
            On October 24, 2023,
Plaintiff filed this motion for a preliminary injunction.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks an preliminary injunction that enjoins Defendants from
(1) engaging in any short-term rental activity within the City of Los Angeles
in a manner that does not comply with the Short-Term Rental Ordinance and (2)
hosting, organizing, or sponsoring events or parties within the City of Los
Angeles that violate the Party House Ordinance, or permitting such events or
parties to occur at residences that Defendants lease, rent, or otherwise
control.
            “As its name suggests, a
preliminary injunction is an order that is sought by a plaintiff prior to a
full adjudication of the merits of its claim.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30
Cal.4th 528, 554.) “In determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction,
the trial court considers: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will
prevail on the merits and (2) the interim harm to the respective parties if an
injunction is granted or denied. The moving party must prevail on both factors
to obtain an injunction.” (Pittsburg Unified School Dist. v. S.J. Amoroso
Construction Co., Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 808, 813-814.) “The trial
court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and
interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff's showing on one, the less must
be shown on the other….” (Church of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior Court
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1244, 1251-1252.) The burden is on the party seeking
injunctive relief to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a
preliminary injunction. (O'Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)
            Likelihood of Success
on the Merits.
            A preliminary injunction
must not issue unless it is “reasonably probable that the moving party will
prevail on the merits.” (San Francisco Newspaper Printing Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442.) The “likelihood of success on the
merits and the balance-of-harms analysis are ordinarily ‘interrelated’ factors
in the decision whether to issue a preliminary injunction.” (White v. Davis,
supra, 30 Cal.4th at p. 561.) “The presence or absence of each factor is
usually a matter of degree, and if the party seeking the injunction can make a
sufficiently strong showing of likelihood of success on the merits, the trial
court has discretion to issue the injunction notwithstanding that party's
inability to show that the balance of harms tips in his favor.” (Ibid.)  
            Here, the court finds
that Plaintiff has demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of prevailing on the
merits. The first cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is for violation of
the Unfair Competition Law, which prohibits unlawful business practices. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200.) In support, Plaintiff directs the court to several
violations of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. First, Defendants operate more
than one short-term rental. (Reese Decl., ¶ 24; Ex. C, ¶ 4; Muhtar Decl., ¶¶
26-31; LAMC, § 12.22, subd. (A)(32)(c)(2) [“No person may […] operate more than
one Home-Sharing Rental Unit at a time in the City of Los Angeles.”].) Second,
some of Defendants’ properties do not have valid home-sharing registration
numbers or pending registration status numbers. (Summers Decl., ¶ 11; LAMC, §
12.22, subd. (A)(d)(1)-(2) [“A Host may not participate in Home-Sharing unless
all advertisements clearly list the City-issued Home Sharing registration
number or pending registration status number.”].) Third, some of Defendants’
properties host loud parties. (Muhtar Decl., ¶ 13; Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 23-25; LAMC,
§ 12.22, subd. (A)(32)(d)(12) [“There shall be no use of sound amplifying
equipment […] after 10:00 p.m. and no evening outdoor congregations of more
than 8 people […] during Home-Sharing Activities.”].) And fourth, Defendants
have violated the Party House Ordinance, which applies to “[a]ny person who
rents, leases, or otherwise is in charge of the Residence where a Loud or
Unruly Gathering occurs […].” (LAMC, § 41.58.1, subd. (a)(9).) Any party that
generates noise in violation of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is prohibited.
(LAMC, § 41.58.1, subd. (a)(3).) Noise violates the Los Angeles Municipal code
if it unreasonably disturbs the peace and quiet of a neighborhood. (LAMC, §
116.01.) Here, parties at Defendants’ properties have caused such noise
disturbances, which led neighbors to call the police. (Muhtar Decl., § 19;
Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 8-18.) 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges a cause of action for public nuisance. Under Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 11.00, subdivision (l), any violation of the
municipal code is declared to be a public nuisance. Moreover, “where the law
expressly declares something to be a nuisance, then no inquiry beyond its
existence need be made and in this sense its mere existence is said to be a
nuisance per se.” (People v. ConAgra Grocery Products Co. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 51, 114.) Thus, Defendants’ violations of the municipal code
constitute a nuisance per se. 
            Given the foregoing,
Plaintiff has demonstrated a reasonable probability of prevailing on the
merits.
Interim Harm to the Parties.
            “To obtain a preliminary
injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present evidence of the
irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an injunction is not
issued pending an adjudication of the merits.”¿(White, supra, 30 Cal.4th
at p. 554.) “In evaluating interim harm, the trial court compares the injury to
the plaintiff in the absence of an injunction to the injury the defendant is
likely to suffer if an injunction is issued.” (Shoemaker v. County of Los
Angeles (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 633.) 

            As noted above, “[i]n
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, the trial court
considers: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will prevail on the merits
and (2) the interim harm to the respective parties if an injunction is granted
or denied. The moving party must prevail on both factors to obtain an
injunction.” (Pittsburg Unified School Dist. v. S.J. Amoroso Construction
Co., Inc, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at pp. 813-814.) 
            Here, Plaintiff argues
that the public will be harmed if the court does not issue a preliminary
injunction. That is, Defendants’ management of the properties has resulted in
an ongoing threat to public safety. For example, partygoers at one property
smoke and enjoy open bonfires in very high fire hazard severity zones. (Reese
Decl., ¶¶ 12-13; Muhtari Decl., ¶¶ 20-23, 36.) Moreover, parties have led to
blocked streets and driveways, which would make it difficult for emergency
services to access the neighborhood. (Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 23-24.) Defendants’
properties have also been sites of criminal activity. (Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)
If the parties at Defendant’s properties continue, the public will continue to
suffer harm absent a preliminary injunction.
            Defendants, for their
part, have not demonstrated they would suffer any harm from the injunction in a
timely opposition. The balance of harm therefore tips in Plaintiff’s favor.
CONCLUSION 
            The court grants
Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction and will sign Plaintiff’s
proposed order filed on October 24, 2023.
Plaintiff shall give notice.