  Case Number:  19STCV40317    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  14 BACKGROUNDThis action is the second of two cases between these parties.  On or around April 9, 2018, Plaintiffs Nathan Johnson (“Johnson”) and Shari Edwards (“Edwards”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) entered into a Settlement Agreement to settle their first case against Defendant Stoneyhill Security Association (“Stoneyhill” or “HOA”) which concerned an initial homeowner/HOA dispute between the parties.  Plaintiffs action concerned the issue of Defendant’s disparate enforcement of parking regulations against Plaintiff within the HOA.  Thus, Plaintiffs filed their first action in an effort to resolve the ongoing issues between the parties which then resulted in the parties entering into the April 9, 2018, Settlement Agreement in an attempt to resolve their dispute without requiring the court’s intervention.  In conjunction, the parties also executed a stipulated judgment for $70,000 which the parties agreed would only be filed if the Plaintiffs parked on the street more than twice in one month during the 2018 calendar year. However, in May of 2019, Plaintiff Edwards underwent spinal surgery and became temporarily unable to navigate confined spaces while she was recovering due to impaired mobility and having to wear a restrictive neck brace.  Given Plaintiffs had three cars parked in their one driveway, Plaintiff Edwards’ surgeon advised that Plaintiffs be permitted to park on the street to allow Edwards to walk in a straight line from her vehicle to her home.  Thus, Edward’s surgeon provided a formal notice to the HOA, requesting that Defendant HOA accommodate Plaintiff Edwards’ disability by permitting one of Plaintiffs’ cars be parked on the street for a 90-day temporary basis while she was recovering.  The HOA thereafter denied Plaintiffs’ application on the grounds that Plaintiffs needed to remediate and remodel their garage instead. As such, the HOA began to ticket Plaintiffs and the stipulated judgment was subsequently triggered due to Plaintiffs’ technical breach.Accordingly, Plaintiffs filed their second suit between the parties on November 7, 2019 for breach of written settlement agreement.  On August 13, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Stoneybrook/HOA, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of written settlement agreement; (2) violations of the fair housing act; (3) violation of FEHA; and (4) violation of California Disabled Persons Act.  The FAC is now the operative complaint. Plaintiffs’ Deposition Non-AppearancesOn December 20, 2022, Plaintiff Edwards failed to appear for her noticed deposition and the Court subsequently granted Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Edwards’ Deposition on October 31, 2023. (Declaration of Defendant’s Counsel, Justin Nash (“Nash Decl.”) ¶¶ 6-7.) However, the Court denied Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Johnson’s deposition because Defendant had failed to demonstrate the non-appearance of Plaintiff Johnson.  (Nash Decl., ¶ 8.)  Between October 31, 2023 and March 15, 2024, the parties agreed to delay Plaintiff Johnson’s deposition in order to facilitate settlement discussions.  (Nash Decl., ¶ 8.) On March 18, 2024, Defendant HOA then noticed Plaintiff Johnson’s deposition for April 3, 2024.  (Nash Decl., ¶9, Ex. 1.)   The parties then mutually agreed to continue the deposition to April 8, 2024 in order to yet again facilitate further settlement discussions.  (Nash Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 2.)  Plaintiff’s counsel further confirmed the April 8, 2024, deposition.  However, on April 8, 2024, when Defendant’s Counsel and Court reporter appeared at 10:00 AM for Plaintiff Johnson’s deposition, Plaintiff Johnson failed to appear.  (Nash Decl., ¶¶ 11-12, Ex. 3.)  Accordingly, the Court reporter took notice of Plaintiff Johnson’s non-appearance.  (Id.) Defendant then filed the instant motion to Compel Plaintiff Johnson’s Deposition on April 25, 2024, along with the Declaration of Defendant’s Counsel, Justin Nash, requesting the Court (1) order both Plaintiff Johnson and Plaintiff Edwards to appear for depositions; and (2) award sanctions in the sum of $1866 against Johnson and Johnson’s counsel of record, jointly, and order evidentiary sanctions in the event Johnson fails to appear for deposition.  (Defendant’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Johnson (“Mot. Compel Depo.”), pg. 7.) Plaintiff Johnson did not file an opposition.  DISCUSSIONApplicable LawCompel DepositionAny party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or to produce for inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) A motion brought to compel a deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)The court, on motion of any party, may grant leave to complete discovery of to have a motion concerning discovery heard closer to the initial trial date. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)On motion of any other party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in the expectation that the deponent's testimony would be taken, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.)Application to Facts            Motion to Compel DepositionDefendant alleges that the April 3, 2024 Notice of Plaintiff Johnson’s Deposition served as Defendant’s eighth amended notice to compel Plaintiff Johnson’s deposition and that Johnson did not object to such notice.  (Nash Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)  Defendant also alleges that from August 26, 2021 through approximately December 10, 2022, Counsel engaged in multiple meet and confer efforts in order agree to a mutually convenient time and place for Johnson’s deposition.  (Id.)  However, Defendant’s instant motion to compel deposition must be accompanied by either a meet and confer declaration or by a declaration stating that Defendant has contacted deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.   Although the Court finds that Defendant has furnished the certificate of nonappearance, Defendant has not evidenced an attempt to meet and confer or inquire about Plaintiff’s nonappearance after his failure to appear on April 8, 2024.  As this is required per code sections 2016.040 and 2025.450 of Code of Civil Procedure, the Court may not grant Defendant’s motion to compel in its absence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)Additionally, while the Court acknowledges Defendant’s request to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Edwards in the conclusion of Defendant’s instant motion, the Court finds that Defendant has not asserted the relevant legal authority, nor provided the relevant evidence, to file a motion to compel compliance with the court’s order. As such, the Court cannot grant Defendant’s request with respect to Plaintiff Edwards either.  Request for SanctionsDefendant’s Counsel, Justin Nash declares he is a nineth-year attorney with over eight years of litigation experience that specifically relates to homeowners’ associations.   (Nash Decl., ¶ 14.)  Counsel Nash states his office billed at a substantially reduced rate of $190 per hour in this matter, despite $400 per hour being the industry standard rate. (Id.)  Further, Nash states he has spent (1) 1 hour meeting and conferring with counsel regarding the issues pertaining to the instant motion, (2) 5 hours preparing the motion, accompanying declaration, and exhibits; and (3) anticipates spending a further 1.5 reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition, 1.5 hours preparing the Reply, 2 hours attending hearing and preparing for the hearing.  (Nash Decl., ¶ 15.). The filing fee for the motion is $61.  (Id.). Thus, Defendant estimates $1,866 to prosecute this motion and therefore requests sanctions in that amount.  As Defendant has failed to fulfill the requirements for its Motion to Compel Plaintiff Johnson’s deposition, the Court cannot yet make a determination as to Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.  However, the Court does note that Defendant has requested for sanctions, in part, for fees it did not end up incurring because Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s motion and thus, Defendant did not file a reply.  Additionally, the Court stated in the April 11, 2024 Minute Order that the Court was not yet inclined to issue monetary sanctions (nor terminating, nor evidentiary) because despite being aware of Plaintiffs disobeying two court orders (which concerned permitting Defendant to inspect their property), the Court is more inclined to determine appropriate sanctions for Plaintiff’s disobedience at trial, when information is most complete and the court is best able to tailor its responses. CONCLUSION            Defendant Stoneybrook’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Johnson’s Deposition is DENIED without prejudice.            Defendant Stoneybrook to give notice.