 Case Number:  23STCP04176    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  14 In the Matter of Paul RicchiutiCase Background
 
Petitioner seeks a court order
declaring that various names used by his grandfather belonged to “one and the
same person.”
 
On November 8, 2023, Petitioner
filed his verified Petition for Declaratory Relief. No respondent or other
party is named.
 
No trial date has been set.
 
Instant Motions
 
This is a petition action. This is the
date the court has set for the hearing on the petition, which forms the moving
papers.
 
This petition first came on for hearing
on April 9, 2024. The Court continued the hearing and ordered Petitioner to
file supplemental papers, which are to include at least (1) a proposed
order/judgment in the form Petitioner seeks and (2) a brief or declaration
discussing this court’s jurisdiction and identifying any other instances where
such an order/judgment has been issued or authorized by California courts.
(4/9/24 Minute Order.)
 
On April 26, 2024, Petitioner filed a
proposed order, a supplemental brief, and a request for judicial notice of
other instances where a similar order/judgment was issued.
 
Decision
 
            The
petition is GRANTED.
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner is trying to secure
recognition of his birthright citizenship from the nation of Italy. In order to
do so, he must prove that he is descended from someone who was an Italian
citizen. And in order to do that, he must submit documents tracing his descent.
As is not uncommon, the names of Petitioner’s ancestors are not given quite the
same way in every record. Apparently, where there is a discrepancy between the
names in the records, Italian law requires a court order finding that the
different names refer to “one and the same person.” Petitioner refers to this
Italian law as the “civil law doctrine of jure sanguinis Italian Law 555/1912,
Art. 7 (blood line citizenship).” (Supp. Brief, 1:17-18.) 
 
Petitioner is here now to ask the court
to issue the order he needs to take back to the Italian authorities. Petitioner
proposes the following order: 
 
The Court, having reviewed Petitioner’s
Petition and Attachments filed in
support thereof, and proof having been
made to the satisfaction of the Court, the
Court finds, adjudges and orders as
follows:
 
Petitioner’s grandfather, MARIO
ATTILIO RICCHIUTI, also identified
as MICHAEL ATTILLO RICCI, MICHAEL
ATTILLEO RICCI, MICHAEL
ATTILIO RICCI,
MARIO ATTILIO DOMENICO RICCHIUTI, MARIO
ATTILIO RICCHIUTI,
and MARIO RICCHIUTI are one and the same person.
 
(Proposed
Order.) Petitioner refers to the order as a “One and the Same” order.
 
Petitioner requests judicial notice of
ten orders issued by trial courts across California in similar actions
for Declaratory Relief relating to dual citizenship in California.
Evidence Code § 452(d) provides that “[j]udicial notice may be taken of
. . . records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United Sates or of any state of the United States.”  (Evid. Code § 452(d).)  Section 452 provides a proper basis for
judicial notice of the requested documents. 
 
            None of the
orders identify a statutory basis, but these precedents do show that the court
has jurisdiction over the matter.
 
            To
establish that his grandfather went by all the names listed above, Petitioner
submitted (1) a birth certificate (Petitioner, Exh. 1), (2) his Declaration of
Intention dated May 14, 1918 (Exh. 2), (3) his Certificate of Nationalization
(Exh. 3), (4) his Navy Discharge papers (Exh. 4), and (5) the 1915 Rhode Island
State Census. Together, the papers corroborate Petitioner’s grandfathers, date
and place of birth and Rhode Island address.
 
Conclusion 
 
            The
petition is GRANTED.