 Case Number:  BC613244    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  14 Mego v. NulifeCase Background
 
On March 10, 2016, Plaintiff Gustavo
Mego filed his Complaint for various violations of the Labor Code against
Defendants Nulife Recovery, LLC (“Nulife Recovery”), Kage Njaka (“Njaka”), J.D.
Meints (“Meints”) and DOES 1-50. 
 
On December 4, 2017, the defaults
of Defendants Nulife Recovery, Njaka, and Meints were entered.
 
On February 8, 2018, this court
entered default judgment against Defendants Nulife Recovery, LLC, Kage Njaka,
and J.D. Meints and in favor of Plaintiff, awarding $219,056.67. On the same
date, this court ordered that Defendant DOES 1-50 be dismissed.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Judgment
Creditor now moves this court for an order instructing Judgment Debtor Meints
to assign assets pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 708.51, which include
the following: “accrued interest through the date of payment, Debtor’s
interest, right to payment due, or to become due, in wages, salaries, rent,
referral fees, advances, bonuses, royalties, commissions, payments in general,
payments from rent, investments, refinances, transfers, encumbrances, payments
from a patent or copyright, advances, accounts receivable, general intangibles
(as defined by Cal. U. Com. Code, § 9102,(a)(42), judgments, instruments (as
defined by Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510,(a) and the comment to Code Civ. Proc., §
708.510), etc. (the “Funds”) from all third parties, including, but not limited
to Kleer Health Technologies, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company.”
(Notice of Motion at pg. iv.)
 
Judgment Creditor seeks to have these
Funds assigned to himself, to the extent necessary to pay the debt.
Additionally, Judgment Creditor seeks an order restraining Judgment Debtor Meints
from otherwise disposing of or encumbering his right to these Funds.
 
     
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED.
 
Governing Statute
 
Code of Civil Procedure
§ 708.510 provides in relevant part:
 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided
by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court
may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a
receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all
or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is
conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the following
types of payments:
(1)
Wages due from the federal government that are not subject to withholding  under an earnings withholding order.
(2)
Rents.
(3)
Commissions.
(4)
Royalties.
(5)
Payments due from a patent or copyright.
(6)
Insurance policy loan value.
(b) The notice of the motion shall
be served on the judgment debtor. Service shall be made personally or by mail.
(c) Subject to subdivisions (d),
(e), and (f), in determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an
assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration
all relevant factors, including the following:
(1) The reasonable requirements of
a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole or
in part by the judgment debtor.
(2)
Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in
satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings
assignment orders for support.
(3)
The amount remaining due on the money judgment.
(4)
The amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that
may be assigned.
(d) A right to payment may be
assigned pursuant to this article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the
money judgment.”
 
Discussion
 
            The entire
amount remains due on the money judgment, and taking into account an interest
rate of 10% per annum, commencing on February 9, 2018 and costs incurred, the
judgment amount is now $360,484.89. (Declaration of Paul Cullen ¶¶ 3-10,
Ex. A-C.). For this reason, Judgment Creditor requests an assignment order for
payments due to Judgment Debtor Meints from third parties such as Kleer Health
Technologies, LLC.  It was discovered
that Judgment Debtor Meints organized this corporation on March 24, 2020. (Id.
at ¶¶ 15-16, Ex. E.) Service of this motion was provided to all affected
parties pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 708.510(b). Because the entire
balance of the judgment remains outstanding, the Court finds that it is
appropriate to assign Judgment Debtor’s Meints’ right to payment from
third-parties including but not limited to Kleer Health Technologies LLC.
Additionally, to ensure that the judgment is satisfied to its full amount,
Judgment Debtor Meints is retrained from assigning or disposing of his right to
payment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 708.520.)
 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, because the requested
relief is appropriate under Code of Civil Procedure §§ 708.510 and 708.520, the
motion is GRANTED.