 Case Number:  24STCP00884    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  25 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 25



 
AMANDA
  WHIPP,
                        Plaintiff,
            v. 
 
FOUNDATION
  TECH, INC., a
  California Corporation, AND DOES
  1 THROUGH 20
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24STCP00884
 
  Hearing Date: August 15, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
PETITIONER’S motion TO EXPUNGE MECHANICS LIEN



Procedural
Background
            On March
20, 2024, Petitioner Amanda Whipp (“Petitioner”), filed the instant Petition
against Respondent Foundation Tech, Inc., (“Respondent”) for (1) Expungement of
a Mechanic’s Lien. Petitioner is the legal owner of real property (the “Subject
Property”) located at 320W 5th St., San Dimas, CA 91773. 
            Petitioner
alleges that on May 24, 2019, Petitioner’s mother, Charlie Kalk, was living at
the Subject Property and entered into a written agreement (“Agreement”) with
Respondent Foundation Tech for Respondent to provide all the material and labor
required to perform the general home improvement repairs and work at the
Subject Property, as described in the Work Order specifications identified in
the Agreement. (Pet., Whip Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A.) In exchange, Respondent would
receive $9,300.00 as the contract price. (Pet., ¶ 7.) Instead, Respondent
provided a defective semblance of work which Petitioner claims has resulted in
property damage due to Respondent’s negligence. (Id.) 
            Upon
competition of Respondent’s defective work, Petitioner filed a complaint with
the California State License Board (“CSLB”) against Respondent that specified
the contract date, the amount on the contract, the amount paid on the contract,
the date the work started, and the date the work ceased. (Pet., ¶ 8.)
Petitioner subsequently discovered that Respondent was operating with a
suspended licensed and should not have been contracting at the time the
Agreement was entered into and performed under. 
(Id.)
            Petitioner
further claims Respondent failed to acquire the necessary permits from the City
of San Dimas for work done on the Subject Property, for which CSLB cited
Respondent and ordered them to pay several fines, along with damages. (Pet., ¶
9, Whip Decl., Ex. B “Citation.”) Despite such issues, however, Petitioner paid
Respondent $3,790 for the defective work performed but Petitioner has since
incurred several thousands of dollars in expenses as a result of Respondent’s
negligence. (Pet., ¶ 10.)
            Petitioner
further alleges that on October 16, 2019, Respondent recorded a Mechanic’s Lien
(the “Lien”), while unlicensed, against the Subject Property, rendering it
invalid. (Pet., ¶ 11, Whip Decl., Ex. C. “Lien.”) Petitioner further claims she
was never notified by Respondent that the Lien had been recorded and Respondent
did not serve her with a copy or notice of the Lien. (Id.)
            Thus,
Petitioner filed a complaint with the Contractor’s State License Board against
Respondent that specified the relevant details. (Pet., ¶ 12, Ex. D,
“”Complaint.”)
            On
January 5, 2023, Petitioner sent Respondent a demand letter by US Mail,
pursuant to California Civil Code § 8482, demanding Respondent remove the Lien.
(Pet., ¶ 13, Whip Decl., Ex. E, “Demand Letter.”) Respondent never responded. (Id.)
            Given
more than ninety (90) days have passed since Respondent recorded the Lien, the
Lien has since expired by operation of law due to Respondent’s failure to
timely perfect the lien in accordance with California Civil Code § 8460. (Pet.,
¶ 14.) Thus, Petitioner now requests the Lien be expunged.  
            On
July 24, 2024, Petitioner Whip filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the Petition
for Expungement of Mechanic’s Lien. That same day, the Hearing on the Petition
was continued from July 24, 2024, to August 15, 2024 due to the Court’s
emergency closure and connectivity issues. 
 
Legal
Standard
            “Claimants enforce their mechanic's
liens through foreclosure, and must commence a foreclosure suit within 90 days
after recording the lien. (§ 8460, subd. (a).) If a claimant does not timely
commence foreclosure proceedings, an owner may file a petition to release the
property from the lien. (§ 8480, subd. (a).) Likewise, if foreclosure
proceedings are timely commenced, an owner who challenges the validity of the
lien may file a motion to remove a mechanic's lien in the pending foreclosure
action itself.”   (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v.
Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co., Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 413, 423.)
            
Discussion

            Petitioner
seeks to expunge the mechanics’ lien recorded against Petitioner’s property on
the grounds that (1) the Lien was rendered invalid due to Respondent being
unlicensed while performing the work; and (2) the Lien was not property served;
and (3) the Lien is now expired.
 
The Mechanics’ Lien was Invalid
            “To
prevail in a foreclosure action, the plaintiff bears the burden of proving,
among other things, the validity of the lien. [Citation.] For the lien to be valid, the claim of lien must have been timely
recorded in compliance with the applicable statute.”  (Howard S. Wright Construction Co. v. BBIC
Investors, LLC (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 228, 237–238.)  “[T]he timeliness of the recording of a claim
of lien is governed by [the Former Civil Code Section 3115 now Civil Code
section 8412], which provides both an earliest date and a latest date for
timely recording.”  (Id. at
p.238.)
            Per
California Business and Professions Code § 7031, Except as provided in
subdivision (e), no person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of
a contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or recover in law or equity in
any action, in any court of this state for the collection of compensation for
the performance of any act or contract where a license is required by this
chapter without alleging that they were a duly licensed contractor at all times
during the performance of that act or contract regardless of the merits of the
cause of action brought by that person, except that this prohibition shall not
apply to contractors who are each individually licensed under this chapter but
who fail to comply with Section 7029.
            The
Court finds that Petitioner has demonstrated, per the Citation (Ex. B), that in
violation of section 7117.5(b), Respondent acted as a contractor while their
license was suspended. (Whip Decl., Ex. B, pg. 3, Item No. 4.) Such violation
resulted in a civil penalty of $1000. (Id.) The Court further notes
Respondent was cited for a total of five items, including failure to obtain
permits, defective work, failure to adhere to the contract, and failure to
comply with the provisions of the law regarding home improvement contracts. (See
Ex. B.) As such, the Court finds Petitioner has demonstrated the Lien was
invalid and Respondent has failed to rebut this finding. 
 
The Lien was not Property Served
As set forth in
the current Civil Code section 8416 subdivision (c), “[a]n owner must be
notified by registered mail, certified mail, or first-class mail, evidenced by
a certificate of mailing, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or reputed
owner at the owner’s or reputed owner’s residence or place of business address
or at the address shown by the building permit on file with the authority
issuing a building permit for the work.  . . . If a mechanics lien is not property
served as detailed in Civil Code Section 8416, then the mechanics lien is
unenforceable. (Civ Code § 8416, subd. (e). 
            Here,
Petitioner Whip claims she never received notification via certified mail.
(Pet., ¶ 26.) Although Respondent alleges through the Lien itself that it was
served via First Class Certified Service, Petitioner claims she never received
a copy or property notified of the Lien. (Id.) The Court notes that
Petitioner does not provide how she came to know of the Lien, and the Lien does
evidence proper service. However, Respondent fails to rebut Petitioner’s claim
by not opposing the instant petition. Moreover, as discussed below, the Lien is
invalid on other bases.  Thus, the Court
need not make a further determination as to proper service at this time. 
 
The Lien has now Expired
            As
set forth in the current Civil Code section 8412, “[a] direct contractor may
not enforce a lien unless the contractor records a claim of lien after the
contractor completes the direct contract, and before the earlier of the
following times: [¶] (a) Ninety days after completion of the work of
improvement. [¶] (b) Sixty days after the owner records a notice of completion
or cessation.”  (Civ. Code, § 8412,
[italics added].)  “[A] contract is
complete for purposes of commencing the recordation period under [the now Civil
Code section 8412] when all work under the contract has been performed,
excused, or otherwise discharged.”  (Howard
S. Wright Construction Co., supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at p.241.) 
Under Civil Code
section 8460, a claimant must “. . . commence an action to enforce a lien
within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien. If the claimant does not
commence an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien
expires and is unenforceable.” 
            Here,
Petitioner provides that Respondent has failed to perfect the Lien prior to its
expiration and the Court agrees based on the evidence provided. Given that more
than ninety (90) days have passed since Respondent recorded the Lien, the Lien
has now expired by operation of law due to Respondent’s failure to timely
perfect the Lien in accordance with California Civil Code § 8460.
            As
the failure to timely record the mechanics’ lien is dispositive, the Court finds
Petitioner has properly established grounds to expunge the Lien.
Attorneys’ Fees
            Civil Code Section 8488(c) states that the prevailing party in a
hearing regarding expungement of mechanic’s lien is entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees.
            Here,
Petitioner claims attorney’s fees in the amount of $2,600 for the costs
incurred in obtaining the instant expungement. However, Petitioner provides no
details regarding her attorney’s hourly rate or hours billed for the instant
motion. Given Petitioner provides no statement of itemization, the Court cannot
award attorneys’ fees in accordance with subdivision (c).
            Accordingly,
the request for attorneys’ fees is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Based on the
foregoing, Petitioner Amanda Whipp’s motion to expunge the mechanics’ lien is
GRANTED.
The mechanics’
lien recorded by Respondent against 320
W 5th St., San Dimas, CA 91773 on October 16, 2019, is released and
expunged.
Petitioner is ordered to electronically submit to the Court a proposed
form of Order, consistent with this Court’s Ruling, within 15-days.
 
Moving Party to
give notice and file proof of service of such.
 