


[1]           Local Rule 3.231(i)(2) provides: “The
parties should cite to specific pages of the record (e.g., AR 56-57) and avoid
block cites (e.g., AR 56-275).” In respondent’s Statement of Facts, respondent
provided block citations instead of citing to specific pages. As one of many
examples, on page 3, line 1 of the amended opening brief, respondent cited to
AR 169-208, the entire transcript of Jane Roe’s investigatory interview. The
interview concerned Roe’s allegations against petitioner regarding incidents
that took place on September 5 and 17 of 2021. However, page 3, line 1 only
concerned the September 5 incident and only two pages of Roe’s interview
supported the sentence preceding the citation on page 3, line 1. Respondent is
admonished to cite to specific pages in the future. 


[2]           Alleged policy violations included:
Title IX Sexual Harassment; Sexual Assault; Dating Violence; Sexual and/or
Gender-Based Harassment; Student Conduct Code 11.33.A (unauthorized entry into,
presence in or use of University premises or property); and Student Conduct
Code 11.36.A (causing physical harm to any person(s)). (AR 145.)  


[3]           The Hearing Officer also found that petitioner was not responsible for an
allegation of Sexual Assault-Sexual Intercourse. (AR 762.) Specifically, the Hearing
Officer determined that while the parties agreed that they engaged in
penile-vaginal intercourse during the First Incident, there was sufficient
evidence to conclude that petitioner obtained Roe’s affirmative consent prior
to engaging in penile-vaginal sexual intercourse and/or a person in petitioner’s
position could have reasonably believed that Roe consented to the sexual
activity. (AR 762.)
  


[4]           The Hearing Officer also found that petitioner
was not responsible for a related allegation of Dating Violence in part due to
the lack of evidence by a preponderance that petitioner’s actions were violent
as opposed to the result of poor nail hygiene, carelessness, or sexual
inexperience. (AR 764.)  


[5]           On November 14, 2013, the Court
ordered as follows: “If the administrative record exceeds 450 pages, counsel
are to prepare a joint appendix consistent with the court’s guidelines. The
administrative record may be in electronic form; however, the joint appendix is
to be a hard copy.” In the Notice of Lodging of Administrative Record,
petitioner acknowledges that the administrative record is 1,152 pages. Despite
the administrative record exceeding 450 pages, no joint appendix was submitted.
Although the Court has reviewed the administrative record to prepare this
ruling, the parties are admonished to comply with the Court’s express
directions concerning the joint appendix in the future.

