 Case Number:  23STCV04681    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.
            Plaintiffs allege that a Tesla
salesperson misrepresented that the 2023 Tesla Model Y would be equipped with
parking sensors, but it was in fact, not.
            Defendant Tesla, Inc. moves to
compel arbitration and to stay this action.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and
stay this action is GRANTED. Per Defendant’s stipulation, Defendant is to pay
the filing fee attributable to the initiation of arbitration.
            The Court sets a status conference re: initiation of
arbitration for June 7, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Request For Judicial Notice
            Defendant’s
request that the Court take judicial notice of the First Amended Complaint
filed in this action is GRANTED per Evid. Code, § 452(d)(court records).
Discussion          
            Defendant Tesla, Inc. moves to
compel arbitration and to stay this action.
Existence
of Agreement To Arbitrate
            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 728, 741 overruled on other grounds by Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094.) A
party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the
existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition
has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary
to its defense. (Banner Entertainment,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s motion does not accurately reference the Order
Agreement. However, the Court quotes below the exact language found in the Agreement
attached to Plaintiffs’ Complaint, which they admit to having signed and which
governs this dispute.
Plaintiffs
attach the subject Order Agreement for the purchase of the 2023 Tesla Model Y
as Exhibit A, thereby admitting that they agreed to its terms. The Arbitration
Agreement is contained at Page 3 therein:
Agreement to
Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision, which applies to any dispute
between you and Tesla, Inc. and its a¿liates, (together “Tesla”).
 
If you have a
concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your desired
resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.
 
If not
resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not
be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under
its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this
Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our products. You further
agree that any disputes related to the arbitrability of your claims will be
decided by the court rather than an arbitrator, notwithstanding AAA rules to
the contrary.
 
To initiate
the arbitration, you will pay the filing fee directly to AAA and we will pay
all subsequent AAA fees for the arbitration, except you are responsible for
your own attorney, expert, and other witness fees and costs unless otherwise provided
by law. If you prevail on any claim, we will reimburse you your filing fee. The
arbitration will be held in the city or county of your residence. To learn more
about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any AAA o¿ce or
go to www.adr.org.
 
The
arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not
consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot
hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing
or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims
against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a
court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot
be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim
or remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any
other claims must be arbitrated.
 
If you
prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court.
 
You may opt
out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a
letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your
name, Order Number or Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to opt out of
the arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate
overrides any different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration
agreement in a lease or ¿nance contract.
 
     (Bold emphasis and underlining added.)
            The
claims for negligent misrepresentation and violation of CLRA, Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17200 and 17500 relate to the representations made by a Tesla sales representative,
and thus come within the scope of arbitrable claims, i.e., an aspect of the
relationship between Plaintiffs and Tesla. Indeed, the arbitration clause
specifically provides that it “includes claims arising before this Agreement,
such as claims related to statements about our products.”
            The
Court first addresses Plaintiffs’ argument that they opted-out of the
arbitration agreement. Attached to Exhibit A of the Opposition a copy of Certified
mail dated January 19, 2023, of a letter dated January 19, 2023, which is a
pre-litigation letter sent on LEMONLAWGURU.COM letterhead. There is a request
to opt out set forth on Page 2. However, as argued by Defendant in the opposition,
the Order Agreement was electronically accepted on December 6, 2022, giving
Plaintiffs until January 5, 2023 to opt out. The January 19, 2023 attempt to opt
out was untimely. Further, there is no indication that the letter was mailed to
the address specified in the Arbitration Agreement. As such, Plaintiffs’
attempt to opt out of the arbitration clause is ineffective.
            The
Court next addresses Plaintiffs’ argument that, because they are alleging that
the contract was obtained by fraud in the inducement, their claims are not subject
to arbitration because the contract, including the arbitration clause, is voidable.
Fraud in the inducement is a subset of
the tort of fraud. It “occurs when ‘ “the promisor knows what he is signing but
his consent is induced by fraud,  [*295]  mutual assent is present
and a contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable.” ’ ” (Citations
omitted .)

(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294-95.)
            Because
Plaintiffs only assert fraud in the inducement as to the entire contract, this does
not render the arbitration clause unenforceable:
As we explained, the central rationale of Prima Paint was
that an arbitration clause is separable from other portions of a
contract, such that fraud in the inducement relating to
other contractual terms does not render an arbitration clause
unenforceable, even when such fraud might justify rescission of the contract as
a whole. (Citation omitted.) “By entering into the arbitration agreement,
the parties established their intent that disputes coming within the
agreement’s scope be determined by an arbitrator rather than a court;
this contractual intent must be respected even with regard to claims of fraud in
the inducement of the contract generally.” (Citation omitted.) In
light of Prima Paint and its progeny, we disapprove Bertero
v. Superior Court, supra, 216 Cal. App. 2d 213, to the extent
it holds that a party’s assertion of the invalidity of an entire contract
categorically waives that party’s right to arbitrate pursuant to a provision in
that contract.
   (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare
of California (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1187, 1199.)
            Finally,
Plaintiffs argue that, pursuant to the McGill rule, this matter cannot
be subject to arbitration because Plaintiffs seek injunctions for the benefit
of the general public.
In McGill,
supra, 2 Cal.5th 945, a credit card account holder filed a class action
against the issuing bank alleging claims under the CLRA, UCL, and the false
advertising law (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17500 et seq.) for deceptive
practices in offering a “‘credit protector’” insurance plan. The complaint
sought money damages, restitution, and an injunction prohibiting the bank “from
continuing to engage in its allegedly illegal and deceptive practices.” (McGill, at p. 953.) The Supreme Court
noted such “public injunctive relief, i.e., injunctive relief that has the
primary purpose and effect of prohibiting unlawful acts that threaten future
injury to the general public,” is among “the statutory remedies available for
a violation of” the CLRA, the UCL, and the false advertising law. (McGill, at p. 951.)
 
The bank in McGill petitioned to compel the account holder to arbitrate her
claims on an individual basis based on an arbitration clause in the customer
account agreement. The arbitration clause required arbitration of “‘All Claims
… ,’” and stated, “‘Claims and remedies sought as part of a class action,
private attorney general or other representative action are subject to
arbitration on an individual (non-class, non-representative) basis, and the arbitrator
may award relief only on an individual (non-class, non-representative) basis.’ … ‘The arbitrator will not award relief for or
against anyone who is not a party. If you or we require
arbitration of a Claim, neither you, we, nor any other person may pursue the
Claim in arbitration as a class action, private attorney general action or
other representative action, nor
may such Claim be pursued on your or our behalf in any litigation in any court.’” (McGill,
supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 952, italics added.)
 
The Supreme Court identified the issue in McGill as “whether the
arbitration provision is valid and enforceable insofar as it purports to waive
McGill's right to seek public injunctive relief in any forum.” (McGill, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 956.) The high court concluded the arbitration
clause had such a sweeping preclusive effect across all fora because the clause
barred McGill from pursuing “‘Claims and remedies’” on a class or
representative basis in both arbitration and “‘in any litigation in any court.’” (Id. at p. 952.) Having
identified the issue, the court ruled the arbitration provision was “invalid
and unenforceable under California law” precisely because “it purports to waive
McGill's statutory right to seek [public injunctive] relief.” (Id. at p. 961.)
 
       (Mejia
v. DACM Inc. (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 691, 598.)
            Here,
the subject arbitration clause would require that claims for a public injunction
be litigated in courts, and thus does not purport to waive Plaintiffs’ right to
seek public injunctive relief in any forum:
 
The
arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not
consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot
hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing
or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims
against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a
court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot
be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim
or remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any
other claims must be arbitrated.
     (Arbitration Agreement, Page 3 [bold emphasis
and underlining added.)
            As
such, the McGill rule does not invalidate the subject arbitration
agreement.
 
            Moreover,
the Prayer for Relief in the 1AC does not even seek injunctive relief which may
be considered a public injunction. (See 1AC, Page 12.) As such, there is
nothing for this Court to even sever from the arbitration.
 
            Because
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that the arbitration agreement is
unconscionable, Plaintiffs have not shown that it should not be enforced. 
 
            As
such, the motion to compel arbitration and stay this action is GRANTED. Per
Defendant’s stipulation, Defendant is to pay the filing fee attributable to the
initiation of arbitration. 
 
            The
Court sets a status conference re: initiation of arbitration for June 7, 2024
at 8:30 a.m.