  Case Number:  21STCV39217    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to follow do not resuscitate orders (DNR Orders), and placed
decedent Robert Henley on life support, such that Defendants prolonged decedent
life which caused him an unwanted belabored death.
Defendants Mission Hospital
Regional Medical Center, St. Joseph Health System, Donna Thorlakson, R.N., and
Veronica Eldrake, R.N. move to change venue. 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Mission Hospital
Regional Medical Center, St. Joseph Health System, Donna Thorlakson, R.N., and
Veronica Eldrake, R.N.’s motion to
change venue is GRANTED.
The case is ordered transferred to the Orange
County Superior Court. Plaintiff is ordered to pay the change of venue fees
pursuant to Item 61 of the Los Angeles County Superior Court fee schedule
within 7 days.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Change Venue
            As
an initial matter, the Court does not find that Defendants have waived the
right to change venue by filing a CCP § 170.6 challenge, nor in participating
in discovery, because discovery may proceed despite a pending motion to
transfer venue:
(4) [3:582] Effect on discovery: Although
the court's jurisdiction is suspended while a motion to transfer is pending,
this should not affect a party's right to conduct discovery—so long as
the discovery proceedings are self-executing (all are, except motions for
medical examinations; see Ch. 8).
(Weil & Brown, et
al., California Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial [8:582][The
Rutter Group June 2023 Update][italics in original].)
Defendants Mission Hospital
Regional Medical Center, St. Joseph Health System, Donna Thorlakson, R.N., and
Veronica Eldrake, R.N. move to change venue to Orange County on the ground that
the action was filed in the improper county.
 
This motion is brought pursuant to Civ.
Proc. Code,. §§ 395, 396 and 397, on the grounds that when an action is in
tort, the proper court is that county wherein the defendants reside and where
the injury causing death occurred.  Here:

 
1. The Plaintiff resides in Orange
County—Dove Canyon[1], California—and
has for over 5 years. (De Coster Decl., Exh. A, Response to Form Interrogatory
No. 2.5.)
 
2. The incident occurred in Orange
County at Providence Mission Hospital in Mission Viejo, California. (Complaint,
¶ GN-1, Page 4.) 
 
In an action for injury to person
or for wrongful death, venue is proper in any county where at least one of the
defendants reside at the commencement of the action. (Civ. Proc. Code § 395(a),)
Under Monogram,
where a plaintiff takes advantage of the liberal statutory joinder rules and
joins various causes of action against various defendants, so long as the
plaintiff chooses a venue that is proper as to one defendant, the
entire case may be tried there, regardless of whether venue would be improper
with respect to other defendants if the causes of action against them were
analyzed separately.
(K.R.L. P'ship v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 490, 504 [bold
emphasis and underlining added].)
“[A] corporation's principal place of business is its
residence.” (Hale v. Bohannon (1952) 38 Cal. 2d 458, 472.) “A corporate defendant challenging venue may
obtain an order changing venue only to the county of its principal place
of  [*9]  business (citation omitted), and in seeking such
an order has the burden of negating the propriety of venue as laid on all
possible grounds. ( Citation omitted.)”
(Karson Indus., Inc. v. Superior Court of Contra Costa Cty. (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 7, 8-9.)
 
The Court notes that moving Defendants Donna
Thorlakson, R.N., and Veronica Eldrake, R.N. were sued as Doe Defendants.
 
The court is required to consider the residence of a party
sued as a “Doe” and whose true name is substituted (and residence ascertained)
before the hearing on the motion to change venue. [Gutierrez v. Sup.Ct. (Ojai Valley Inn) (1966) 243 CA2d 710, 724, 52 CR 592, 602]

(Weil & Brown, et
al., California Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial [8:3488.1][The Rutter Group June 2023 Update].) 
            If any Defendant resides in Los
Angeles County, then venue is proper here.
            The Court will consider the
residence of each of the moving parties:
¿        Mission
Hospital Regional Medical Center, has had its principal place of business at
27700 Medical Center Road, Mission Viejo, Orange County, California 92691 , since
1971.(Declaration of Gerri Mazza, RN, ¶ 2.) Thus, it resides in Orange County.
¿        St.
Joseph Health System, at the time this matter was commenced, has had its principal place
of business at 3345 Michelson Dr., Suite 100, Irvine, Orange County, California
92612. (Declaration of Gerri Mazza, RN, ¶ 4.) Thus, it resides in Orange
County.
¿        Donna
Thorlakson, R.N, at the time this matter was commenced, resided in San
Clemente, California in Orange County. (Declaration of Donna Thorlakson, ¶ 2.)
¿        Veronica
Eldrake, R.N., at the time this matter was commenced, resided in Irvine,
California in Orange County. (Declaration of Veronica Eldrake, ¶ 2.)
            Raul Marquez, M.D and Habib
Azad, M.D. are the wo other named Defendants,
who filed a notice of joinder in the first motion but  did not do so in connection
with this second motion.
¿        Raul
Marquez, M.D. has resided in Dana Point, California in Orange County for the
last 10 years. (Declaration of Raul Marquez, M.D., ¶ 3.)
¿        Habib
Azad, M.D. has resided in Newport Beach, California in Orange County since June
2019. (Declaration of Habib Azad, M.D., ¶ 3.)
Thus, under Civ. Proc. Code, §
395(a), Orange County is the proper venue for this action, which is for
wrongful death, i.e., in any county where at least one of the defendants reside
at the commencement of the action. (Civ.
Proc. Code § 395(a),) 
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant’s counsel directed Plaintiffs
to utilize the St. Joseph’s address in Pasadena is irrelevant to the residency
analysis. As noted, as a matter of law, a corporation’s residence is where its
principal place of business is located.
            As such, the Court need not address
the alternative groups of convenience of witnesses, especially in that the
convenience of parties and their employees is normally not considered, and
Defendants did not submit evidence as to the convenience of non-party
affiliated witnesses.
In a motion brought under section 397,
subdivision 3, "the burden [of proof] rests on the party moving for
transfer to establish grounds for change of venue, on the theory the plaintiff
lays the venue and it is presumptively correct. [Citations.]" (Citation
omitted.) "[It] is not only necessary that convenience of witnesses be
served, but it is equally essential that the ends of justice be promoted.
[Citation.]" (Citation omitted.)
 
While a motion made under this section
is addressed to the discretion of the trial court, that discretion is not
unfettered. For instance, except under limited circumstances, the court may not
consider the convenience of the parties or of their employees in passing upon
the motion. (Citations omitted.)
(Lieberman
v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal. pp.3d 396, 401-02.)
      The
motion to transfer venue is GRANTED.
The case is ordered transferred to the Orange County
Superior Court. Plaintiff is ordered to pay the change of venue fees pursuant
to Item 61 of the Los Angeles County Superior Court fee schedule within 7 days. 

