  Case Number:  24VECV04017    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Tammy
  Annette Gillispie,
 
Plaintiffs,
 
       
   v.
 
Lyft,
  Inc., et al. 
 
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
24VECV04017                107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Compel Arbitration 
 




 


 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: GRANTED. 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On
September 16, 2022, Plaintiff Tammy Annette Gillispie (“Plaintiff”) was riding
in Defendant John Doe’s vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 1.) John Doe was operating the
vehicle for Defendant Lyft, Inc. (Complaint ¶ 1.) John Doe’s vehicle collided
with a vehicle driven by Defendant Gabriela Angeles. (Complaint ¶¶ 1-2.) 
 
On
August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Lyft, Inc.,
Gabriela Angeles, John Doe, and Does 1 to 20, alleging a negligence cause of
action. 
 
On
October 25, 2024, Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a motion to compel
arbitration (the “Motion”). On December 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of
non-opposition to the Motion.
 
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Federal
and California law treat valid arbitration agreements like any other contract
and favor their enforcement.” (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc.
(2024) 16 Cal.5th 478, 492.) “A written agreement to submit a controversy to
arbitration is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, ‘save upon such grounds as
exist for the revocation of any contract.’” (Id.) “[T]he right to
arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a
suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Marcus &
Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  
 
The
court is empowered by California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to
compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so. (Code
Civ. Proc., §¿1281.2.) 
“Because
the existence of the [arbitration] agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence. If the party opposing the petition raises a
defense to enforcement . . . that party bears the burden of producing evidence
of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the
defense.” (Villareal v. LAD-T, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 446, 456.)
 
“California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld ‘unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.’” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) Notwithstanding that strong policy, the United States Supreme Court
has held, “[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be required
to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to submit.”¿(AT
& T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers of America¿(1986) 475
U.S. 643, 648.) 
 
The
hearing and determination of a petition to compel arbitration “in the manner
and upon the notice provided by law for the making and hearing of motions”
generally means that “the facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration
and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the court's
discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109,
1157.) 
 
III.          
DISCUSSION
 
The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Villareal v. LAD-T, LLC, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th at p. 456.)
 
Defendant
submits its Terms of Service dated August 26, 2019, December 9, 2020, and
December 12, 2022. (McCachern Declaration ¶ 12.) Defendant’s Safety Program
Lead, Paul McCachern, states that the December 9, 2020, Terms of Service were
in effect when the incident occurred. (McCachern Declaration ¶¶ 1, 14.)
 
The
December 9, 2020, Terms of Service contain an arbitration provision that states,
in relevant part,
 
YOU
AND LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF
DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE
BY ARBITRATION, as set forth below. This agreement to arbitrate
("Arbitration Agreement") is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act
("FAA''); but if the FAA is inapplicable for any reason, then this
Arbitration Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Delaware,
including Del. Code tit. 10, § 5701 et seq., without regard to choice of law
principles. This Arbitration Agreement survives after the Agreement terminates
or your relationship with Lyft ends . . . 
 
Except
as expressly provided below, ALL DISPUTES AND CLAIMS BETWEEN US (EACH A
"CLAIM" AND COLLECTIVELY, "CLAIMS") SHALL BE EXCLUSIVELY
RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION SOLELY BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT . . 
 
BY
AGREEING TO ARBITRATION, YOU UNDERSTAND THAT YOU AND LYFT ARE WAIVING THE RIGHT
TO SUE IN COURT OR HAVE A JURY TRIAL FOR ALL CLAIMS, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY
OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS ARBITRATION AGREEMENT. This Arbitration Agreement is
intended to require arbitration of every claim or dispute that can lawfully be
arbitrated, except for those claims and disputes which by the terms of this
Arbitration Agreement are expressly excluded from the requirement to arbitrate
. . .
 
This
Arbitration Agreement shall not require arbitration of the following types of
claims: (1) small claims actions brought on an individual basis that are within
the scope of such small claims court's jurisdiction; (2) a representative
action brought on behalf of others under PAGA or other private attorneys
general acts, to the extent the representative PAGA Waiver in Section 17(c) of
such action is deemed unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction under
applicable law not preempted by the FAA; (3) claims for workers' compensation,
state disability insurance and unemployment insurance benefits; (4) claims that
may not be subject to arbitration as a matter of generally applicable law not
preempted by the FAA; and (5) individual claims of sexual assault or sexual
harassment in connection with the use of the Lyft Platform or Rideshare
Services. Where these claims are brought in a court of competent jurisdiction,
Lyft will not require arbitration of those claims. Lyft's agreement not to
require arbitration of these claims does not waive the enforceability of any
other provision of this Arbitration Agreement (including without limitation the
waivers provided in Section 17(b)), or of the enforceability of this
Arbitration Agreement as to any other dispute, claim, or controversy.
 
(Ex. 3 pdf pp. 65-66, 70.)
 
McCachern’s
declaration states “Plaintiff accepted the December 9, 2020, Terms of Service
on January 5, 2021.” (McChachern Declaration ¶ 14.) McCachern’s declaration
further states that “[a]t the time Plaintiff accepted the operative December 9,
2020, Terms of Service, Plaintiff (like all users) was presented directly on
the screen of the Lyft App with the full text of those Terms of Service,
including the arbitration provision” and “Plaintiff was required to click to
demonstrate consent and agreement to be bound by the Terms of Service and to
proceed with use of the Lyft App.” (McCachern Declaration ¶ 15.) Finally,
McCachern states that “Plaintiff could not have proceeded to access content on
the Lyft App without first accepting Lyft’s Terms of Service by clicking the ‘I
Agree’ button beneath the full text of Lyft’s Terms of Service.” (McCachern
Declaration ¶ 16.) 
 
Defendant
has met its burden of proving a valid arbitration agreement exists. Thus, the
burden shifts to Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff
filed a notice of non-opposition to the Motion. (Notice of Non-Opposition.) Plaintiff,
therefore, produced no evidence indicating this court should not enforce the
arbitration agreement.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants Defendant’s Motion. Defendant requests the court stay
litigation of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant pending arbitration.
(Memorandum p. 23.) Defendant clarifies it is “not requesting a stay of
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Angeles.” (Memorandum p. 23.)  Therefore, as to Defendant, this action is
stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
 
December 18, 2024
 
__________________________________
                                                            Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107,
Van Nuys
                                                                                    Los Angeles County Superior Court
 