 Case Number:  24VECV04127    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Carlos Mario Arroyave,
 
Plaintiffs,
 
       
   v.
Ford Motor Company, et al.
¿ 
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
24VECV04127             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
Demurrer without Motion to Strike 




 


 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Sustain with leave to amend.

I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On
January 11, 2021, Plaintiff Carlos Mario Arroyave (“Plaintiff”) leased a 2021
Ford F-150 (the “Vehicle”). (Complaint ¶ 9.) The Vehicle was defective.
(Complaint p. 3.) On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants Ford Motor Company, Vista Ford Inc. dba Vista Ford Lincoln, and Does
1 through 10, alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act
– breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty; (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act – section 1793.2; (4) fraudulent
inducement – concealment; and (5) negligent repair.
 
On
November 6, 2024, Defendants Ford Motor Company and Vista Ford, Inc.
(“Defendants”) demurred to the complaint. On December 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On December 11, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
II.            
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS 
 
A.   
Timeliness 
 
“A person against
whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after
service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., §¿430.40(a).) 
 
Per California
Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be
filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions
thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and
replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the
set hearing.
 
On October 7, 2024, Defendants filed a
declaration in support of an automatic extension that extended Defendants’ time
to file the demurrer until November 6, 2024. (10/07/24 Declaration p. 2.)
Accordingly, Defendants timely filed the demurrer under section 430.40.
 
Further, the demurrer, opposition, and
reply were timely filed under section 1005.
 
B.   
Meet
and Confer 
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer”
in good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve
the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file
and serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and
conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the
demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).) 
 
Defendants’
counsel submits a declaration stating “the parties met and conferred via telephone
regarding the grounds for Defendants’ demurrer” but the parties were unable to
resolve the issues. (Liu Declaration ¶¶ 1-2.)
  
This
court finds that Defendants satisfied the meet and confer requirement. 
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
As a general matter, in
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a
“complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.) 
 
A party may demur to a
complaint because the complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §
430.10(e).) 
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 

Fourth Cause of Action for
     Fraudulent Concealment

 
i.                
Cause
of Action
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment cause of action is barred because
Plaintiff failed to plead essential elements to state a claim. (Demurrer p. 10)
 
The
elements of a fraudulent concealment cause of action are: “(1)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce
reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.” (Hoffman v.
162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185-1186.) “Active
concealment or suppression of facts by a nonfiduciary ‘is the equivalent of a
false representation, i.e., actual fraud. [Citation] A fraud claim based upon
the suppression or concealment of a material fact must involve a defendant who
had a legal duty to disclose the fact.” (Id. at p. 1186.) 
 
Fraud
must be plead with specificity. (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024)
17 Cal.5th 1, 43.) “California courts apply the same specificity standard to
evaluate the factual underpinnings of a fraudulent concealment claim at the
pleading stage, even though the focus of inquiry shifts to the unique elements
of the claim.” (Id.) The complaint must “include specific allegations
establishing all the required elements, including (1) the content of the
omitted facts, (2) defendant’s awareness of the materiality of those facts, (3)
the inaccessibility of the facts to plaintiff, (4) the general point at which
the omitted facts should or could have been revealed, and (5) justifiable and
actual reliance, either through action or forbearance, based on the defendant’s
omission. ‘Mere conclusory allegations that the omissions were intentional and
for the purpose of defrauding and deceiving plaintiff . . . are insufficient
for the foregoing purposes.’” (Id. at pp. 43-44.) 
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff “fails to plead the defect [Defendant] allegedly concealed.”
(Demurrer p. 11.) The complaint identifies the defect as a transmission defect
that “cause[d] consumers to experiences the following unexpected manifestations
of the defect: abrupt harsh shifting, erratic shifting, jerking (commonly known
as ‘juddering’ or ‘shuddering’), lunging while slowing down, hesitation between
gears, lack of acceleration, loss of power, stalling, slipping gears, failure
to change gears, clunking or banging noises, and other drivability concerns
that impede the driver’s safety, each and all of which prevent a 10R80 equipped
vehicle from operating as intended by the driver.” (Complaint ¶ 14.)
Accordingly, the complaint alleges with particularity the defect Defendant Ford
Motor Company allegedly concealed.
 
Defendants
further argue “Plaintiff fails entirely to identify by name who made the
alleged omissions when he purchased the Subject Vehicle.” (Demurrer pp. 11-12.)
“The requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation
requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However,
“the requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate that
‘the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts
of the controversy.’” (Id. at p. 158.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges “Ford drafted, produced and distributed marketing materials
to the public containing factual representations about the Subject Vehicle[,]”
and “[p]rior to purchasing or leasing the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff reviewed
marketing brochures, viewed television commercials and/or heard radio
commercials about the qualities of the 2021 Ford F-150.” (Complaint ¶ 56.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “Plaintiff further relied on the statements made
during the sales process by FORD’s agents and within the marketing materials
written by FORD. However, FORD and its authorized agents did not disclose to
Plaintiff any information about the 10R80 Transmission Defect. These omissions
were material to Plaintiff’s decision to purchase or lease the Subject Vehicle.
Had FORD and/or its authorized agents disclosed the 10R80 defect before
Plaintiff purchased or lease the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff would have been aware
of such defects, and would not have purchased or leased the Subject Vehicle.”
(Complaint ¶ 56.)
 
This
court agrees with Plaintiff that the specificity requirements are relaxed as it
pertains to the marketing materials because Defendant Ford Motor Company should
possess the full facts pertaining to who created those materials. However, this
court disagrees with Plaintiff that the specificity requirements are relaxed as
it pertains to Defendant Ford Motor Company’s agents who made
misrepresentations to Plaintiff during the sales process because it is
Plaintiff, not Defendant Ford Motor Company, who is more likely to know which
of the agents made specific misrepresentations to Plaintiff during the sales
process.
 
Thus,
the misrepresentation element of Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment cause of
action is not alleged with the required specificity.
 
Next,
Defendants argue Plaintiff failed to allege a duty to disclose because
Plaintiff failed to plead a direct transactional relationship, failed to allege
Defendant had exclusive knowledge, failed to plead Defendant actively concealed
information, and failed to plead Defendant made a partial representation while
suppressing material facts. (Demurrer pp. 12-16.) 
 
“There
are ‘four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant Ford
Motor Company had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to Defendant.
(Complaint ¶¶ 42, 56.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendant Ford Motor
Company knew about the transmission defect but “concealed the existence of
those defects from Plaintiff[.]” (Complaint ¶ 21.) Accordingly, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged a duty to disclose.
 
The
remaining elements of fraudulent concealment are plead with the required
specificity.
 
Plaintiff
alleges “FORD was aware of the defects in the Subject Vehicle and other
vehicles equipped with its 10R80 transmission[,]” and “knew that Plaintiff did
not know a material fact and further knew that such facts were not readily
accessible to Plaintiff because FORD actively concealed those facts.”
(Complaint ¶¶ 72-73.) Specifically, Plaintiff alleges “[t]he marketing
brochures drafted, produced, and distributed by FORD and its agents touted the
characteristics of the Subject Vehicle and its 10R80 transmission, while not
disclosing the defects in the 10R80 transmission. FORD disclosed some facts . .
. but intentionally failed to disclose the defects in the 10R80 transmission,
making the disclosure deceptive.” (Complaint ¶ 147.) Plaintiff also cites
examples of the misleading representations Defendant Ford Motor Company allegedly
made in its printed marketing materials. (Complaint ¶ 147.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendant Ford Motor Company knew of the falsity
and intended to defraud Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff
alleges they “would not have purchased or leased the Subject Vehicle, or would
have paid significantly less for it, had they known of the Transmission Defect
and the safety hazard it creates.” (Complaint ¶ 41.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges
justifiable reliance.
 
Plaintiff
alleges damages, including “diminution in the value of Plaintiff’s vehicle,
out-of-pocket expenses, damages in the amount of the different between the
value of the vehicle equipped with the defective transmission and the value of
the vehicle had it been equipped as warranted, and reliance damages” and
“expenses relating to registration, insurance, and maintenance of the Subject
Vehicle.” (Complaint ¶ 157.) Plaintiff also alleges that “[a]s a further result
of the ongoing concealment and misrepresentations, Plaintiff incurred an
immediate reduction in value at the time they drove the car off the lot,
incurred ongoing depreciation of the Subject Vehicle’s value, and any
opportunity to reduce their accumulating damages associated with a defective, depreciating
asset.” (Complaint ¶ 158.) Accordingly, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges damages.
 
ii.              
Economic
Loss Rule
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment cause of action is barred by the
economic loss rule. (Demurrer p. 18.) 
 
“[T]he
economic loss rule ‘prevents the law of contract and the law of tort from
dissolving one into the other’” and provides that “[w]here a purchaser’s
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) “The economic loss rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.” (Id.) “Conduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it violates a duty independent of the contract
arising from principles of tort law.” (Id. at p. 989.)
 
[T]he
economic loss rule does not apply to limit recovery for intentional tort claims
like fraud.” (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1,
38.) “Under California law, a
plaintiff may assert a cause of action for fraudulent concealment based on
conduct occurring in the course of a contractual relationship, if the elements
of the claim can be established independently of the parties' contractual rights
and obligations and the tortious conduct exposes the plaintiff to a risk of
harm beyond the reasonable contemplation of the parties when they entered into
the contract.” (Id. at p. 45.)
 
Citing
Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, review
granted Feb. 1, 2023, Plaintiff argues the fraudulent concealment cause of
action is not barred by the economic loss rule. (Opposition p. 5.)
 
In Dhital,
plaintiffs sued a car manufacturer alleging their vehicle’s transmission was
defective and alleged a cause of action for fraudulent concealment inducing
plaintiffs to purchase the car. (Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc., supra, 84
Cal.App.5th at p. 832.) The trial court sustained the defendant’s demurrer and
held the fraudulent concealment cause of action was barred by the economic loss
rule. On appeal, the Court held that “the economic loss rule d[id] not bar
plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement claim” and also rejected the defendant’s
argument that plaintiffs had not adequately plead their fraudulent inducement
cause of action. (Id. at p. 833.)
 
Relying
on Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th 979,
the Dhital Court noted that “Robinson did not hold that any
claims for fraudulent concealment are barred by the economic loss rule. Quite
the contrary, the Robinson court affirmed that tort damages are
available in contract cases where the contract was fraudulently induced.” (Dhital
v. Nissan N. Am., Inc., supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 839.) 
 
Defendants
argue that because Dhital is under review, it has only persuasive value.
(Reply p. 6.) However, this court notes that the cases Defendants cite that
have held the economic loss rule does not apply to fraudulent concealment
claims are federal cases, and are, therefore, also only citable for their
persuasive value. (Reply pp. 6-7.)
 
The
California Supreme Court recently held that “the economic loss rule does not
apply to limit recovery for intentional tort claims like fraud.” (Rattagan
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 38.) Moreover, this court
finds that Dhital is persuasive. 
 
Accordingly,
this court overrules Defendants’ demurrer on the grounds the economic loss rule
bars Plaintiff’s fraudulent inducement cause of action. Should Dhital be
reversed while this case is pending, Defendants may revisit the issue.
 

Fifth Cause of Action for
     Negligent Repair

 
i.                
Economic
Loss Rule
 
Defendants
argue that “[t]he crux of Plaintiff’s claim is that Vista Ford failed to repair
Plaintiff’s vehicle to conform to warrant” and [t]he claim arises from, and is
not independent of, the warranty contract.” (Demurrer p. 18.)
 
Generally,
a plaintiff may not recover in tort for “negligently inflicted ‘purely economic
losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.”
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) Further,
in Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc., supra, 17 Cal.5th, at pp. 20-21,
the California Supreme Court stated that: “[U]nder the economic loss rule, tort
recovery for breach of contract is generally barred . . . unless two conditions
are satisfied. A plaintiff must first demonstrate the defendant’s
injury-causing conduct violated a duty that is independent of the duties and
rights assumed by the parties when they entered the contract. Second, the
defendant’s conduct must have caused injury to persons or property that was not
reasonably contemplated by the parties when the contract was formed.”
 
Similarly,
in Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p.
989, the California Supreme Court noted that “In Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543,
551, 87 Cal.Rptr.2d 886, 981 P.2d 978, we held that a party's
contractual obligation may create a legal duty and that a breach of that duty
may support a tort action. We stated, ‘[C]onduct amounting to a breach of
contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the
contract arising from principles of tort law.’: “Where a purchaser’s
expectations in sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses.” (Id. at p. 988.)
 
Relying
on North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
764, 774, and Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, Plaintiff
argues “the economic loss rule does not apply in cases involving the negligent
performance of services that results in foreseeable economic loss and
Plaintiffs’ claim falls within the exception articulated by Jimenez.”
(Opposition pp. 13-16.) 
 
In North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 774, the
Court of Appeal stated: “A contract to perform services gives rise to a duty of
care which requires such services be performed in a competent and reasonable
manner. A negligent failure to do so may be both a breach of contract and a
tort. [Citation] In such a hybrid circumstance, the plaintiff is entitled to
pursue both legal theories until an occasion for an election of remedies
arises.” In a negligent performance case, a plaintiff is “entitled to recover
economic loss damages without the need to allege and prove personal injury or
property damage.” (Id. at p. 785.) The court considers six criteria: “(1) the extent to
which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to
the defendant's conduct, and (6) the policy of preventing future harm.” (Id.
at p. 782.) “[T]he foreseeability of the economic harm to the plaintiff from
the defendant’s negligent conduct [is] the critical factor.” (Id.)
 
Although North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court has not been expressly overruled,
this court is not persuaded it should apply North American Chemical Co. v.
Superior Court, rather than more recent California Supreme Court cases, including
Rattagan and Robinson Helicopter Co., that state there must be a
duty independent of the contract.
 
Further, Jimenez v.
Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th 473 is distinguishable from this case. In
Jimenez v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court considered two
issues: “(1) Can a manufacturer of windows installed in a mass-produced home
during its construction ever be strictly liable in tort for harm resulting from
defects in those windows? (2) If so, is that manufacturer strictly liable in
tort for resulting physical damage to other parts of the house in which the
windows have been installed?” The Court stated, “the economic loss rule allows
a plaintiff to recover in strict products liability in tort when a product defect
causes damage to ‘other property.’ The law of contractual warranty governs
damage to the product itself.” (Id. at p. 483.) The Court further noted
that “California decisional law has long recognized that the economic loss rule
does not necessarily bar recovery in tort for damage that a defective product
(e.g., a window) causes to other portions of a larger product (e.g., a house)
into which the former has been incorporated.” (Id. at p. 484.) The Court
concluded that “the manufacturer of a defective window installed in a
mass-produced home may be held strictly liable in tort for damage that the
window’s defect causes to other parts of the home in which it is installed.” (Id.)
 
This case does not
involve strict liability. Moreover, Plaintiff has not alleged that the repairs
performed by Defendant Vista caused damage to other parts of the Vehicle. In
contrast, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff delivered the Subject Vehicle to
FORD’s authorized repair facility, which was not able to conform the Subject
Vehicle to the terms of the express warranty within thirty (30) days.”
(Complaint ¶ 134.) 
 
Plaintiff
is alleging Plaintiff took the Vehicle to Defendant Vista Ford to perform
repair work pursuant to Plaintiff’s warranty. Plaintiff alleges no property damage
or physical harm. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s remedy, in the absence of a physical
injury or other property damage, is under the contract. Thus, under the
economic loss rule, Plaintiff’s remedy is a claim for breach of contract, not
negligent repair.
 
This court sustains the
demurrer on the ground the economic loss rule bars the negligent repair cause
of action.
 
ii.              
Damages
 
Finally,
Defendants argue “Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim also fails because the
Complaint fails to plead facts to show that Vista Ford’s conduct resulted in
any damages.” (Demurrer p. 20.) Defendants argue that “Plaintiff does not
allege he paid out-of-pocket for any repairs performed by Vista Ford” but
instead alleges that “the repairs were covered by the vehicle’s warranties.”
(Demurrer p. 20.) And “[i]n the absence of Plaintiff alleging that he actually
paid out of pocket for any repairs, Plaintiff cannot establish damages for
purposes of his negligent repair claim.” (Demurrer p. 20.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges in the complaint that “Defendant Vista Ford Lincoln’s negligent breach
of its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s damages.”
(Complaint ¶ 165.)  Defendants cite no
authority for the proposition that a complaint is insufficient unless a plaintiff
alleges they paid for repairs out-of-pocket. (Demurrer p. 20.) At this stage,
this court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently plead damages.
 
V.             
LEAVE
TO AMEND 
 
“Where
the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of
cure, ‘leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff
a chance to cure the defect in question.’” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City
of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) 
 
 This
court finds there is a reasonable probability Plaintiff can amend the complaint
and grants Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
December 18, 2024
 
__________________________________
                                                            Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107,
Van Nuys
                                                                                    Los Angeles County Superior Court