 Case Number:  21STCV09586    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  PAUL MARTIN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SMART & FINAL STORES, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV09586  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 16, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Paul Martin filed this action against Defendant Smart & Final Stores, LLC (“Smart & Final”) for damages arising from an assault by a third party while outside of the Smart & Final store. Plaintiff sets forth two causes of action for premises liability and general negligence.  Smart & Final filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1-50 for express indemnification, equitable indemnification, equitable contribution, and declaratory relief. Thereafter, Smart & Final filed an amendment to its cross-complaint to name Barry's Security Services, Inc. as Roe 1. At this time, Cross-Defendant Barry's Security Services, Inc. (“BSSI”) moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, against Cross-Complainant Smart & Final. Smart & Final opposes the motion, and BSSI filed a reply.  Moving Argument  BSSI argues it is entitled to summary judgment because there is no express indemnity provision in the parties’ contract, and that BSSI is not liable for third party criminal acts as a matter of law since the contract delineates the scope of the security guards’ duties.    Opposing Argument Smart & Final argues that the contract for security services between the parties state BSSI’s security guards "shall report any unusual incidents or hazardous conditions as soon as practical to [Cross-Complainant]." Smart & Final contends BSSI’s security guard had a common law duty to protect Plaintiff, and a contractual duty to report incidents to store management.   Reply Argument BSSI contends that Smart & Final does not dispute there was no express indemnity, and that the contract specifically limited BSSI’s liability for any third-party criminal conduct because BSSI has no responsibility for anything not caused by it. BSSI reasserts that it is not liable for Plaintiff’s injuries under contract or any other theory.  II. Evidentiary Objections BSSI submits a single evidentiary objection to the police report. The objection is sustained.   III. Legal Standard Burdens on Summary Judgment/Adjudication Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)   The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66, [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)  Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.) Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) A party may move for summary adjudication as follows:  A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (CCP § 437c(f)(1).) Thus, “Summary adjudication motions are restricted to an entire cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for punitive damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Travelers Indemnity Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.1538, 1542 [disagreed with on different grounds in by Sentry Select Ins. Co. v. Fidelity & Guaranty Ins. Co. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 204].)  Negligence and Premises Liability The elements of a negligence and premises liability cause of action are the same: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.  (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)   Businesses, such as shopping centers, restaurants and bars, have an affirmative duty to take reasonable steps to secure their premises against reasonably foreseeable criminal acts of third parties.  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.)  The nature of the reasonable steps required of the business depends on the circumstances. At the very least, it must undertake reasonable and minimally burdensome measures to assist customers and invitees who face danger from imminent or ongoing criminal conduct occurring on the premises or in the presence of the business owner/manager or its employees, including calling police when witnessing an assault (unless doing so might increase the danger or lead to reprisals).  (Kentucky Fried Chicken of Calif., Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 823.)   The extent to which a business must take measures to prevent criminal conduct (e.g., hiring security guards) is determined largely under general negligence principles per Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.  The most important consideration is the foreseeability of third persons' criminal conduct, determined primarily by incidents of prior similar conduct. Other factors include the closeness of connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered; the “moral blame” attached to the defendant's conduct; the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty of care with resulting liability for breach; and the availability, cost and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.   (Delgado, supra, at 236-247.)    The threshold issue is whether the landlord had reason to anticipate risks of third party criminal activity (or other tortious conduct) on the premises. If the landlord had reason to know of a particular risk, he or she has a duty to warn tenants (or their guests and invitees) and to take reasonable security precautions for their benefit.  (Margaret W. v. Kelley R. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 141, 156-57.)  On the other hand, no landlord negligence liability attaches in the absence of evidence the landlord was put on notice, or had reason to know based on the facts of which the landlord was aware, of the threat of criminal activity in or around the premises and that the landlord could reasonably have prevented the particular harm.  (Hassoon v. Shamieh (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1191, 1195.)     Traditionally, foreseeability of the risk does not necessarily turn on whether the same type of activity or event already occurred on the premises. Rather, the issue is whether, in light of all the facts and circumstances (including the nature, condition and location of the premises, as well as the landlord's prior experience), the landlord had reason to anticipate the general character of the event or harm, not its precise nature or manner of occurrence.  (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hosp. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 129.)  However, where a “burdensome” duty is to be imposed on the landowner (e.g., requiring private security guards or other heightened security measures), a “high degree of foreseeability” is required. And “the requisite degree of foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent crime on the landowner's premises.”  (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Ctr. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679.)    IV. Discussion As to a cross-complaint alleging another is responsible for the plaintiff’s injuries, to state a claim for equitable indemnity, the defendant must allege the same harm for which the defendant may be held liable is properly attributable wholly or partly to the cross-defendant. (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445 n. 7.) Smart & Final alleged four causes of action against BSSI: (1) express indemnification, (2) equitable indemnification, (3) equitable contribution, and (4) declaratory relief. BSSI moves for summary judgment or adjudication as to each cause of action brought by Smart & Final. The Incident Here, Plaintiff alleges that on March 6, 2020, while walking towards Smart & Final store No. 332, located at 604 Lincoln Blvd, Venice, California, Plaintiff engaged in a verbal confrontation with someone outside of the store. (UMF 1.) Plaintiff alleges that he informed the security guard inside the store that there was an individual loitering outside the store making threats. (UMF 2.) After exiting the store, while in the parking lot, the individual that Plaintiff had exchanged words with prior to entering the store, struck Plaintiff with a skateboard, hitting and injuring Plaintiff’s left forearm. (UMF 3.) Plaintiff punched the individual in return. (UMF 4.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Smart & Final Stores, LLC, did not protect its premises from a known danger, and that Defendant failed to take reasonable actions to avoid the dangerous condition that existed on the subject premises. (UMF 5.)  The last contract that was executed between Smart & Final Stores, LLC, and Cross-Defendant was for the term September 1, 2014 - September 1, 2015. (UMF 6.) Both parties continued to perform the contract according to its terms after the contract expired on September 1, 2015. (UMF 7.) No oral changes were made to the agreement between Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant, and any oral modifications stated outside of the contract were to be considered null and void, unless in writing and agreed upon by Cross-Defendant. (UMF 8.) The contract does not include a provision to defend, indemnify, and hold Cross-Complainant harmless for anything other than in relation to hazardous materials. (UMF 9.) The contract’s specific instructions state that the security officer’s “responsibility is to observe and report only.” (UMF 10.) The general instructions within the contract include that “store management must initiate any and all contact with suspicious persons.” (UMF 11.) Security officer Trimel Drain (“Drain”) was working at the subject store on the date of the incident. (UMF 13.) The contract limits Cross-Defendant’s liability, “BSSI shall not take any responsibility for anything that arises that was not caused by BSSI or its employees, agents, or contractors.” (UMF 15.) The Contract On September 1, 2014, Smart & Final and BSSI entered into a Service Contract (“the Contract”) for security service to guard and/or patrol named premises to check for fire, theft, vandalism, property damage, irregularities and to carry out specified instructions as stated in the Post Orders. (Blakney Decl., Exh. A.) The Contract provides in relevant part that, in addition to the duties described in the Post Orders, the security guards of BSSI shall perform the following general security duties: “Security guards shall report any unusual incidents or hazardous conditions as soon as practical to such persons as may be designated by Client.” (Ibid.) Under Limits of Liability, BSSI provides that the security services does not constitute maximum security but provides a degree of security resulting from the reasonable efforts of security personnel to carry out mutually agreed upon security procedures during the hours mutually agreed upon. The Contract also provides that BSSI shall not take any responsibility for anything that arises that was not caused by BSSI or its employees, agents or contractors. The Mutual Indemnification section provides that BSSI “shall also indemnify, defend and hold harmless Client…against all liability, demands, claims, costs, losses, damages, recoveries, settlements, and expenses, including without limitation claims based in tort or for personnel injury incurred by Client, known or unknown, contingent or otherwise, directly or indirectly arising from or related to the acts and omissions of BSSI and its officers, directors, shareholders, employees, agents, and representatives, and invitees with respect to:… (b) any personal injury (including wrongful death) or property damage (real or personal) arising from or related to such hazardous materials.” The Additional Notes/Duties provides, in pertinent part, that the officer must report suspicious activity to store management and that Store Management must initiate any and all contact with suspicious persons with the security officer providing support.  1st C/A - Express Indemnity An indemnity obligation may arise from “express contractual language establishing a duty in one party to save another upon the occurrence of specified circumstances” or “in equitable considerations brought into play either by contractual language not specifically dealing with indemnification or by the equities of the particular case.”  (E.L. White, Inc. v. City of Huntington Beach (1978) 21 Cal.3d 497, 506-507.)  Courts interpret indemnity agreements according to the language and contents of the contract as well as the intention of the parties as indicated by the contract.  (Myers Building Industries, Ltd. v. Interface Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 968.)  “[T[he specificity of the language used is a key factor in construction of an indemnity agreement.  ‘To obtain greater indemnity, more specific language must be used.’”  (Heppler v. J.M. Peters Co. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1278, citation omitted.) In terms of express indemnity, BSSI met its burden that the indemnity provision of the contract is related only to hazardous materials. The burden shifts to Smart & Final. However, Smart & Final appears to concede that there are no disputable issues as to its first cause of action, and only argues there are disputable facts for the second, third, and fourth causes of action.  Therefore, adjudication is GRANTED as to the first cause of action for express indemnity.   2nd C/A - Equitable Indemnity “The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is contractually or equitably responsible.”  (Expressions at Rancho Niguel Ass'n v. Ahmanson Developments, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139; Fremont Reorganizing Corp. v. Faigin (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1177 [“A right of equitable indemnity can arise only if the prospective indemnitor and indemnitee are mutually liable to another person for the same injury.”].)    “[I]f the evidence establishes that a defendant is not a concurrent tortfeasor responsible in any way for the plaintiff's injuries, another defendant may not pursue a claim for indemnity against that defendant.”  (Frank v. State of California (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 488, 494.)  “ ‘A key restrictive feature of traditional equitable indemnity is that, on matters of substantive law, the doctrine is “wholly derivative....” [Citations.] This rule “is often expressed in the shorthand phrase ‘... there can be no indemnity without liability.’ ” [Citation.]’ ”  (Centex Homes v. Superior Court (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1090, 1099.)  Here, BSSI avers it is not primarily liable to Plaintiff for his injuries caused by a third party outside of a Smart & Final Store, because BSSI’s security services contract is to observe, and to be present at the store’s entrance and exit for the purpose of deterring crime within the store. BSSI has met its prima facie burden that the purpose of the contract was to deter shoplifting inside the store premises. The burden then shifts to Smart & Final to provide evidence of an issue of material fact. Smart & Final contends Plaintiff was injured by a man named Joshua Hodel (“Hodel”). Hodel threatened Plaintiff, and Plaintiff reported these threats to BSSI’s security guard Trimel Drain (“Drain”). Drain did not report the threat to management as required by the Contract, and later physically intervened during the confrontation between Hodel and Drain. Smart & Final argues BSSI was negligent under negligent undertaking, common law standard negligence, and professional negligence.  Plaintiff testified as he was approaching Smart & Final, he saw a man, later identified as Hodel, who screamed profanity and threats to Plaintiff as Plaintiff was passing by, making statements such as “I’m going to hurt you.” (Opp. Exh. B., Plaintiff Depo. p. 20, lines 12-21.) Plaintiff then entered the store to shop, and Plaintiff saw a security guard for the first time while Plaintiff was at the cash register. (Id. at p. 25, lines 7-18.) Plaintiff said to the security guard that there was a man outside making violent threats to customers as they walked in, and that it scared Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 26, lines 15-19.) The security guard responded that if it didn’t happen inside the store, then it was not his problem. (Id. at p. 27, lines 13-18.) Plaintiff exited Smart & Final, and as he was walking, Hodel was no longer sitting and ran at Plaintiff within ten to twelve seconds after Plaintiff left the store. (Id. at p. p. 34, lines 5-12.) Plaintiff had just put his hoodie on and was looking at his feet when Hodel came at Plaintiff and struck Plaintiff with a skateboard on the left arm, and Plaintiff retaliated by hitting him. During the altercation, the same security guard Plaintiff had spoken to came outside and grabbed Hodel to stop him. Plaintiff heard the security guard say to Hodel, something along the lines of, “hey, man, we talked last week. You remember me. You’re a good guy,” and Plaintiff was under the impression that the security guard knew Hodel. (Id. at p. 38, lines 2-19.)  To determine the existence and scope of duty, courts consider the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, and the extent of the burden to the defendant of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach.  (Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113.) In terms of third-party criminal conduct, foreseeability of the risk does not necessarily turn on whether the same type of activity or event already occurred on the premises, but whether, in light of all the facts and circumstances there is reason to anticipate the general character of the event or harm, not its precise nature or manner of occurrence. (Isaacs, supra, at 129.)  Based on Plaintiff’s testimony alone, there is a triable issue of material fact as whether BSSI’s employee breached a contractual duty by not reporting to management that a patron had reported there was a man outside of the store threatening violence. Whether or not the security guard’s obligation of reporting suspicious activity extended to only issues arising inside the store as opposed to issues immediately outside the store is, in itself, an issue of material fact. Furthermore, it is currently unknown if Drain had any prior knowledge of Hodel’s erratic behavior or any knowledge of a tendency to do violence in terms of foreseeability. Drain has yet to be deposed, and the Court agrees that Drain’s deposition may potentially yield more information as to BSSI’s liability as a potential concurrent tortfeasor. Therefore, adjudication is DENIED as to the second cause of action for equitable indemnity.   3rd and 4th C/A - Contribution and Declaratory Relief Furthermore, the elements of contribution are: (1) money judgment; (2) rendered jointly against defendants; (3) in tort action; (4) application of equity principles; (5) payment by tortfeasor of more than pro rata share; and (6) no intentional injury by the tortfeasor.  (CCP §875; General Elec. Co. v. State of Cal. ex rel. Dept. Pub. Wks. (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 918, 925.)  Additionally, there are two essential elements for declaratory relief: “(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to [Cross-Complainant's] rights or obligations.”  (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) As discussed above, there are issues of material fact as to whether BSSI’s employee complied with its contractual duties by not reporting Plaintiff’s complaint to management, whether BSSI’s employee had any foreseeable knowledge of Hodel’s actions, and whether BSSI’s acts or omissions caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. Thus, there exists a real controversy as to the determination of rights and duties under contract based on the foregoing.  Therefore, adjudication is DENIED as to the third cause of action for contribution and fourth cause of action for declaratory relief.   V. Conclusion  BSSI’s motion is GRANTED as to the first cause of action, but DENIED as to the second, third, and fourth causes of action.   Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 13th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   