 Case Number:  21STCV23377    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  39 Sari
Ehrenreich-Aronowitz v. Bruce M. Newmann
Case No.
21STCV23377
Motion for Leave to File Second Amended
Complaint
 
            Plaintiff Sari Ehrenreich-Aronowitz
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against her brother, Bruce M. Newmann
(“Defendant”), on June 23, 2021.  The
parties each own 50% of a limited liability company that owns a 12-unit apartment
building.  In the operative first amended
complaint, Plaintiff asserts seven causes of action, alleging that Defendant
did not pay Plaintiff her rightful share of the revenue profits of the limited
liability company.  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant made unauthorized distributions of revenue and profit to himself
since 2006 and failed to account to Plaintiff for her ownership interest in the
limited liability company.  
 
The parties previously appeared before the Court on Plaintiff’s motion
for appointment of a receiver, but the parties resolved the issue with the
Court’s assistance.  The parties have
been discussing settlement, having participated in a mediation session with
Judge John Doyle on November 21, 2023. 
The parties have agreed to have the property appraised and participate
in a second mediation session with Judge Doyle. 
However, Plaintiff now seeks leave to file a second amended
complaint.  
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by ther code.”  The Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings
“upon any terms as may be just.”  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) 
Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the
parties and, therefore, leave to amend is liberally granted.  (Berman
vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  “[I]t is an abuse of discretion
for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to add two
additional causes of action: (1) Involuntary dissolution of the limited
liability company, and (2) “[C]onversion based on the facts already alleged and
developed through discovery in this case. 
Plaintiff suggests that she will not propound any additional discovery
because “[n]o additional discovery is made necessary.”  The Court agrees that these additional causes
of action do not expand the scope of the case or necessitate additional
discovery than what would otherwise be required for the remaining causes of
action.  The Court also notes that the
parties’ settlement discussions—both relating to the motion to appoint a
receiver and with Judge Doyle—are good cause for the delay in filing this
motion.   Defendant argues that the trial date is less
than four months away.  That provides
sufficient time to prepare for a trial that will include these additional
causes of action.  Nevertheless, a trial
continuance is the remedy to such concerns.
 
Based upon the foregoing, the
Court orders as follows:
 
1.       The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion on the following
conditions: (a) Plaintiff will propound no further written discovery in this
case; and (2) Plaintiff will stipulate to a trial continuance if requested by
Defendant’s counsel.  
 
2.       Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and file proof of
such with the Court.  
 