 Case Number:  22STCV30336    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  39 Xiaoliang
Liu, et al. v. Bank of America, et al.
Case
No. 22STCV30336
 
Order
#1 of 3
Demurrer
by East West Bank
 
            Plaintiffs
Xiaoliang Liu and Chuwei Zhang (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Bank of America, East West Bank, and Wu Di (collectively, “Defendants”).  Previously, the Court sustained East West
Bank’s demurrer to the second amended complaint.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 31,
2023.)  The Court granted leave to amend
with respect to certain causes of action. 
Now, East West Bank demurs to every cause of action as follows:
 
            Second
COA – Negligent Hiring/Supervision 
            Fifth
COA – Negligent Misrepresentation 
            Ninth
COA – Unfair Competition under Business & Professions Code § 17200
            Tenth
COA – Negligence 
 
The Court has reviewed the
redline version of the third amended complaint. 
The Court sustains the demurrer largely for the reason reasons it
sustained the prior demurrer, and the Court incorporates by reference its order
of July 31, 2023, but also provides a brief summary in this order.  
 
            As
an initial matter, Plaintiffs cannot assert a negligence claim against East
West Bank because there is no duty under these circumstances.  The relationship of a bank and its depositor
is based upon contract.  (See Chaven v. Centennial
Bank (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 532, 537.)  Under
the contract, banks owe depositors only specific duties of care: “the
duty to honor checks properly payable from the depositor’s account; the duty to
dishonor checks lacking required signatures; and the duty to render faithful
and accurate accounts under the contract of deposit . . . .”  (Kurtz-Ahlers, LLC v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 952, 956, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Plaintiffs cite no law making clear that a
referral to “a local real estate agent who could assist [Plaintiffs] with both currency
exchange and the purchase of a new home” falls within the scope of a bank’s duty.  
            
            Putting
that aside, Plaintiffs cannot establish a breach of any duty, or the elements
of their fifth cause of action, negligent misrepresentation.  The elements of negligent misrepresentation
are: (1) The misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) Without
reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) With intent to induce
another’s reliance on the misrepresented fact, (4) Justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) Damages as a result of the misrepresentation.  (See National Union Fire Company of
Pittsburg, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 35, 50.)  In this case,
Plaintiffs allege no facts suggesting that Eva Zhang was, or should have been,
on notice that Yolanda Lu was incompetent or corrupt, i.e., that Yolanda Lu
could not or would not perform the services for which she was being recommended.  For example, Plaintiffs do not allege that Yolanda
Lu had been subject to criminal investigations or lawsuits over similar issues
which easily could have been discovered with a simple internet search.  Similarly, Plaintiffs do not allege that Eva
Zhang represented that Yolanda Lu had successfully performed these services for
others, knowing that she had not done so. 
Instead, Plaintiffs make conclusory allegations.  Plaintiffs allege only that Zhang had “negative
information” about Yolanda Lu but Plaintiffs do not explain what “negative
information” put her on notice that Yolanda Lu was unfit.  Similarly, Plaintiffs allege that Eva Zhang’s
referral and endorsement “created the impression” that Yolanda Lu was employed
by East-West Bank, but Plaintiffs do not allege any misrepresentation on this issue.
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs cannot establish that East West Bank was negligent in its hiring or
supervision of Eva Zhang.  In order to
assert such a claim, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) Defendant hired and supervised
an employee; (2) The employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) The employer had
reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and
(4) Harm occurred.  (See Federico v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.1207, 1213-1214.)  Because Plaintiffs cannot establish that Eva
Zhang knew or should have known that Yolanda Lu was incompetent or corrupt,
Plaintiffs cannot demonstrate that Zhang was incompetent or unfit for her
position or that East West Bank knew or should have known that Zhang’s continued
employment would post an undue risk of harm. 
 
            At
heart, Plaintiffs’ claims against East West Bank are based upon a strict
liability theory: The bank referred Plaintiffs to a real estate professional,
Yolanda Lu; Plaintiffs allege that Yolanda Lu stole their money; and as a
result East West Bank is liable.  In the
absence of facts suggesting that Eva Zhang knew or should have known that
Yolanda Lu was incompetent or corrupt, there is no basis to find any breach of
duty (assuming there was a duty), any negligent misrepresentation by East West Bank,
or any negligent supervision of Eva Zhang. 
Accordingly, the Court also sustains the demurrer to the ninth cause of
action against East West Bank.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         East West Bank’s demurrer is sustained.
 
            2.         The Court denies leave to amend.  Plaintiffs have filed four complaints
already.  The Court previously granted
leave to amend, and Plaintiffs filed largely the same complaint with the same
defects.  
 
3.         Counsel for East West Bank shall
provide notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 
 


 
Order
#2 of 3
Demurrer
by Bank of America
 
Plaintiffs
Xiaoliang Liu and Chuwei Zhang (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Bank of America, East West Bank, and Wu Di (collectively, “Defendants”).  Previously, the Court sustained Bank of
America’s demurrer to the second amended complaint.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 31,
2023.)  The Court granted leave to amend
with respect to certain causes of action. 
Now, Bank of America demurs to every cause of action as follows:
 
            First
COA – Breach of Contract
            Second
COA – Negligent Hiring/Supervision 
            Sixth
COA – Breach of Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing 
            Seventh
COA – Violation of UCC Article 4A
            Eighth
COA – Violation of Electronic Funds Transfer Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1693
            Ninth
COA – Unfair Competition under Business & Professions Code § 17200
            Tenth
COA – Negligence 
 
The Court has reviewed the
redline version of the third amended complaint. 
The Court incorporates by reference its order of July 31, 2023, and
rules as follows:
 
A.        First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract 
 
The Court previously
sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to amend.  In the second amended complaint, Plaintiff
alleged that there was an “express and implied” contract that Bank of America
would “implement and utilize the most effective security measures available to
prevent fraudulent transactions or account takeovers.” (Second Amended
Complaint, ¶ 45.) The Court found that is not sufficient for a breach of an
“express” contract.  (See Court’s Minute
Order, dated July 31, 2023.)  The Court ruled:
“Plaintiffs must attach a copy of the contract or cite the relevant terms in
the body of the complaint.  If the breach
of contract is based only on ‘implied’ terms, the complaint must make that
clear, as those allegations usually form the basis of a cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”  (Ibid.) 
 
The third
amended complaint does not correct this issue because Plaintiffs’ counsel still
does not attach a copy of the contract or quote the terms verbatim, as
required: “If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.”  (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307, citing Otworth v. Southern Pacific Transportation
Company (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459.) 
This is especially important in cases against banks because the
relationship of a bank and its depositor is strictly prescribed by contract.  (See Chaven v. Centennial Bank (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
532, 537.)  Under the contract, banks
owe depositors only specific duties of care: “the duty to honor checks properly
payable from the depositor’s account; the duty to dishonor checks lacking
required signatures; and the duty to render faithful and accurate accounts
under the contract of deposit . . . .”  (Kurtz-Ahlers,
LLC v. Bank of America, N.A. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 952, 956, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  Plaintiffs
do not attach a copy of the contract. 
Plaintiffs do not cite the relevant provisions of the contract, instead
making generalized allegations concerning the terms of the contract.  Most important, Plaintiffs still allege that the
terms may only be “implied.”  
 
Based upon the foregoing,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the first cause of action.  The Court declines to grant leave to amend.  Plaintiffs are on the third amended
complaint, and the Court previously granted leave to amend to no avail.
 
B.        Seventh Cause of Action – Violation of UCC Article 4A
 
            Plaintiffs’
seventh cause of action alleges a violation of the Uniform Commercial Code,
Article 4a, reflected in Commercial Code section 11101 et seq.  The third amended complaint alleges that Bank
of America violated Commercial Code section 11202 because “transfers were made
without BOA following appropriate and reasonable security precautions to ensure
that the funds being transferred had not been illegal obtained by the transferor,
in defiance of significant ‘red flags’ that warned BOA that the transfers
consisted of funds that had only recently been transferred into the sending accounts
by reason of highly suspicious activities . . . and by ignoring BOA’s own
procedures requiring compliance with reasonable security procedures associated
with such wire transfers.”  (Third
Amended Complaint, ¶ 102.)  
 
            Previously,
the Court sustained Bank of America’s demurrer. 
This article applies to “fund transfers,” and Plaintiffs did not allege
that there were “fund transfers” from their accounts.  Instead, Plaintiffs allege only that unknown persons
engaged in “account takeover” and had money “wrongfully extracted” from their
accounts, or that there were “unauthorized transfers” of funds.  (See Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 39(a).)  The Court granted leave to amend, and Plaintiffs
now allege that Bank of America “carried out wire transfers to third party bank
accounts belonging to individuals or entities presumably affiliated and/or
acting in concert with the criminals who had stolen the money from [Plaintiff’s]
account.”  (Third Amended Complaint, ¶
101.)  
 
            Bank
of America demurs to the third amended complaint, arguing that there was no wire
transfer from Plaintiff Zhang’s account. 
Rather, Plaintiffs allege that there were electronic transfers from
Plaintiff Zhang’s account to another Bank of America account.  (See Third Amended Complaint, ¶ 105.)  Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to
the seventh cause of action without leave to amend.
 
C.        Eighth Cause of Action – Violation of Electronic Funds Transfer
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1693
 
            Plaintiffs’
eighth cause of action is for violation of the Electronic Funds Transfer Act,
15 U.S.C. § 1693, for “wrongful and fraudulent internal electronic transfer of
funds from plaintiffs’ accounts.”  (Third
Amended Complaint, ¶ 104.)  The Court
previously sustained Bank of America’s demurrer on this cause of action because
the second amended complaint did not clear allege an electronic transfer.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 31, 2023.)  The third amended complaint now details a
series of electronic transfers but it omits the dates.  (See Third Amended Complaint, ¶ 105.)  
 
            This
cause of action has a one-year statute of limitations, which begins running from
“the date of the occurrence of the violation.” 
(See 15 U.S.C. § 1693m(g).)  This
is a jurisdictional deadline. 
(Ibid.)  It is Plaintiffs’ burden
to allege facts sufficient to demonstrate that the claims are timely, and
Plaintiffs fail to do so.  Previously,
Plaintiffs’ counsel admitted that these transfers occurred on October 21, 2020.  (See Request for Judicial Notice, p.
63.)  The Court grants Bank of America’s
request for judicial notice, and its contents constitute judicial admissions.  This action was filed on September 16, 2022, almost
one year after the statute of limitations ran.
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel argues that there is equitable tolling because Bank of America was
required to investigate the claim.  There
are two problems with this argument.  First,
Plaintiffs’ counsel cites no federal law authorizing tolling of this cause of
action, especially in light that the statute of limitations is titled as being
a jurisdictional issue.  Second,
Plaintiffs allege no facts in the third amended complaint suggesting that equitable
tolling would apply.  Under federal law,
equitable tolling is appropriate in situations where the defendant misleads the
plaintiff or when the plaintiff has no reasonable way of discovering the wrong
perpetrated against her.  (See, e.g.,
Cabello v. Fernandez-Larios, 402 F.3d 1148, 1155 (11th Cir. 2005).)  The Ninth Circuit has formulated the elements
of equitable tolling more succinctly: (1) Fraudulent conduct by the defendant
resulting in concealment of operative facts; (2) Failure of the plaintiff to
discovery the operative facts that are the basis of the cause of action within
the limitations period; and (3) Due diligence by the plaintiff until discovery
of those facts.  (See Federal Election
Commission v. Williams, 104 F.3d 237, 240-241 (9th Cir. 1996).)  Plaintiffs allege no facts demonstrating that
equitable tolling applies.  It is difficult
to envision a circumstance that would have permitted Plaintiffs to wait almost
one year to conclude that a fraud had been perpetrated (and then wait another year
to file the case).   
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court sustains Bank of America’s demurrer to the eighth
cause of action.  The Court denies leave
to amend.  The Court declines to grant
leave to amend.  Plaintiffs are on the
third amended complaint, and the Court previously granted leave to amend to no
avail.  The Court is not persuaded that
Plaintiffs’ counsel could allege any facts to demonstrate that this claim is
timely or that equitable tolling should apply.
 
D.        Second Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring/Supervision
            Seventh
Cause of Action – Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair
Dealing
Tenth Cause of
Action – Negligence 
            
            A
bank has “a duty to act with reasonable care in its transactions with its
depositors,” but this duty “is an implied term in the contract between the bank
and its depositor.” (Kurtz-Ahlers, LLC v. Bank of America, N.A. (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 952, 956.) However, this is a narrow duty and encompasses the duty
to honor checks properly payable from the depositor’s account, the duty to
dishonor checks lacking required signatures, and the duty to render faithful
and accurate accounts under the contract of deposit. (Ibid.)  Moreover, a bank has a duty of inquiry “when
checks, not insignificant in amount, are drawn payable to the order of a bank
and are presented to the payee bank by a third party seeking to negotiate the
checks for his own benefit.” (Ibid., citing Sun ‘n Sand, Inc. v. United
California Bank (1978) 21 Cal.3d 671, 695.)  This may encompass transfers of the nature
alleged by Plaintiffs.  Therefore, the Court
has no tentative order on Bank of America’s demurrer to the second, seventh,
and tenth causes of action.    
 
E.         Ninth Cause of Action – Unfair Competition
 
            The
Court’s tentative order is to sustain the demurrer to the ninth cause of action
without leave to amend.  
 
 
 
 


 
Order
#3 of 3
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike by Wu Di
 
            Plaintiffs
Xiaoliang Liu and Chuwei Zhang (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Bank of America, East West Bank, and Wu Di (collectively, “Defendants”).  Previously, the Court sustained Wu Di’s
demurrer to the second amended complaint. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 31, 2023.)  The Court granted leave to amend with respect
to certain causes of action.  Now, Plaintiffs
assert the following causes of action against Wu Di:
 
            First
COA – Breach of Contract
            Second
COA – Negligent Hiring/Supervision
            Third
COA – Conversion
            Fourth
COA – Fraud 
            Fifth
COA – Negligent Misrepresentation
            Eleventh
COA – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            As
an initial matter, counsel for Wu Di argues that Plaintiffs are acting with
unclean hands because “Plaintiffs seek to enforce what appears to be an illegal
foreign currency exchange, or money laundering,” given China’s controls on
foreign exchange and transferring money to the United States.  Wu Di does not clearly raise this as a basis
for sustaining the demurrer, and the Court likely would not do so anyway, as
this requires consideration of the underlying facts.  The parties are free to raise this issue on a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication.
 
            Wu
Di demurs to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and eleventh causes of
action.  The Court has reviewed the
redline version of the third amended complaint. 
The Court incorporates by reference its order of July 31, 2023, and
rules as follows:
 
A.        Second Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring/Supervision 
            
Plaintiffs’
second cause of action is negligent hiring/supervision.  The elements are as follows: (1) Defendant
hired and supervised an employee; (2) The employee was incompetent or unfit;
(3) The employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of
the employment; and (4) Harm occurred. 
(See Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.1207, 1213-1214.)  Plaintiffs do not allege that Wu Di employed or
supervised anyone.  Therefore, the Court
sustains Wu Di’s demurrer to the second cause of action.  The Court declines to grant leave to amend.  Plaintiffs are on the third amended
complaint, and the Court previously granted leave to amend to no avail.
 
B.        Third Cause of Action – Conversion 
 
The Court has
no tentative order on Wu Di’s demurrer to the third cause of action.  
 
C.        Fourth Cause of Action – Fraud 
 
            The
Court has no tentative order on Wu Di’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
D.        Fifth Cause of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation 
 
            Plaintiffs allege that Wu Di negligently made
misrepresentations.  Plaintiffs’ third
amended complaint does not clearly allege that Wu Di made any representations
to Plaintiffs, let alone any representation “without any reasonable ground for
believing it to be true,” which is an element. 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action.    
 
E.         Eleventh Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Plaintiffs
assert a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty against Wu Di.  The third amended complaint does not clearly
allege that Wu Di owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs.  Yolanda Lu was their agent, not Wu Di, and
the mere fact that Wu Di worked for the agency is not sufficient.  (See Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 142; see
also Skopp v. Weaver (1976) 16 Cal.3d 432, 439.)  The third amended complaint does not allege any
direct relationship between Wu Di and Plaintiffs.  Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to
the eleventh cause of action.  The
Court declines to grant leave to amend. 
Plaintiffs are on the third amended complaint, and the Court previously
granted leave to amend to no avail.
 
F.         Motion to Strike 
 
            The
Court has no tentative order on Wu Di’s motion to strike.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
            
 