 Case Number:  22STCV10768    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HEALTHCARE
  MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATES, INC., et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
R.O.A.R.
  MANAGEMENT COMPANY, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV10768
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 1, 2024



 
Cross-Complainants Ari Resnik’s and R.O.A.R.
Management Company, Inc.’s motion for an order on the scope of the appellate
stay in light of the appeal of this Court’s denial of the special motion to
strike portions of the first amended cross-complaint is granted to the extent Cross-Complainants
are permitted to propound written discovery and depositions, subject to
appropriate objections, that do not implicate the “litigation-related
communications and actions” embraced in the appeal of the Anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
Cross-Complainants
Ari Resnik (“Resnik”) and R.O.A.R. Management Company, Inc. (“ROAR”) (collectively,
“Cross-Complainants”) move for an order on the scope of the appellate stay
imposed by C.C.P. §916 in light of the appeal of this Court’s denial of Cross-Defendants
Healthcare Management Associates, Inc.’s (“HMA”), Mary Aviles a.k.a. Mari
Aviles’ (“Mary”), Ismael Silva, Jr., M.D.’s (“Silva MD”), Ismael Geli Silva’s
(“Geli Silva”), James Aviles’ (“James”), Starbase, Inc.’s (“Starbase”),
American Financial Investment Services, Inc.’s (“AFS”), National
Intra-Operative Monitoring, Inc.’s (“NIOM”), and Orangewood Surgical Center,
LLC’s (“Orangewood”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) special motion to strike
(“Anti-SLAPP Motion”) portions of the first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”).  (Notice Motion, pg. 4.)  Specifically, Cross-Complainants request that
the stay be limited to those purported causes of action asserted in the FACC
that are directly targeted by Cross-Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion.  (Notice Motion, pg. 4.)  Cross-Complainants move on the following
grounds: (1) neither the parties’ nor the Court’s interests are served by the
current status quo without a judicial order delineating the limited scope of
the appellate stay; (2) California law requires that the appellate stay of an
anti-SLAPP order only be imposed on those causes of action embraced by the
appeal—and thus, every cause of action not embraced by the appeal remains
unstayed; (3) the Court retains subject matter jurisdiction over every claim
not directly embraced by the Anti-SLAPP Motion; and (4) defining the appellate
stay consistent with California law will permit discovery to proceed and best
serves the parties’ and the Court’s interests by facilitating a speedy
resolution of this matter.  (Notice
Motion, pg. 5.)  
 
Background
Plaintiff
HMA filed its operative complaint individually and derivatively on behalf of
Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC (“HFS”) (collectively, “Plaintiff”) on
March 29, 2022, against Defendants ROAR, Resnik, and 11 Funding LLC (“11
Funding”) (collectively, “Defendants”).
Cross-Complainants
filed their initial cross-complaint (“CC”) on May 15, 2022.  Cross-Complainants filed the operative FACC
on February 15, 2023, against Cross-Defendants alleging five causes of action:
(1) violation of Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 U.S.C.
§§1962(c), 1964(c)) [against all Cross-Defendants]; (2) conspiracy to
violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 U.S.C.
§§1962(d), 1964(c)) [against all Cross-Defendants]; (3) fraud [against
all Cross-Defendants]; (4) breach of fiduciary duty by ROAR in its
representative capacity [against Mary] ; and (5) breach of fiduciary
duty by ROAR in its representative capacity [against HMA]. 
On
June 1, 2023, this Court heard argument on Cross-Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP motion
and took the matter under submission.  On
June 5, 2023, this Court issued its ruling on the submitted matter, denying Cross-Defendants’
Anti-SLAPP Motion.  (6/5/24 Minute Order
(Ruling on Submitted Matter).)  On June
8, 2023, HFS, Mary, NIOM, and Orangewood filed their notice of appeal.  On June 23, 2023, Silva MD, Geli Silva,
James, Starbase, and AFIS (“Silva Cross-Defendants”) filed their notice of
appeal.
On July
10, 2023, this Court granted Cross-Complainants’ first motion for relief from
stay of discovery of matters not embraced by the Anti-SLAPP Motion appeal.  (7/10/23 Minute Order.)
On
February 28, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed the instant motion.  On April 18, 2024, HFS, Mary, NIOM, and
Orangewood filed their opposition.  On
April 18, 2024, Silva Cross-Defendants filed their opposition.  On April 24, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed
their reply.
 
Legal
Standard
“[A]n
appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed
from or upon matters embraced therein or affected thereby… but the trial court
may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order.”  (C.C.P. §
916(a).)  “The filing of an appeal . . .
divests the trial court of all jurisdiction in matters embraced in the judgment
or affected thereby.”  (Olson v.
Superior Court (1969) 274 Cal.App.2d 311, 314.)
“The
purpose of the automatic stay under section 916 is to preserve ‘the status quo
until the appeal is decided.’”  (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 198.)
In Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino, the California Supreme Court identified
factors to assist courts in determining whether a matter is embraced or
affected by an appeal:
(1)    whether the post-order proceedings on the
matter would have any effect on the “effectiveness” of the appeal,
(2)    whether the post-order proceedings directly
or indirectly seek to enforce, vacate, or modify the appealed order,
(3)    whether the post-order proceeding
substantially interferes with the appellate court’s ability to conduct the
appeal, and
(4)    whether the possible outcomes on appeal are
irreconcilable with the actual or possible results of the post-order
proceedings.
 
(Id.
at pgs. 189-190.)
 
Discussion
In
cases involving “mixed cause[s] of action” that combine “allegations of
activity protected by the statute with allegations of unprotected activity[,]”
courts must look within each cause of action to determine what “particular
alleged acts giv[e] rise to a claim for relief,” and only strike those claims
that lack merit.  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016)
1 Cal.5th 376, 381, 395.)  In creating
this rule, the California Supreme Court in Baral v. Schnitt expressly
overruled Mann v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc., which held that an anti-SLAPP
motion must defeat an entire cause of action, as opposed to the claims made
within a cause of action.  (Id. at
pg. 386, citing Mann v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc. (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 90, 15; id. at pg. 396.)
The
California Supreme Court further elaborated in Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
Systems,
Analysis of an anti-SLAPP
motion is not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as
pleaded by the plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead,
courts should analyze each claim for relief—each act or set of acts
supplying a basis for relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded
cause of action—to determine whether the claim they give rise to has the
requisite degree of merit to survive the motion.
 
(Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health Systems (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010, citing Baral,
1 Cal.5th at pgs. 393-395, emphasis added.) 

Accordingly,
the same logic extends to the appellate stay imposed by C.C.P. §916, in that
“an [anti-SLAPP] appeal does not . . . stay proceedings related to causes of
action not affected by the motion.”  (Nirschl
v. Schiller (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 386, 410, internal quotations
omitted.)  The claim-by-claim analysis
for an anti-SLAPP motion applies even when the defendant moves to strike an
entire enumerated cause of action.  (Id.
at pg. 1011.)
Here,
“each act or set of acts supplying a basis for relief” under the anti-SLAPP
statute can be summarized by the language used by Cross-Defendants themselves
in their Anti-SLAPP Motion: “litigation-related communications and actions”—and
nothing else.  (Bonni, 11 Cal.5th
at pg. 1010.)
Applying
the Varian factors, (1) if this Court were to rule on any discovery
motion with respect to the unstayed parts of the Cross-Complaint, those rulings
would not touch the “effectiveness” of the appeal because a successful
Anti-SLAPP Appeal would only narrow the scope of the lawsuit and (at best)
limit discovery on the targeted portions of the Cross- Complaint (see Varian,
35 Cal.4th at pgs. 189-190); (2) any discovery or discovery motions on the unstayed
parts of the Cross-Complaint would not seek to enforce, vacate, or modify the
Court’s ruling on the Anti-SLAPP Motion (id.); and (3, 4) this discovery
would not interfere with the appellate court’s ability to assess the Court’s
ruling on the Anti-SLAPP Motion, nor would it be irreconcilable with any
possible results of the post-order proceedings (id.).
Accordingly,
the appellate stay is limited in that Cross-Complainants are permitted to propound
written discovery and depositions, subject to appropriate objections, that does
not implicate the “litigation-related communications and actions” embraced in
the appeal of the Anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
Conclusion
Cross-Complainants’
motion for an order on the scope of the appellate stay in light of the appeal
of this Court’s denial of the special motion to strike portions of the first
amended cross-complaint is granted to the extent Cross-Complainants are
permitted to propound written discovery and depositions, subject to appropriate
objections, that do not implicate the “litigation-related communications and
actions” embraced in the appeal of the Anti-SLAPP motion. 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  