 Case Number:  23TRCV01625    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
TANJANAE
  VAUGHN,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01625




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOHN
  DOE 1, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 2,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Jacob Brown, for
plaintiff Tanjanae Vaughn
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The court orders that the attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Tanjanae Vaughn, effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the
client. 
BACKGROUND
On May 23, 2023, plaintiff Tanjanae
Vaughn filed a complaint against defendants John Doe 1 and John Doe 2 for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence based on an incident on June 1, 2021
at Juniper St. and La Brea Ave., in Inglewood.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff’s attorney Jacob Brown,
Esq. seeks to be relieved as counsel of plaintiff. 
            Counsel states in his declaration
that “there has been an irremediable breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship that stands in the way of effective representations.”  
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Tanjanae
Vaughn, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council
form MC-053) upon the client. 
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 