 Case Number:  21STCV26015    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LATASHA
  BEARD, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV26015




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BREITBURN
  OPERATING LC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 2,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant WG Holdings SPV LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Latasha Beard, et al.
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
On July 14, 2021, plaintiffs
Latasha Beard, Cheyanne Smith, and Marissa Smith filed a complaint against (1) Breitburn
Operating LC, (2) Maverick Natural Resources, (3) Breitburn Energy LP, and (4) Marmac
Resources Company for (1) negligence, (2) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, (3) civil nuisance, and (4) trespass to land based on harm caused
from an adjacent oil field.
On April 11, 2022, plaintiffs filed
a request for dismissal as to defendants Breitburn Energy LP and Marmac
Resources Company.
On August 22, 22, plaintiffs filed
an amendment designating WG Holdings SPV, LLC as Doe 1.
On September 14, 2023, the court
denied Breitburn and Maverick’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
first, second, third, and fourth causes of action.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §438 states, in relevant
part:  “(b)(1) A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) 
The motion provided for in this section may only be made on one of the
following grounds:  (A) If the moving
party is a plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute
a cause or cause of action against the defendant and the answer does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.  (B) If the moving party is a defendant, that
either of the following conditions exist: 
. . . . (ii) The complaint does not states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. . . . (d) The grounds for
motion provided for in this section shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice. . . .”   
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
WG Holdings (Doe 1) requests judgment on the pleadings on the ground that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action against it and are
uncertain.
            In
the complaint, plaintiffs allege that they reside at 15519 Deblynn Avenue,
Gardena. Plaintiff Beard purchased the premises with her then husband in
2001.  Complaint, ¶1.  The property is located immediately adjacent
to some active oil wells and an oil production facility located at 15513
Deblynn Avenue.  Id., ¶3.  A pipe containing oil, toxic chemicals, and
other petroleum products, and owned and operated by all the defendants runs
through the property.  Id., ¶15.  Over time, these chemicals have migrated into
the surrounding neighborhoods where it has been inhaled, ingested, or otherwise
contacted by plaintiffs and others in the community.  Id., ¶17.
As to the
respective defendants, plaintiffs allege that defendants, including Does
1-1000, are oil and gas companies in the business of locating, drilling,
producing, and refining petroleum and natural gas.  Id., ¶5. 
They were at all times relevant the owners, managers, lessors, leases,
operators, drillers or was otherwise legally in possession of the oil field or
otherwise operating the oil field.  Id., ¶6.  Defendant Breitburn Operating LC was or is
the owner, lessor, lease, operator or was otherwise legally in possession of
the premises or operating the oil field. 
Id., ¶7.  Breitburn Energy [which
has since been dismissed] filed for bankruptcy and defendant Maverick obtained
all the assets and assumed the liabilities of Breitburn Energy including the
oil field.  Defendant Maverick is a
successor in interest to Breitburn Energy. 
Id., ¶8.  Defendants are all the
alter egos of each other.  Id., ¶10.  Defendants was the agent, joint venturer,
alter ego, or employee of each of the remaining defendants.  Id., ¶11. 
Does 1 through 100 are tortiously responsible in some manner for the
damages alleged in that said damages were proximately caused by such
defendants.  Plaintiffs will amend this
complaint to show the true names of Does 1 through 100 when such are
ascertained.  Id., ¶13.  Defendants and Does 1 through 100 are
responsible, negligently, intentionally and/or in some actionable manner,
including as corporate successor liable for the acts of its predecessor, for
the events and happenings referred to herein, and caused and continue to cause
injuries and damages legally to plaintiffs. 
Id., ¶14.
 
            WG
Holdings was identified as Doe 1 in an amendment in August 2022.
            Defendant
contends that the complaint is devoid of any substantive allegations directed
against it because it was named as a Doe, and that the complaint does not
contain a single mention of WG Holdings. 
Defendant asserts that to the extent that plaintiffs attempt to allege
that WG Holdings may be liable under a theory of successor liability, the
allegations are insufficient.  Defendant also
argues that the complaint is uncertain because it “lumps together four distinct
entities.”
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient and are not
uncertain.  Plaintiffs assert that in
August 2022, after learning that WG Holdings purchased Breitburn Operating LC,
it amended the complaint.  Plaintiffs also
assert that during the meet and confer, plaintiffs’ counsel had requested a
copy of the WG Holdings Purchase and Sale Agreement to ascertain whether WG
Holdings assumed successor liability,” and that once the agreement was obtained,
plaintiffs’ counsel “had not had the time to proficiently review the documents”
but that if defendant provides a declaration as to the authenticity of the
document and if the agreement indicates that WG Holdings is not subject to
successor liability, “plaintiffs will dismiss that cause of action against WG.”
            In
reply, defendant reiterates its arguments.
            The
court rules as follows:  
            Plaintiff’s
exceedingly broad allegations against “Does” is uncertain.  It is essentially a Stew of miscellaneous unfocused
conclusory allegations.  Any defendant
brought into this case with such broad conclusory allegations would not be
given proper notice of that claimed basis for joining the Doe defendant.  Plaintiffs allege that Doe 1, included with
Does 1-100, are responsible in some manner; that it proximately caused
plaintiffs’ damages; and that each defendant was acting as agent for the
others.  See paras. 13-14.
            The
allegations also refer to corporate successor liability.  Both parties appear to acknowledge that
defendant was named a defendant as successor to defendant Breitburn Operating
LC.  But the allegations of the Complaint
are much, much broader.  And,
importantly, even limited to “successor liability” as the basis for naming WG
Holdings as a defendant, the pleading is not sufficient to state a claim on
that basis.
“’The
general rule of successor nonliability provides that where a corporation purchases,
or otherwise acquires by transfer, the assets of another corporation, the
acquiring corporation does not assume the selling corporation’s debts and
liabilities.’”  Daniell v. Riverside
Partners I, L.P. (2012) 206 Cal. App. 4th 1292, 1300 (citation
omitted).  There are four exceptions that
can give rise to successor liability: 
“When ‘(1) there is an express or implied agreement of assumption, (2)
the transaction amounts to a consolidation or merger of the two corporations,
(3) the purchasing corporation is a mere continuation of the seller, or (4) the
transfer of assets to the purchaser is for the fraudulent purpose of escaping
liability for the seller’s debts.’”  Id.
at 1300-1301 (citing Ray v. Alad Corp. (1977) 19 Cal. 3d 22, 28).
The court
finds that the allegations are insufficient as to successor liability as
plaintiff does not plead any of the exceptions. 

Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.

ORDER
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the complaint is GRANTED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Moving
defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.