  Case Number:  20TRCV00279    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  B Ruby Ocampo v. Sunshine Home Care 1 LLCCase No 20TRCV00279Plaintiff’s Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement Pursuant to C.C.P. § 664.6 In April 2019 Plaintiff Ruby Ocampo (“Ocampo”) filed a workers compensation claim against Defendant Sunshine Home Care 1 LLC (“Sunshine”).  In March 2020 she filed this civil action against Sunshine.  The parties successfully conducted a mediation on May 6, 2021.  The mediation resolved both matters and the parties executed the “Confidential Settlement Agreement and Release” (“Settlement Agreement”) on May 26, 2021.  (Ocampo Decl. Exh. A.)  It is that agreement which Plaintiff now seeks to enforce pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6.Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6 provides:“(a) If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”“In ruling on a motion to enter judgment the trial court acts as the trier of fact, determining whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.  (Kohn v. Jaymar–Ruby, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d 780.)  Trial judges may consider oral testimony or may determine the motion upon declarations alone.  (Fiore v. Alvord (1985) 182 Cal.App.3d 561, 563, 221 Cal.Rptr. 400.)”  Terry v. Conlan (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1445, 1454. The Settlement AgreementThe Settlement Agreement contains provisions setting forth the amount that shall be paid by Sunshine to Ocampo, the timing for the payments, and certain actions that shall be taken by Ocampo to dismiss both the civil action and the workers compensation action, as well as other obligations of the parties.“2.a.  Settlement Amount … Defendant Sunshine Home Care 1 LLC agree to pay Plaintiff the sum of forty thousand dollars ($40,000) (the “Settlement Sum”) in full satisfaction and release of all claims in the Action.  Said sum shall be paid as follows: Ten thousand dollars (“$10,000”), within seven days of receipt by Defendants’ counsel of this agreement signed by Plaintiff.  The remaining thirty thousand dollars $30,000 of the Settlement Amount must be paid within nine (9) months of the date defendant pays the initial payment, in the form of three payments of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) every three months, due every 90 days from the date of the initial payment and each subsequent payment until the last payment is received.” * * *7.  Dismissal of Action: The plaintiff agrees to dismiss [the civil suit] with prejudice within ten (10) days of executing this agreement.8.  Resolution of Workers Compensation Action: This agreement is contingent upon Plaintiff filing the dismissal of her pending Workers compensation [case] for the Settlement Amount.”  (Settlement Agreement ¶¶s 2, 7, 8.)The Settlement Agreement also included a provision that each party would bear its own costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees.“13.  Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.  The parties agree to each pay their own respective costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred or to be incurred in connection with the Action or the subject matter hereof.  However, should an Event of Default occur, the prevailing party shall be entitled to all attorneys’ fees and costs (including but not limited to all filing and appearance fees), they incur in providing the notices required by this Agreement and Stipulation, drafting the complaint, filing the complaint and this Stipulation, in seeking entry of judgment pursuant to this Stipulation, and that are otherwise incurred in enforcing its rights under the Settlement Agreement and this Stipulation.  Such attorneys’ fees and costs shall be included in the amount of the judgment to be entered pursuant to this Stipulation.”  (Settlement Agreement ¶ 13.)The Settlement Agreement contains an integration clause.  (Settlement Agreement ¶ 14.)  Further, the parties expressly agreed that this Court should “retain jurisdiction under Calif. Code of Civ. Pro. § 664.6 until the time payments under the terms of this settlement agreement are completed and a dismissal is filed.”  (Settlement Agreement ¶ 25.) Plaintiff Has Been Paid Only the Initial $10,000 PaymentDefendant Sunshine paid Plaintiff the initial $10,000 payment.  However, no further payments toward the $40,000 settlement were ever made.  Therefore, Plaintiff is requesting that this Court enter judgment against Sunshine pursuant to the Settlement Agreement in the amount of $30,000, plus attorney’s fees in the amount of $2,025 and costs in the amount of $60.  This totals $32,085.Defendant argues that because of Plaintiff’s failure to dismiss this civil action and the untimely dismissal of the worker’s compensation case, the Court should not enforce the Settlement Agreement.  (It is unclear what Defendant contends should happen if the Court refuses to enforce the Settlement Agreement.  It appears that Defendant believes that Defendant should simply be relieved of its obligation to pay the remaining $30,000.) The Complication of Obtaining the Dismissal of the Workers Compensation Case – The Unpaid QME InvoiceUnfortunately, complications arose with respect to the timely performance of the Settlement Agreement obligation to dismiss the two proceedings.  Plaintiff did not file a dismissal of the civil action within 10 days as called for under Settlement Agreement ¶ 7.[1]  This is virtually immaterial since the parties agreed that the Court would retain jurisdiction to enforce the Settlement Agreement and this Court can enforce the Settlement Agreement and dismiss this action.  Further, Defendant has not articulated any adverse impact suffered by Defendant arising from the delay in dismissing this civil action.“Whether or not a stipulated judgment encompassing a monetary settlement calls for a dismissal, the effect is the same: a payment of money to the plaintiff, followed by a termination of the action.  The entry of a judgment pursuant to section 664.6 enables parties to enforce a settlement agreement without having to file a separate lawsuit.  (Viejo Bancorp, Inc. v. Wood (1989) 217 Cal.App.3d 200, 208, 265 Cal.Rptr. 620.)  This is true whether the judgment calls for a dismissal or not; the only difference is that where a stipulated judgment includes a dismissal, the parties must ask the trial court to retain jurisdiction before the dismissal deprives the court of that jurisdiction.  (Wackeen v. Malis (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 429, 439–440, 118 Cal.Rptr.2d 502.)Where, as here, the parties stipulate before the court that the plaintiff has been paid a sum of money in exchange for a dismissal of an action, the plaintiff is as legally entitled to receive money from the defendant as a plaintiff who obtains a stipulated judgment without a dismissal.”  DeSaulles v. Community Hospital of Monterey Peninsula (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1140, 1155–1156. More importantly, there was a significant delay in obtaining the dismissal of the workers compensation case as required by Settlement Agreement ¶ 8.  Unlike the language relating to the dismissal of the civil action, the Settlement Agreement did not state when the workers compensation case was to be dismissed.  The dismissal of the workers compensation case was a “contingency” of the Settlement Agreement.  And unlike the civil action, this court does not have the power to enter the dismissal of the workers compensation case.Plaintiff executed the request to dismiss the workers compensation case on May 26, 2021.  Her counsel submitted it to the Board shortly thereafter.  However, dismissal was denied by the workers compensation judge by order dated August 12, 2021.  The judge required that the settlement be reviewed by the Judge.  (The Order recites that “A Worker’s Compensation claim can only be resolved when the settlement is reviewed by a Worker’s Compensation Administrative Law Judge; determined adequate and approved by that judge.”  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. I.))A major complication arose from the fact that Defendant Sunshine had failed to compensate Dr. Benjamin Simon, M.D. for the Qualified Medical Examination that he had performed in the workers compensation case on October 1, 2020, at Defendant Sunshine’s request.  (Plaintiff details the problems that this failure of Defendant to timely pay the $2,125 QME bill caused in obtaining a dismissal of the workers compensation case.  Defendant largely ignores this issue as the cause of much of the two-year delay in obtaining the dismissal of the workers compensation case.  This unpaid QME bill is, however, at the heart of this dispute.)Plaintiff notes that the QME was a cost incurred by Sunshine in its prosecution of the workers compensation case.  The Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board issued its November 18, 2021 Order to Defendant Sunshine to provide an explanation for the non-payment of Dr. Simon.  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. C.)Ultimately the Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board ordered Sunshine to pay Dr. Simon and his attorney a total of $6,200 on September 26, 2023.  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. F.)Defendant does not dispute that it requested the QME and that it was the party obligated to pay Dr. Simon.  Instead, it claims that the Settlement Agreement shifted this obligation to Plaintiff.Defendant ignores the mandate of Labor Code § 4622 which imposed on Sunshine the obligation to pay for the QME in a timely manner.  The payment was due from Sunshine to Dr. Simon months prior to the May 2021 settlement.  And the unpaid invoice for the QME was known to Sunshine (but not disclosed to Ocampo) during the May 2021 mediation.  Labor Code § 4622 provides that Sunshine was to have paid the invoice within 60 days after receipt.  The QME invoice was issued November 11, 2020.  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. B.)  Therefore, Sunshine was obligated to pay Dr. Simon by about January 11, 2021.  But Sunshine made no payment whatsoever to Dr. Simon.  The QME invoice was not paid by Sunshine until late 2023.  This failure of Sunshine to pay the QME invoice led to the inability of Plaintiff to dismiss the workers compensation case, as payment to Dr. Simon was necessary prior to dismissal.On October 29, 2021, Dr. Simon filed a petition for an order of payment by Sunshine with the Workers Compensation Appeals Board.  Finally, on September 23, 2023, more than 2 years after the Settlement Agreement had been executed, Defendant Sunshine agreed to pay the QME invoice and attorney’s fees, with added costs.  The cost of the QME ballooned from $2,125 to $6,200 with all the additional charges associated with the prosecution of the collection effort by Dr. Simon.  On October 27, 2023, Sunshine finally issued its 2 checks to pay Dr. Simon and his attorney.  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. G.)While much time and effort are spent by both parties detailing the extensive delay associated with the workers compensation dismissal, that discussion is of marginal relevance in resolving the issue before this Court.  That is because once the issue of paying Dr. Simon was resolved, and payment was made in late October 2023, the workers compensation case could finally be dismissed.  On November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed another request for the dismissal of the workers compensation case.  An Order granting the dismissal was entered on December 12, 2023.  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. H.)  Plaintiff sent a copy to Sunshine’s attorney that same date.  (Gulaya Decl. Exh. H.)Hence, since mid-December 2023, Plaintiff has been in compliance with her obligation to dismiss the workers compensation case.While this civil action has not yet been dismissed, that is essentially irrelevant as that dismissal can and shall be ordered by this Court at this time.  This does not impede the ability of this Court to enforce the Settlement Agreement as the parties expressly provided in the Settlement Agreement that the Court shall retain jurisdiction under C.C.P. § 664.6 to enforce the Settlement Agreement. The Issue of Which Party Must Bear the Cost of the Dr. Simon’s QME and Added ChargesA meaningful issue underlying the present dispute is the question of who must bear the cost of the Sunshine requested Qualified Medical Exam performed by Dr. Simon.  Plaintiff notes that it was the obligation of Sunshine to pay that charge.  Defendant does not dispute that in the ordinary course it was the obligation of Sunshine to pay Dr. Simon.  But Defendant suggests that the May 2021 Settlement Agreement (negotiated about 4 months after Dr. Simon should have been paid) changed that obligation.  However, Defendant does not point to any language in the Settlement Agreement that shifted the cost of the QME to Plaintiff Ocampo.The Court disagrees with Defendant’s position that Plaintiff must bear that cost.  Nothing in the Settlement Agreement supports the claim by Defendant that the Settlement Agreement shifted Sunshine’s liability for the QME charges in the workers compensation case to Plaintiff Ocampo.First, the charge was billed to Sunshine as it had incurred the obligation.  It was billed prior to the settlement.  It was supposed to have been paid by Sunshine months prior to the May 2021 settlement.  Sunshine knew (or should have known) that it had been billed and it had not paid the QME invoice.  Plaintiff did not know that there was an outstanding QME invoice unpaid by Sunshine.Second, as noted by Sunshine in its Opposition (pg. 1:14-18) the Settlement Agreement provided that “the Parties agreed to each pay their own respective costs and expenses, including attorneys fees, incurred or to be incurred in connection with the Action or the subject matter hereof.”  The QME was a cost incurred by Sunshine in the workers compensation case.  The term “Action” is not defined in the Settlement Agreement, although both the civil action and the workers compensation case were settled by the Settlement Agreement and are hence within the “subject matter” of the Settlement Agreement.Third, while Defendant puts forth the argument that Ocampo agreed to pay any “medical liens”, there is no such language in the Settlement Agreement.  The Settlement Agreement includes an integration clause attesting to the fact that the written Settlement Agreement contains all of the parties’ agreement.  (Settlement Agreement ¶ 14.)  The May 26, 2021 request to dismiss the workers compensation case that purportedly acknowledges an obligation to pay medical liens does not change the Settlement Agreement.  And it was written by an attorney who had not obtained a copy of the Settlement Agreement and therefore did not know what, if anything, it provided regarding medical liens.  In short, Plaintiff was not obligated to pay “medical liens.”Even if there were such an agreement to assume the obligation to pay all medical liens, the QME is not the type of medical charge that is included as a “medical lien.”  A medical lien is reasonably understood to be the liens of medical providers who had provided treatment to Plaintiff for her underlying injury.  It would not be understood to include medical examination costs that arose by the Defendant’s requested litigation QME.  Unlike a medical lien arising from the provision of treatment to the Plaintiff for which Plaintiff is obligated to make payment, a QME is a materially different obligation.  It is a cost of litigation much like consultants and attorney’s fees that the party incurs.  Plaintiff incurred no obligation to pay any portion of the QME.  It was a charge incurred by Defendant for the benefit of Defendant.Therefore, the obligation to pay Dr. Simon was and is the obligation of Sunshine, and nothing in the Settlement Agreement transferred that obligation to Plaintiff Ocampo.  Sunshine’s failure to pay Dr. Simon delayed the ability of Plaintiff to obtain a dismissal of the workers compensation case.Defendant suggests that since Plaintiff gave Defendant a release “absolving the Defendant of future responsibilities such as medical expenses or attorneys fees already incurred in the workers compensation case,…” (Opposition pg. 2:13-15) Sunshine need not pay Dr. Simon.  That argument makes no sense.  Nothing in the Settlement Agreement could eliminate the already existing obligation that Sunshine had to Dr. Simon to pay his invoice.  The release no more absolved Sunshine of the obligation to pay Dr. Simon than it absolved Sunshine of its obligation to pay its own attorneys.  Sunshine incurred those expenses.  It agreed to bear its own expenses. The Settlement Agreement is Enforceable Under C.C.P. § 664.6Defendant makes various arguments regarding the enforceability of the Settlement Agreement.  None of them merit discussion.  Plaintiff dismissed the workers compensation case.  The Court is now dismissing the civil action.  Both parties shall (belatedly) obtain the result that they bargained for in the Settlement Agreement.  Sunshine shall have both actions dismissed.  Plaintiff is entitled to be paid the remaining $30,000 on the settlement.While Defendant suggests that there is something inequitable in this outcome, it provides no explanation of what it is that is inequitable.  It has held $30,000 that it had agreed to pay more than two years ago.  No interest is sought by Plaintiff on that delayed payment.  Indeed, it appears that Sunshine believes that the delay should absolve it of the obligation to pay the remaining $30,000 settlement amount.No doubt, Sunshine and Ocampo have incurred additional attorneys fees.  Those have been the byproduct of Sunshine’s failure to pay Dr. Simon and the impact that that refusal to pay had on all the other proceedings. The parties entered into a relatively straight-forward settlement agreement.  The Court shall enforce it and provide both parties the material benefits that they agreed to in the Settlement Agreement.Plaintiff is entitled to be paid the remaining unpaid balance of $30,000 forthwith, plus attorneys fees and costs of $2,085.  She is entitled to judgment to enforce the agreement.  The settlement amount was to have been paid in full by mid-2022.  While payment has been significantly delayed, no interest is sought.Defendant has obtained the dismissal of the workers compensation case which was dismissed in mid-December 2023.The Court shall order this civil action be dismissed with prejudice at the hearing of this motion, with the Court retaining jurisdiction to see that the Settlement Agreement is performed.In order to afford Defendant an opportunity to avoid the entry of judgment against it (which was an implicit attribute of the Settlement Agreement had it been timely performed by everyone, as dismissal was to take place within 10 days), the Court shall delay entry of judgment enforcing the Settlement Agreement for a period of 15 days from the date of the hearing of this matter.  That shall allow Defendant an opportunity to pay in full all amounts this Court is now awarding to Plaintiff.  In the event that payment in full of all amounts awarded in this Order is made to Plaintiff, the Court shall not enter judgment in this case.The parties shall notify the Court immediately once payment is made to Plaintiff.In the event that payment is not made within the time period provided in this Order, Plaintiff may apply ex parte with notice to Defendant for entry of the judgment consistent with this Order.ORDER1.  Plaintiff shall be awarded judgment in the amount of $30,000 pursuant to Settlement Agreement ¶ 2.a.  Entry of judgment shall be delayed as set forth herein.2.  Plaintiff is awarded attorney’s fees which Plaintiff incurred to enforce the Settlement Agreement pursuant to Settlement Agreement ¶ 13, in the amount of $2,025, and costs of $60, which amounts shall be part of the judgment.3.  Payment of $32,085 by Sunshine to Plaintiff shall be made within 15 days of the date of hearing of this Motion.4.  If payment of $32,085 is not made within 15 days of the date of the hearing of this Motion, the Court shall enter judgment for Plaintiff against Defendant Sunshine for the amount of $32,085.