 Case Number:  23TRCV03324    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing Date:                         April 2, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Defendant Vasile Properties Airport Plaza, LLCResponding Party:                  Plaintiff Dr. Jamshid Shariati(1)  Demurrer(2)  Motion to Strike             The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. RULING            The demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  The motion to strike is DENIED and is MOOT.BACKGROUNDOn October 9, 2023, plaintiff Dr. Jamshid Shariati filed a complaint against Vasile Properties Airport Plaza, LLC and Charles W. Vasile, M.D. for (1) breach of lease, (2) conversion, and (3) fraud.  LEGAL AUTHORITYDemurrerWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.Strike“The court may, upon a motion . . ., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  (b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following:  (1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.DISCUSSIONDemurrerDefendant Vasile Properties Airport Plaza, LLC demurs to the first, second, and third causes of action in the complaint on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.The complaint alleges that on April 1, 2022, plaintiff leased commercial property at 1117 West Manchester Blvd., Suites K, L, M, N, and O, in Inglewood from defendants.  Complaint, ¶1.  Plaintiff operates an urgent care clinic in a portion of the leased space.  The remaining portion of the lease space was used as a medica-surgery center, until it became unusable as a consequence of water damage and ceiling collapse.  Id., ¶3.  The parties entered into a five year lease.  Id., ¶4.  Plaintiff signed the lease for himself and his medical practice offices and increased the security deposit to $43,550 and took possession of the property.  Id., ¶5.  On April 1, 2022, the parties entered into a New Lease Modifications Agreement.  Id., ¶6.  The Modification amended the lease to address “Future Repairs” to the common areas and resolved outstanding issues between the parties from their prior leases.  Id., ¶7.  The complaint further alleges that under the terms of the lease, plaintiff agreed to pay a minimum monthly rent for the first twelve months of $21,775 with additional monthly rents increasing.  Rent includes tenant’s percentage of common area maintenance and operating expenses for the Center.  Id., ¶8.  “Common Area Expenses” means all costs, and expenses incurred by Landlord, in operating, managing, policing, insuring, servicing, repairing, maintaining and replacing the (a) Common Area; (b) the exterior surface of exterior walls, roofs, foundations and other structural portions of the Building(s) from time to time constituting the Center, as well as the basic plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, sprinkler and electrical system within the corte of such Building(s).  Id., ¶9.  The Lease states:  “Landlord shall have no duty to repair, maintain, replace, improve, remodel, or alter the Premises; provided, however, that Landlord shall only be responsible to repair and maintain the physical structure components, common area and roof of the building(s) owned by the landlord.  Id., ¶10. “The manner in which the Common Area shall be maintained shall be solely determined by Landlord.”  Defendants have not maintained the Common Area, despite collecting money for it and as a consequence, plaintiff has been damaged.  Id., ¶11.The complaint also alleges that under the terms of the Modification, Landlord modified the Lease and agreed to “Future Repairs” as a result of any leaks from the roof that emanate to the inside of the leased space and to the HVAC/Heating units.  Despite these promises, and plaintiff complying with all notice requirements under the terms of the lease and Modification, defendants have not done the repairs and plaintiff is damaged.  Id., ¶12.First cause of action for breach of contract“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’”  Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal. App. 4th 1171, 1178 (citation omitted).The complaint alleges that defendants demanded, accepted and retained Rents; however, defendants failed to perform the repairs to the Common Areas of the Building(s) in direct violation of the Modification and Lease.  Because defendants demanded, accepted and retained Rents without using funds to make the needed and necessary repairs to the Common Areas, plaintiff was harmed.  A large portion of the building became and remains unusable for the intended purposes. Leaks from the roof were not repaired, plumbing was not maintained, the Emergency Exit door to the surgery area was locked, and plaintiff suffered significant water damage throughout the rented space.  Plaintiff lost personal property, income and has been harmed.  Complaint, ¶15.Defendant argues that plaintiff fails to allege performance with the terms of the Modification.  Defendant also cites to certain provisions of the Modification that purportedly requires plaintiff to take certain steps if he deems repairs necessary to the roof or air conditioning unit, and that plaintiff has not alleged that he did so.  Defendant further argues that plaintiff does not allege breach because the Modification provides for alternative remedy, involving plaintiff submitting proof of payment and request for rental credit.  Defendant notes that the copy of the “Modification” attached as Exh. 2 has been redacted or is otherwise missing pages and is not a correct copy.In opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient.The court finds that the allegations are insufficient to meet the elements.  Plaintiff does not allege facts of plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance or of a breach.  The demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Second cause of action for conversion“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.”  Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.The complaint alleges that plaintiff paid monies to defendants and defendants accepted the monies but did not use them in accord with lease or Modification.  Complaint, ¶19.Defendant argues that plaintiff does not allege that defendants personally took plaintiff’s property rights by any wrongful act or interfered with plaintiff’s property rights. In opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient.The court finds that the allegations are insufficient.  Plaintiff has not alleged facts to establish that he has ownership rights to the money that he paid to Landlord, pursuant to the lease and modification.  Further, conversion does not apply to real property, and plaintiff alleges damage to his real property.The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Third cause of action for fraudThe elements of fraud are:  “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or 'scienter'); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal. App. 4th 170, 184.  In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity.  Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.  “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.The complaint alleges that defendants falsely and fraudulently executed the lease and modification, promising the repairs and maintenance of the Common Areas.  Defendants represented that they would do certain work and maintain the property and took money from plaintiff in consideration of those promises.  Despite this, defendants did not do the work and did not maintain the property and defendants never had any intention of doing the work or maintaining the property pursuant to the terms of the lease and modification.  Complaint, ¶22.Defendant argues that the allegations are insufficient, conclusory, and are not pled with the required particularity, including that the copies of the lease and modification attached to the complaint are incomplete.  Defendant further contends that plaintiff has not alleged an actual misrepresentation upon which plaintiff relied, including during negotiations of the modification.The court finds that the allegations are insufficient.  They are conclusory and plaintiff fails to plead with specificity.  Plaintiff also does not allege a misrepresentation.  Moreover, actionable misrepresentations must pertain to past or existing material facts.  Although not raised by defendants, the court notes that this cause of action may be barred by economic loss rule.  To plead around the economic loss rule, a party must plead the existence of a duty that arises independent of any contractual duty and independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises from the breach of that duty.”  Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 979, 988-001.  Plaintiff has not alleged an independent duty that arises from other than the lease and modification. The demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Motion to StrikeThe court denies the motion to strike as being procedurally improper as it was combined with the demurrer rather than filed separately.  In any event it is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer. ORDERThe demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action in the complaint are SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  The motion to strike is DENIED and deemed MOOT in light of the ruling on the demurrer.Moving defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling. 