 Case Number:  22TRCV01362    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  B Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Dante HigginsResponding Party:                  Defendant Explorify Motorcycle Rentals LLCMotion to Quash or Limit Subpoena of Prior Employment Records             The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULING            The motion is GRANTED as to modifying the subpoenas to California DMV and LA Care as stated below.BACKGROUND            On November 30, 2022, plaintiff Dante Higgins filed a complaint against Explorify Motorcycle Rentals, LLC for Labor Code violations and wrongful termination in violation of public policy.LEGAL AUTHORITYCCP § 1987.1(a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”CCP § 1985.3(b) states that, prior to the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum for the production of personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be served on the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum, of the affidavit supporting the issuance of the subpoena, if any, and of the notice described in subdivision (e) (notice to consumer), and proof of service as indicated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).“[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.”  Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 575, 582-83.  Either the nonparty witness who has been subpoenaed or any party to the action may challenge the deposition subpoena.   Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:597.  A deposition subpoena may be quashed for:  (1) defects in form or content of the subpoena (e.g., inadequate description of requested records); (2) defects in service of the subpoena (e.g., failure to satisfy the requirements of providing notice to consumer; (3) requesting production of records not within the permissible scope of discovery; and (4) being unjustly burdensome or oppressive.  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:598.DISCUSSION            Plaintiff requests that the court quash the deposition subpoenas for production of business records to (1) California Department of Motor Vehicles and (2) L.A. Care Health Plan, which were issued on December 4, 2023.              The complaint alleges that plaintiff was employed by defendant on April 8, 2022 as a general manager.  Complaint, ¶6.  Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt employee during his employment with defendant.  Id., ¶7.  On May 30, 2022, plaintiff informed defendant via text message that he was sick and tested positive for COVID-19 and that his doctor instructed him not to return to work and remain in quarantine for ten days.  Id., ¶9.  On June 8, 2022, the same day plaintiff returned back to work following his sick leave, his direct supervisor and the co-owner and/or manager of defendant called him into his office and terminated plaintiff’s employment.  Id., ¶10.  Defendant terminated plaintiff’s employment in retaliation for him disclosing a positive COVID-19 test and for being ordered to quarantine and isolate pursuant to Labor Code §6409.6.  Id., ¶11.  During plaintiff’s employment, defendant engaged in a system of willful violations of the Labor Code, including failing to pay plaintiff all wages earned, failing to keep and provide accurate and timely records of wages earned and other mandated records, failing to pay overtime wages, and failing to reimburse for necessary business expenses.  Id., ¶12.Employees have a constitutional right to privacy in their employment records.  Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal. App. 4th 1412, 1426-1427.  The party seeking disclosure must show a particularized need for the confidential information sought.  The information must be directly relevant to a party’s cause of action and essential to determining the truth of the matters in dispute.  Discovery will not be ordered if the information sought is available from other sources or through less intrusive means.  Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859-861.  Tax returns and related tax documents are privileged.  Hood v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 446, 449.            The subpoenas request, “Any and all employment records, including, but not limited to: wages, attendance, payroll records, salary, benefits, application, Workers’ Compensation claims records, timesheets, vacation and sick leave, health insurance records, medical records, performance reviews, evaluations, job description and analysis, safety records, disciplinary reports, injury reports, disability records, wage loss records, termination/separation records, complaints made by the employee of any kind, and any other personnel file records in your custody or control pertaining to Dante Higgins (DOB: 12/31/1963, SSN: XXX-XX-9019) from the date of application to the last day or employment or present.”            Plaintiff asserts that the DMV was his employer from May 2019 to March 2022 and LA Care was his employer from April 2017 to May 2019.            Plaintiff contends that on December 5, 2023, plaintiff served objections and that plaintiff’s counsel requested that defendant either withdraw or narrow the subpoenas.  Plaintiff’s counsel sent a follow up email to defense counsel on December 14 and 19, 2023.  Defense counsel responded that defendant would be willing to modify the subpoenas to applications for employment, information sufficient as to all compensation received, personnel file, performance reviews and disciplinary records, attendance records, termination/separation records, and any records relating to any complaints made by plaintiff.            Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas are overly broad and seek information protected under California’s right to privacy.  Plaintiffs further argue that defendant cannot demonstrate the countervailing interest served by disclosure of all private records from plaintiff’s prior employment and that the subpoenas seek documents that constitute improper character evidence.  Plaintiff asserts that less intrusive methods are available.  Plaintiff contends that plaintiff is amenable to production of wages, payroll records, salary, benefits, and job description and analysis from prior employers.            In opposition, defendant argues that such records are relevant because plaintiff allege he suffers from ongoing emotional distress and has been unable to obtain suitable employment and defendants seeks to “test those claims by discovering potential alternative causes of alleged emotional and economic damages,” including mitigation efforts.  Defendant asserts that it also seeks to test the credibility of plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he voluntarily resigned from his former job at DMV yet also testified that he was asked to leave because of a physical altercation.  Defendant contends that it is willing to enter into a protective order.            The court rules as follows:  Although this case is an employment case, the court finds that the subpoenas to plaintiff’s former employers are overly broad.  The court finds that the subpoenas should be narrowed, and the court modifies the subpoenas as follows to allow for discovery of:  job description, attendance, payroll records (including wages, salary, benefits), application, performance reviews and evaluations, disciplinary reports, and termination/separation records only.  Defendant has shown that such records are directly relevant to plaintiff’s claim for past and future damages, including mitigation, and that the need for the records thus outweighs plaintiff’s privacy rights.  In a wrongful termination case, the general rule is that damages are calculated based on the amount of salary agreed upon for the period of services, less the amount the employer proves the employee earned, or with reasonable effort might have earned, from other employment.  Villacorta v. Cemex Cement, Inc. (2013) 221 Cal. App. 4th 1425, 1432.   Further, plaintiff’s privacy can be protected through a confidential protective order.CCP §1987.2(a) provides that the court may award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or if one or more of the subpoena requirements was oppressive. Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,860 against defendant and defense counsel.  Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $4,000.  The court finds that sanctions are not warranted as both parties acted with substantial justification. The motion is GRANTED as to modifying the subpoenas to California DMV and LA Care.  The requests for sanctions are denied.ORDERThe motion is GRANTED as to modifying the subpoenas to California DMV and LA Care to allow for discovery of job description, attendance, payroll records (including wages, salary, benefits), application, performance reviews and evaluations, disciplinary reports, and termination/separation records only.  The requests for sanctions are denied.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of ruling.  