 Case Number:  24STCV08794    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  74 Sheth v.
Porsche Cars North America, Inc.
Plaintiff Paola Sheth’s Motion to
Compel Further Reponses to Request for Production, Set One. 
 
BACKGROUND  
            Plaintiff
Paola Sheth (Plaintiff) filed her Complaint against defendant Porsche Cars
North America (Defendant) alleging products liability under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (Song-Beverly). 
            On
June 13, 2024, Plaintiff propounded Requests for Production, Set One (RfP). 
            Plaintiff
agreed to provide multiple extensions to Defendant.
            On
August 6, 2024, Defendant served verified responses.
            On
October 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Compel Further.
            The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request filed on October 28 that the court strike
Defendant’s objections
            
LEGAL STANDARD 
The
propounding party may bring motions to compel inspection or further responses
to interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses
received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are
meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   
            California
Rules of Court rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery, including motions to compel further responses to a demand
for inspection of documents, contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses.  (CRC, rule
3.1345(a).) 
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(d).)
 
Meet and
Confer
            This
motion must be accompanied by a good-faith meet-and-confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b).)  “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate… involves the exercise of discretion.”  (Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.)  “The history
of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the nature of
the issues, the type and scope of discovery requested, the prospects for
success and other similar factors can be relevant.  Judges have broad powers and responsibility
to determine what measure and procedures are appropriate in varying
circumstances.”  (Ibid.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            The
Court notes that Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further is timely even though
Plaintiff filed and served the motion more than 45 days from the receipt of
Defendant’s responses because the 45-day time limit does not run if the motion
challenges only objections.  (Golf
& Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127,
136; See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) 
Plaintiff made a good-faith effort to meet and confer before filing the
motion.  (Beck Decl., ¶ 22-26.)  
            Plaintiff
requests the Court compel further responses to RfP Nos. 7, 10, 16-23, 26-28,
32, 41, 44-47, 49-51 and 67-68.
Requests for Production Nos. 7 and
10
            Request
for Production No. 7 requests “[t]he Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual
published by YOU and provided to YOUR authorized repair facility(s), within the
state of California, from 2018 to the present….” 
            Requests
for Production No. 10 requests “[a] copy of the Workshop Manual specifying
diagnosis and repair procedures for vehicles of the same year, make and model
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
            Defendant
objects to Request for Production Nos. 7 and 10 on the grounds that the request
(1) requires Defendant to produce copyrighted material, (2) is overly broad,
unduly burdensome, oppressive, seeks information and/or documents that are not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, (3)
seeks confidential material, (4) seeks documents that are irrelevant and not
proportional to the needs of the case, (5) requires the preparation of a
compilation, abstract, audit or summary, and (6) that the request “exceeds the
permissible scope of discovery and the limitations that are set forth in the
California Code of Civil Procedure, and /or any other applicable court rules.
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendant’s objections that the RfP
requires “the compilation, abstract, audit or summary”, and “exceeds the
permissible scope… and/or any other applicable court rules” are facially
impermissible boilerplate objections giving the Court the authority to compel
further responses.  (Best Products,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189.)
            The
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses.  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Given this obligation, Defendant defends its
objections to Plaintiff’s RfP Nos. 7 and 10 on the grounds that the RfP are not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.   Defendant also asserts that it is not required
to produce documents in the possession of third-party dealerships. 
            The
Court finds Defendant’s objections to relevance unavailing.  Defendant’s primary argument is that
Plaintiff does not currently allege Defendant’s failure to follow procedures,
but “the scope of allowable discovery is broader than strict relevancy to the
issues raised by the pleadings…. One… reason is to enable a plaintiff to
determine whether there are grounds for amending a complaint to add additional
claims.”  (Mabie v. Hyatt (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596.)  Plaintiff’s
request is relevant to the repair history of the vehicle; therefore,
Plaintiff’s request is sufficiently relevant and reasonably calculated to lead
to admissible evidence.   
            Defendant’s
assertion that it is not required to produce documents in possession of a
third-party is available as a code-compliant response to a request for
production.  Defendant may respond that it
lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection.  (Roche v. Hyde (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th
757, 813.)  Therefore, Defendant is not
relieved from providing code-compliant discovery responses simply because it may
not have any responsive documents in its possession.  
Request for Production Nos. 16- 28,
32, 49, 50, 67 and 68
            Requests
for Production Nos. 16-28 all request a variation of “[a]ll DOCUMENTS,
including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic
mails, concerning… [DEFECT]… in vehicle[s] of the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
Requests
for Production No. 32 requests “[a]ll DOCUMENTS where refer to, reflect, or
relate to any technical service bulletin… for vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
            Requests
for Production No. 49 and 50 request “[a]ll Vehicle Warranty History Reports
for the repurchased or replaced vehicles due to the [DEFECT] for the same make,
model and year as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  
            Requests
for Production NO. 67 and 68 requests “[a]ll DOCUMENTS related to [electronic
communications] which in any way relate to [DEFECT] in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
Defendant
objects to Request for Production Nos. 16-28, 32, 49,
50, 67 and 68 on the grounds that the request (1) requires Defendant to
produce copyrighted material, (2) is overly broad, unduly burdensome,
oppressive, seeks information and/or documents that are not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, (3) seeks
confidential material, (4) seeks documents that are irrelevant and not
proportional to the needs of the case, (5) requires the preparation of a
compilation, abstract, audit or summary, and (6) that the request exceeds the
permissible scope of discovery and the limitations that are set forth in the
California Code of Civil Procedure, and /or any other applicable court rules.
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendant’s objections that the RfP
requires “the compilation, abstract, audit or summary”, and “exceeds the
permissible scope… and/or any other applicable court rules” are facially
impermissible boilerplate objections giving the Court the authority to compel
further responses.  (Best Products,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189.)
            The
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses.  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Given this obligation, Defendant defends its
objections to Plaintiff’s RfP Nos. 16-28 on the grounds that (1) the
information is not reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible
information, (2) the request is overboard and unduly burdensome, and (3) the
information may be protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
            Defendant’s
objections are unpersuasive. RfP Nos. 16-28, 49, 50, 67 and 68 address the very
subject matter directly relevant to Plaintiff’s cases, namely documents
regarding other cars of the same make, model and year that suffered from the
same defect as Plaintiff’s.  (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 2017.010 [scope of discovery encompasses not just specific claims
and defenses but “any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter”].) RfP No. 32 is not specific to the defects Plaintiff alleges, but is
still limited to the make, model and year of Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff’s
requests are relevant to Plaintiff’s vehicle, defects in similar vehicles, and service
bulletins, and therefore is reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of
admissible information. 
Defendant
asserts in its opposition that the scope of discovery is overly broad for the
needs of a Lemon law case and unduly burdensome. The court passes on further
consideration of Defendant’s boilerplate objection unsupported by any detail.  
Finally,
Defendants assert that some of the documents may include privileged
materials.  Defendant has failed to
provide “sufficient factual information… to evaluate the merits of any claimed
privilege” because it provides no information establishing the attorney-client
privilege, attorney work product privilege, right to privacy, or trade secret
privilege as it relates to the requested documents.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1); Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 [rejecting “the de facto
starting assumption that such an egregious invasion [of privacy] is involved in
every request for discovery of private information” and holding that “[c]ourts
must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to
establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and
against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party
identifies”].)  Defendant has failed to
meet its burden of establishing a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy, and a threatened intrusion that
is sufficiently serious to justify its privacy objection.        
Requests for Production Nos. 41, 44-47
and 51
            Request
for Production No. 41 requests documents used to evaluate customers’ requests
for repurchases under Song-Beverly.
            Request
for Production Nos. 44 and 45 request documents relating to customer service
responses to customer calls regarding the defects of vehicles of the same year,
make and model.  
            Request
for Production No. 46 requests documents relating to “policies, procedures
and/or instructions since 2018 that YOUR employees and agents should follow
when evaluating customer requests for [refunds or replacements].”  
            Request
for Production No. 47 requests documents relating to after a decision has been
made to refund or replace.  This is not
limited in scope to since 2018. 
            Request
for Production No. 51 requests documents “which evidence YOUR organization
charts of people within YOUR customer service call center or prelitigation
department. 
Defendant
objects to Request for Production Nos. 41, 44-47 and 51 on the grounds that the
request (1) requires Defendant to produce copyrighted material, (2) is overly
broad, unduly burdensome, oppressive, seeks information and/or documents that
are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence,
(3) seeks confidential material, (4) seeks documents that are irrelevant and
not proportional to the needs of the case, (5) requires the preparation of a
compilation, abstract, audit or summary, and (6) that the request “exceeds the
permissible scope of discovery and the limitations that are set forth in the
California Code of Civil Procedure, and /or any other applicable court rules.
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendant’s objections that the RfP
requires “the compilation, abstract, audit or summary”, and “exceeds the
permissible scope… and/or any other applicable court rules” are facially
impermissible boilerplate objections giving the Court the authority to compel
further responses.  (Best Products,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189.)
            The
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses.  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Given this obligation, Defendant defends its
objections to Plaintiff’s RfP Nos. 41, 44-47 and 51 on the grounds that the
requested documents do not exist. 
Defendant’s objection based on burden in its initial discovery response
to RfP Nos. 41, 46, 47 is insufficiently detailed for the Court to uphold.  Defendant’s initial objection states, in
relevant part, that “[Defendant] has used countless “documents” to evaluate
consumers’ requests for repurchase and it is literally impossible to identify,
let alone produce, all of them” then states “[t]o the extent Plaintiff is
referring to some kind of booklet or pamphlet published by [Defendant]
summarizing the lemon law, none exists.” Defendant has not provided the
required evidence detailing the amount of work involved, in order to support
objections based upon burden and oppression. 
(West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407,
417.)  Therefore, Defendant has not met its
burden of defending the objection based on burden. 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Production No. 47 is overbroad on its face because it does not
limit the scope of the production of documents at all.
            Additionally,
Defendant’s assertion that a document doesn’t exist does not relieve it of an
obligation to provide code-complaint responses. 

 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grant in part and denies in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses. The Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses only
to Request for Production No. 47. 
            The
Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions as unwarranted.
            Plaintiff to give notice.