 Case Number:  24STCV00656    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  74 Parseghian  v. Real Ketones, LLC et al.  Defendants Real Ketones, LLC and CVS  Pharmacy, Inc.’s Demurrer   BACKGROUND               Plaintiff Berj Parseghian brought  this complaint against Real Ketones, LLC and CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (Defendants) in  the public interest under California Health & Safety Code section 25249.6  et seq. (Proposition 65.)              Defendants demur to the Complaint.    JUDICIAL NOTICE The  Court grants judicial notice to Ex. “A”, “G”, “H” and “I”. The  Court denies the other requests for judicial notice. Moreover, on its own  motion, the Court strikes the following from the parties’ papers because the  parties improperly cite non-precedential trial court rulings on a point of  law: Is the proper standard strict compliance or substantial compliance, or  alternatively, is contact information for an attorney sufficient? The court  strikes: (1)   Moving Papers: pp. 2:18-3:8,  11:20-12:13  (2)   Opposition: pp. 5:13-6:14, 13:17-25 (3)   Reply: p. 7:20-27 Defendants  misread Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. ExxonMobil Corp. (168  Cal.App.4th 675, 686-687, which is distinguishable. ExxonMobile found  that privity (which is either a purely factual question or a mixed question of  law and fact) existed between two public advocacy groups seeking redress  against the same defendant involving the same primary right. Here, however,  Defendants incorrectly attempt to expand ExxonMobile to argue that other  trial courts’ non-precedential decisions involving the pure question of law of  the proper interpretation of Proposition 65 ought to influence or bind this  court. To state the proposition shows its invalidity.   DISCUSSION             Defendants  demur to the Complaint on the ground that Plaintiff did not meet the statutory pre-suit  notice requirements for private enforcement of Proposition 65.  Specifically, Proposition 65 requires that  the “private action [must await its commencement for at least] 60 days from the  date that the person has given notice of an alleged violation.”  (Health & Safety § 25249.7.)  The notice must include a copy of the “Safe  Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986” and a description of the  violation.  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, §  25903(b).)  The description of the  violation shall include “the name, address, and telephone number of the noticing  individual or a responsible individual within the noticing entity and the name  of the entity . . .”  (Cal. Code Regs.,  tit. 27, § 25903(b)(2)(A).) “Failure to comply with the presuit notice  requirements is grounds for dismissal . . .”   (Council for Education & Research on Toxics v. Starbucks Corp.  (Starbucks Corp.) (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 879, 900.) Defendants  contend that Plaintiff’s notice was insufficient because it stated that Plaintiff  was the noticing individual, but provided the name, address, and telephone  number for Plaintiff’s attorney. The key considerations for adequate notice are  “(1) whether the requirements of section 12903 are satisfied; (2) whether the  notice is sufficiently specific to permit the Attorney General and accused a  meaningful opportunity to investigate; and (3) whether the notice is  sufficiently specific to permit the accused a meaningful opportunity to  cure.”  (Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc.  v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America (Kintetsu) (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th  953, 966.)  The  parties dispute whether giving attorney contact information for a represented  noticing individual is sufficient compliance with Proposition 65.  Defendants contend strict compliance is  required.  Plaintiff responds that only  substantial compliance is required, and that Plaintiff’s attorney is the  appropriate individual to be named in the notice. Strict  compliance may be inferred when the governing law (1) provides a detailed and  specific mandate or (2) the governing law’s purpose can be met only by  enforcing strict compliance with the law’s terms.  (Prang v. Los Angeles Cnty. Assessment  Appeals Bd. No. 2 (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 1, 19.) Here, the regulation lacks  a “detailed and specific mandate” for strict compliance. Instead, the regulation  states “[t]he provisions of this paragraph shall not be interpreted to require  more than reasonably clear information….”   (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25903(b)(2).)  This language suggests strict compliance is  not required.             Moreover, and in the same vein, Proposition 65 case law supports substantial compliance.  In Kintetsu, the plaintiff provided  notice to hundreds of hotels and retail establishments for exposure to  secondhand smoke. Kintetsu analyzed whether the notices were sufficient  by considering whether the notices permitted the recipients to understand the  nature of the alleged violation.  Kintetsu  stated the notice “requirements ‘shall not be interpreted to  require more than reasonably clear information, expressed in terms of common  usage and understanding, on each of the indicated topics.” (§ 12903, subd. (b)(2)(C).) Subdivision (b) lists the  general requirements: a specified attachment summarizing Proposition 65;  description of the violation; the name of the noticing entity; the name of the  alleged violator; the approximate time period for the violation; the name of  each chemical involved in the alleged violation; and the route of exposure.” (Kintetsu  at p. 964.) In Yeroushalmi v.  Miramar Sheraton (Yeroushalmi), the appellate court examined several  pre-suit notices.  The plaintiffs in that  case alleged that they had substantially complied with the regulation but the  appellate court found as a factual matter that a notice was not in substantial  compliance because “it fails to provide adequate, or indeed, any  information to assess the nature of the alleged violation.”  (88 Cal.App.4th 738, 746-747.) The appellate  court did not, however, hold that strict compliance was the standard. (Ibid.  at pp. 745.)             The  pre-suit notice requirement aims before a noticing-party files a lawsuit to  provide an opportunity for either pre-lawsuit resolution of the dispute or for  a public agency to assume enforcement under Proposition 65. In the absence of  an express statement in Proposition 65 or in case law requiring strict  compliance, the court declines to interpret Proposition 65 in a way that invites  defense counsel to step into the ethical minefield of directly contacting a  represented noticing-party and interfering with a noticing-party’s right to  retain counsel. Providing an attorney’s contact information is sufficient to  permit communication with a noticing-party who elects to have an attorney speak  for the noticing-party.              CONCLUSION             The  Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer.             Defendants  shall file their answer within 20 days.             Defendants  to give notice.