  Case Number:  22STCV38725    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  74 John D.F.
Doe v. Roe 1
County of Los Angeles’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
            Defendant
requests Plaintiff be compelled to respond to Form Interrogatory (FROG) No.
2.5.  FROG No. 2.5 requests Plaintiff
“[s]tate: a) your present residence ADDRESS; b) your residence ADDRESSES for
the last five years; c) the dates you lived at each ADDRESS.” Plaintiff objects
that the request violates Plaintiff’s right to privacy under Code of Civil
Procedure 367.3, which protects personally identifying information.
Section
367.3 permits survivors of sexual abuse to proceed using a pseudonym and
“exclude or redact from all pleadings and documents filed in the action other
identifying characteristics of the protected person.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 367.3(b)(1).) “Identifying
characteristics” include Plaintiff’s address, making the address subject to
non-disclosure in pleadings and documents “filed in the
action.” But Defendant is not seeking leave to disclose Plaintiff’s address in
a filing; instead, Defendant is seeking to learn the
address through discovery. Plaintiff cites no authority that Plaintiff’s
address is protected from discovery, particularly when a
protective order exists.
 Individuals have a substantial interest in the
privacy of addresses.  (Planned
Parenthood Golden Gate v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 347,
359.)  Even in the case of routinely
produced discovery information, “‘the party seeking discovery of private matter
must do more than satisfy the [Code of Civil Procedure] section 2017 standard.’
[citations omitted]” (Id.) Defendant seeks Plaintiff’s address in order
to allow Defendant (1) to obtain background information on Plaintiff, (2) to
seek Plaintiff’s medical records, (3) to identify any witnesses to Plaintiff’s
emotional distress, and (4) to conduct sub rosa.
            
            Weighing
Plaintiff’s privacy interest depends on the consequence of disclosure.  First, Plaintiff’s information is already
protected by Code of Civil Procedure section 367.3.  Second, Plaintiff does not argue that there
are any heightened risks of disclosure. 
Third, Defendant has agreed to sign a protective order exceeding what
section 367.3 already protects. Given that Plaintiff’s privacy interest is
already being protected, and Plaintiff does not show any heightened risk of
disclosure, the balance of privacy interests supports compelling a further
response. 
Sanctions
            Defendant
requests $3,112.50 in sanctions against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record,
jointly and severally.  Plaintiff’s
counsel requests that sanctions be denied because Plaintiff’s counsel acted
“out of an abundance of caution.”  (Opp.,
pp. 6:21-24.)  Despite this fact,
Plaintiff’s attorney knew that Code of Civil Procedure section 367.3 protected
Plaintiff’s identifiable information from being filed in a pleading or document
but established no similar bar against discovery. Therefore, the Court grants
sanctions.  Defendant requests 5 hours
for attempting to obtain further responses, meeting and conferring, drafting
the motion and preparing supporting documents as well as an additional 2.5
hours at a billing rate of $415 per hour. 
The Court finds 4.5 hours is a reasonable amount of time and orders only
Plaintiff to pay $1,867.50 in attorney’s fees to Defendant’s counsel within 30
days. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatory No. 2.5.
Plaintiff
shall serve Plaintiffs’ response to without objection within 10 days.
The
Court orders Plaintiff to pay Defendant’s counsel $1,867.50 within 30 days.
Defendant
shall provide notice.