  Case Number:  21STCV06515    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



ARMEN TEMURIAN, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
SATHIYA ARAJ RASIAH, aka RAJ
  MILTON, aka MILTON RASIH, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV06515




Hearing Date:


July 30, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO DISQUALIFY
  COUNSEL



Background
On February 18, 2021,
Plaintiffs Armen Temurian (“Temurian”) and Luis Amaya, individually, and
dba Vista Network Technologies USA and as Vista Network (jointly, “Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendants Sathiya Araj Rasiah, aka Raj Milton, aka
Milton Rasih, Ask Milton Group, George Akopian, and Raju Rasiah. The Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraudulent inducement, (3)
money had and received, 
(4) breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, and (5) unfair business practices.
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege they “were forming a company, called Vista Smart Mining
Pool so that Plaintiffs’ clients could participate in bitcoin mining and a
client exchange pool.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs allege that they were “developing
a hardware unit that could be shipped to Plaintiffs’ customers to mine
crypto-currency from their homes, called ‘Decentralized Mining’ using a product
called ‘The Mini Miner’.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) The “Mini Miner” also allowed
trading with other crypto-currency customers through an exchange called a
“Slush Pool.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiffs allege they entered into a
written “Technology Agreement” with defendants on December 13, 2017, and that
on or about January 1, 2018, Plaintiffs entered into an agreement with defendants,
partly oral and partly written, whereby defendants “promised to develop 400
Mini-Miners compatible with a pool that other cryptocurrency miners could
utilize…” (Compl., ¶¶ 14, 15.) Plaintiffs allege they completed payment to defendants
for the “Mini Miners” and the “Slush Pool.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiffs allege defendants failed to deliver to Plaintiffs 400
operational “Mini-Miners” and the software necessary to establish the “Slush
Pool” for use with the “Mini Miners.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege the
“Mini Miners” were underpowered and were unfit for their intended purposes. (Compl.,
¶ 22.) Plaintiffs also allege they paid defendants for ten “Vista Miners”
devices, which were never delivered to Plaintiffs. (Compl, ¶¶ 19, 22.)
Plaintiffs allege that as a result, they have been damaged in an amount not
less than $341,000.00, plus the amount of refunds Plaintiffs were required to
make to persons who acquired defective “Mini Miners” from Plaintiffs. (Compl.,
¶¶ 23-24.)   
Plaintiffs filed a
motion to disqualify Stephen Feldman, Esq. from representing Sathiya
Araj Rasiah, aka Raj Milton, George Akopian, and Raju Rasiah in this
proceeding. Milton Rasiah, George Akopian, and Raju Rasiah (collectively,
“Defendants”) opposed.
On March 4, 2024, the Court issued a minute order in this matter
providing, inter alia, that “[a]t the hearing, Counsel for Plaintiff
requested an opportunity to try to obtain the relevant telephone records for
Mr. Temurian and Mr. Feldman that may show a phone conversation between them.
The request was granted. Th [sic] Court sets the following: Status Conference
Re: Phone Records is scheduled for 04/23/24 at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at
Stanley Mosk Courthouse. Plaintiff will inform the Court of the results and the
Court will set a new hearing date for the motion in light of the results. If
necessary, additional briefing will be permitted to include the results of the
search for telephone records. The motion is continued for resetting purposes as
follows: Pursuant to the request of plaintiff, the Hearing on Motion to
Disqualify Counsel scheduled for 03/04/2024 is continued to 04/23/24 at 10:00
AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a “Supplemental Declaration of
Armen Temurian; and Declaration of Houry Tartarian in Support of Plaintiffs’
Motion to Disqualify Counsel.” 
On April 18, 2024, Defendants filed objections to the supplemental
declarations of Armen Temurian and Houry Tartarian. As noted in Defendants’
objections, the Court did not authorize Plaintiffs’ filing of the supplemental
declarations. As set forth above, the Court’s March 4, 2024 minute order
provides, inter alia, that “Counsel for Plaintiff requested an
opportunity to try to obtain the relevant telephone records for Mr. Temurian
and Mr. Feldman that may show a phone conversation between them. The request was
granted…Plaintiff will inform the Court of the results and the Court will set a
new hearing date for the motion in light of the results. If necessary,
additional briefing will be permitted to include the results of the search for
telephone records.” Thus, the Court declines to consider the supplemental
declarations filed on April 17, 2024.  
On April 23, 2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, as follows: 
 
“The parties have agreed to a further
deposition of Defendant, Milton Rasiah to address the alleged attorney client
issues raised in the motion to disqualify counsel with the understanding that
any waiver of the privilege is limited to this purpose only. The deposition
will be taken within 45 days of today’s date on a mutually agreeable date and
at a mutually agreeable time. The deposition may be via Zoom. Additionally,
Plaintiff will determine whether to dismiss Defendant, Milton Group within that
same period of time. On the Court’s own motion, the Hearing on Motion to
Disqualify Counsel scheduled for 04/23/2024 is continued to 07/30/24 at 10:00
AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. On or before July 8, 2024
moving party may file and serve a supplemental brief of no more than five pages
in support of the motion if there is new information gleaned from the Rasiah
deposition. An opposition brief of no more than five pages may be filed nine
court days before the hearing. A reply brief of no more than three pages may be
filed five court days before the hearing.” 
The Court notes that the moving party did not file any supplemental
brief in support of the motion. 
 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
128, subdivision (a)(5), one of the court’s inherent powers is to control
the conduct of its ministerial officers and of all other persons in any manner
connected with a judicial proceeding before it in furtherance of justice. ((Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1837-1838.)
That power necessarily includes disqualifying an attorney. However, as observed
in Metro-Goldwyn Mayer:
 
“The issue of disqualification ultimately involves a
conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their choice and the need to
maintain ethical standards of professional responsibility. The paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of public
trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.
The recognized and important right to counsel of one’s choosing must yield to
considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity of our judicial
process.” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp.,
supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at p. 1838 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].) 
Ultimately, whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter
wholly committed to the court’s sound discretion. ((Henriksen
v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) “In exercising that discretion,
the trial court is required to make a reasoned judgment which complies with the
legal principles and policies applicable to the issue at hand.” (Ibid.)
As set forth above, Plaintiffs request that
the Court disqualify
Stephen Feldman, Esq. (herein, “Feldman”) from representing Sathiya Araj
Rasiah, aka Raj Milton, George Akopian, and Raju Rasiah in this proceeding. 
Plaintiffs submit the
Declaration of Armen Temurian in support of the motion. In his declaration,
Temurian states that “[i]n 2017, I was working on the concept of developing
hardware which customers could use to mine cryptocurrency from their homes. I
had no technical expertise at that time. In October 2017, George Akopyan
introduced me to Milton Sathia Raj Rasiah (‘Rasiah’), who represented himself as a developer who
could build such machines, he called them ‘Mini-Miners.’
A few months later, we
entered into a contract with Rasiah and began working on developing the ‘Mini-Miners’ and other products.” (Temurian Decl., ¶ 2.)
Temurian states that “[d]uring this time, a conflict arose between my company
and a third party which concerned the customer labels and shipment of the
Mini-Miners, as well as, software development for my company Vista Network
Technologies USA, and dba Vista Network,” and that “[s]ometime in April 2018,
Rasiah introduced me to his attorney, Stephen Feldman, Esq. to assist me with
this dispute.” (Temurian Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) 
Temurian states that
“[o]n April 10, 2018, I compiled a list of documents, including confidential
information pertaining to Vista’s
business, and emailed it
to Defendant Rasiah to be forwarded to Feldman.” (Temurian Decl., ¶ 5.)
Temurian further states that “[o]n April 11, 2018, my business associate, Houry
Tartarian, sent another email to Defendant Rasiah for Feldman’s review which included a letter addressed to my former business
partner with whom I had a dispute. The letter outlined the issues we were experiencing
and included substantial confidential information about our and Vista’s business.” (Temurian Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Temurian states that on
or about April 14, 2018, he received an email from Rasiah which forwarded an
email from Feldman. (Temurian Decl., ¶ 7.) Temurian states that Feldman’s email
read: “From the emails that I was able to access, it appears that the Florida
individuals
engaged in actions giving rise to potential claims for breach of
fiduciary duty, conversion, fraud, accounting, constructive trust and
accounting. It appears that most of the activity occurred outside of
California. Without a stronger connection to the state of California, I would
doubt that California has jurisdiction. Unfortunately, it appears that the best
route would be to bring an action in Florida. This matter may be brought in
federal court under diversity jurisdiction or in the State Court. Let me know
if you have any questions or need any further information.” (Temurian Decl., ¶
7.) Temurian states in his declaration that “[u]pon receipt of Feldman’s response, I had a lengthy and substantive telephone conversation
with Feldman wherein I relayed to Feldman important confidential information
about my and Vista’s business, the structure thereof, my financial condition
and so forth. Feldman referred me to counsel in Florida.” (Temurian Decl. at ¶
8.) 
            In the motion, Plaintiffs
cite to California
Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.18,
which provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
“(a) A person…who, directly or through an authorized representative,
consults a lawyer for the purpose of retaining the lawyer or securing legal
service or advice from the lawyer in the lawyer’s professional capacity, is a
prospective client.
 
(b) Even when no lawyer-client relationship ensues, a lawyer who has
communicated with a prospective client shall not use or reveal information
protected by Business and Professions Code section
6068, subdivision (e) and rule 1.6
that the lawyer learned as a result of the consultation, except as rule 1.9 would permit with respect to
information of a former client.
 
(c) A lawyer subject to paragraph (b) shall not represent a client
with interests materially adverse to those of a prospective client in the same
or a substantially related matter if the lawyer received from the prospective
client information protected by Business and
Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and rule 1.6 that is material to the matter,
except as provided in paragraph (d). If a lawyer is prohibited from
representation under this paragraph, no lawyer in a firm…with which that lawyer
is associated may knowingly…undertake or continue representation in such a
matter, except as provided in paragraph (d).” 
            Plaintiffs assert that here, they
were potential clients of
Feldman, and that Feldman “was privy to confidential information pertaining to
Plaintiffs’ business, which is now the crux of this proceeding against
Defendants.” (Mot. at p. 8:11-13.) Plaintiffs
contend that “[t]he Rules
of Professional Conduct and the circumstances involving Stephen Feldman, Esq.’s
representation of Defendants require his disqualification.” (Mot. at p.
9:13-14.)
            In the opposition, Defendants first assert
that “there was no attorney-client relationship between Vista and counsel.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:5-6.) Defendants cite to Civil Serv. Com v. Superior Court (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d
70, 76-77, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[b]efore an attorney may be disqualified from representing a
party in litigation because his representation of that party is adverse to the
interest of a current or former client, it must first be established that the
party seeking the attorney’s disqualification was or is ‘represented’ by the
attorney in a manner giving rise to an attorney-client relationship.” 
            In the reply, Plaintiffs counter
that “[i]t is not necessary for Plaintiffs to establish the existence of
an attorney-client relationship to disqualify Feldman.”
(Reply at p. 2:27-28.) Indeed, in Oaks Management Corporation v. Superior Court (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 453, 464, cited by Plaintiffs, the Court of Appeal noted
that “disqualification may be proper
when, as here, an attorney-client relationship is not at issue.” (Emphasis in
original.) The Oaks Court noted that “[i]n Raley, supra, 149 Cal. App. 3d 1042, this court explained:
Professional responsibilities do not turn on whether a member of the State Bar
acts as a lawyer. One who is licensed to practice as an attorney in this
state must conform to the professional standards in whatever capacity he [or
she] may be acting in a particular matter.” (Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].) 
            In addition,
in Roush v. Seagate Technology, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 210, 219, cited
by Plaintiffs, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he classic disqualification
case involves the attorney switching sides, ‘so that an attorney who once
represented ‘A’ now seeks to represent ‘B’ in a matter materially related to
the original representation.’…In other cases, counsel may be disqualified where
counsel has obtained the secrets of an adverse party in some other manner,
such as where counsel’s newly hired paralegal had access to the adversary’s
confidences while working for opposing counsel, or where counsel obtained
confidential information from an expert with whom opposing counsel had
consulted. Disqualification is warranted in these cases, not because the
attorney has a direct duty to protect the adverse party’s confidences, but
because the situation implicates the attorney’s ethical duty to maintain the
integrity of the judicial process.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
Defendants also assert in the opposition that “counsel received no
confidential information from Vista.” (Opp’n at p. 6:18-19.) Defendants argue
that the “information
which was sent by Vista to Milton was forwarded by Milton to Counsel. However, this
information was not confidential since Vista had delivered this information
voluntarily to Milton prior to the information being sent to Counsel.” (Opp’n at p.
6:25-27.) But as set forth above, Temurian also states in his supporting
declaration that he “had a lengthy and substantive telephone conversation with
Feldman wherein [he] relayed to Feldman important confidential information
about [his] and Vista’s business, the structure thereof, [his] financial
condition and so forth.” (Temurian Decl., ¶ 8.)
Defendants also assert
that “the provided information aside from being non-confidential had nothing to
do with the present case between Vista and Milton and was primarily oriented
toward the Vista dispute with the company in Florida…Neither Counsel for Vista
nor Temurian took any efforts to show a link between the disclosed information
and the pending action between Milton and Vista.” (Opp’n at p. 7:2-8.) But as
noted by Plaintiffs in the reply, “Feldman was privy to confidential
information pertaining to Plaintiffs’ business, which is now the crux of this
proceeding against Defendants.” (Reply at p. 3:18-19.)[1] As
discussed, Temurian states in his declaration under penalty of perjury that he
“had a lengthy and substantive telephone conversation with Feldman wherein [he]
relayed to Feldman important confidential information about [his] and Vista’s
businesses, the structure thereof, [his] financial condition and so forth.”
(Temurian Decl., ¶ 8.) 
In the opposition, Defendants also assert that “Vista…unduly delayed in bringing the
subject Motion to Disqualify Counsel.”
(Opp’n at p. 7:21-22.) Defendants cite to Antelope Valley Groundwater Cases (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th
602, 625, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “attorney
disqualification can be impliedly waived by failing to bring the motion in a
timely manner.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) The Antelope
Valley Groundwater Cases
Court further noted that “[t]o result in a waiver, the
delay [and]…the prejudice to the opponent must be extreme.
Factors relevant to the reasonableness of a delay include the stage of
litigation at which the disqualification motion is made and the complexity of
the case. Delay can also be an indication that the alleged breach of
confidentiality was not seen as serious or substantial by the moving party, and
can suggest the possibility that the party brought the motion as a tactical
device…If the opposing party makes a prima facie showing of extreme delay and
prejudice, the burden then shifts to the moving party to justify the delay.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations and citations omitted].)  
The instant action was
filed on February 18, 2021. Defendants assert that here, “[d]espite the
litigation of this matter the issue of the alleged conflict of interest was not
raised until July, 2023…This Motion to Disqualify was not filed until January
10, 2024 three weeks prior to trial…” (Opp’n at p. 8:10-12.)[2] But
as noted by Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ counsel states that she “substituted into
this case on May 4, 2023,” and that “[a] few months later, [her] clients
informed [her] that they previously communicated with Defendants’ counsel,
Stephen Feldman, Esq.” (Yacoubian Decl., ¶ 2.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[o]n July 5, 2023, [she] sent a letter
to Feldman advising him of a potential conflict of which [she] had just
learned. [She] also requested that Feldman withdraw from his representation of
Defendants.” (Yacoubian Decl., ¶ 3.) 
            Plaintiffs’ counsel further states that “[o]n or about July 14, 2023, [she]
received an email from Feldman wherein he denied having
a conversation with [Plaintiff’s counsel’s] client, and disagreed that there
was a potential conflict.” (Yacoubian Decl., ¶ 4.) On
or about July 18, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel again requested that Feldman
withdraw from the representation of
Defendants, and “[o]n July 25, 2023, [she]
further met and conferred by telephone with Feldman who
now recalled the conversation. Feldman continued to maintain that he
need not withdraw, but offered to allow
questions regarding any potential conflict during Milton Rasiah’s deposition.” (Yacoubian Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed. (Yacoubian
Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[o]n or about September 8,
2023, [she] took the deposition of Defendant Rasiah,” but “when [she] began
asking questions about the potential conflict, Feldman
objected to and instructed his client not to respond.” (Yacoubian Decl.,
¶ 7.) 
            In
light of the fact that Plaintiffs’ new counsel substituted into this case on
May 4, 2023 (Yacoubian Decl., ¶ 2), and in light of the fact that Feldman
thereafter “offered to allow questions regarding any potential conflict during
Milton Rasiah’s deposition” (Yacoubian Decl., ¶ 6), the Court does not find
that Defendants have shown that there has been “extreme” delay or that “tactical
abuse underlays the disqualification proceeding.” ((Id. at pp. 616, 625.) 
Defendants also assert
that “[t]he over two year wait until raising the alleged issue and as well as
the almost three-year delay in bringing the Motion to Disqualify has resulted
in extreme prejudice to Defendants who have selected counsel of their own
choosing, expended substantial legal fees, participated in depositions,
incurred substantial costs, prepared motions in limine and prepared for trial.
If this Motion to Disqualify is granted, Defendants would have to hire new
counsel at significant expense who would have to bring himself or herself up to
speed to prepare for the trial of this matter.” (Opp’n at p. 8:15-20.) In the
reply, Plaintiffs note that on January 12, 2024, the Court vacated the January
31, 2024 trial in this matter. (See
January 12, 2024 minute order.) Plaintiffs assert that “Defendants have
ample time to find a new counsel and prepare for trial. Contrarily, Feldman’s
continued representation of Defendants risks tainting the entire proceeding and
hinders obtaining a fair resolution at trial for Plaintiffs.” (Reply at p.
5:8-11.) As the previous January 31, 2024 trial date was vacated, the Court
does not find that Defendants
have shown “extreme” prejudice here. ((Id. at p. 625.) As discussed, the Trial
Setting Conference (to Determine the New Trial, FSC and Binder Lodging Dates)
is now scheduled for July 30, 2024. (See April 23, 2024 Minute Order.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause for the Court to
disqualify Feldman from
representing Sathiya Araj Rasiah, aka Raj Milton, George Akopian, and
Raju Rasiah in this action. 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED: 
July 30, 2024                                  
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court
 


