 Case Number:  23STCV18073    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



LANCASTER EAGLE, LLC,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
BARTZ-ALTADONNA COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  23STCV18073




Hearing Date:


July 31, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS
  CASTER MODELO, LLC, PAYAM BAHARI, AND HAIM BAHARI’S, DEMURRER TO FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANTS
  CASTER MODELO, LLC, PAYAM BAHARI, AND HAIM BAHARI’S, MOTION TO STRIKE
  PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT REGARDING CLAIM FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



Background
Plaintiff
Lancaster Eagle, LLC (“Lancaster Eagle”) filed this action on August 1, 2023
against Defendant Bartz-Altadonna Community Health Center (“Bartz”). 
Lancaster
Eagle filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on December 27, 2023
against Defendants Bartz, Caster Modelo, LLC (“Caster Modelo”), Payam Bahari,
Haim Bahari, and Pacific Premier Bank. The FAC alleges causes of action for (1)
breach of written contract, (2) breach of written contract, (3) breach of
written contract, and (4) specific performance.[1] 
On
March 13, 2024, Commerce
Escrow Company, a division of Pacific Premier Bank filed a “Cross-Complaint in
Interpleader” against Lancaster Eagle and Caster Modelo.  On March 15, 2024, Bartz filed a Cross-Complaint against
Lancaster Eagle, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2)
specific performance. 
Caster
Modelo, Payam Bahari, and Haim Bahari (collectively, the “Bahari
Defendants”) now demur to “the second cause of action and to the complaint in
general in [Plaintiff’s FAC].” The Bahari Defendants also move to strike
portions of the FAC. Lancaster Eagle opposes both. 
Demurrer
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿¿.) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams ¿v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿¿.) However, “¿¿[a] demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿¿” (¿Khoury ¿v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿¿.)¿¿
 
 
B.    Allegations of the FAC  
The FAC alleges that
Lancaster Eagle and Caster Modelo are co-owners of the property located at 42933
Business Center Parkway, Lancaster, CA 93535 (the “Property”). (FAC, ¶¶ 1, 10.)
On or about February 7, 2023, a Purchase and Sale Agreement (“PSA”) was
executed pursuant to which Lancaster
Eagle and Caster Modelo agreed to sell the Property and Bartz agreed to purchase the Property, at a
purchase price of $13,147,961.50. (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
“After the PSA was signed, and while the Property was in escrow, the
Property sustained physical damage, due to no fault of Plaintiff.” (FAC, ¶ 12.)
“On or about April 17, 2023, Bartz received a bid from its selected inspector,
which revealed that the damage to the Property exceeded $10,000. Pursuant to
Paragraph 9.1(n) of the PSA, Bartz had ten (10) days after its receipt of that
report to either terminate the PSA or proceed with the purchase of the Property
without adjustment of the purchase price. Bartz did not timely notify Plaintiff
of Bartz’s election to terminate under Paragraph 9.l(n) of the PSA and, as
such, was contractually obligated to purchase the Property without regard to
the damage and to close escrow on or before May 17, 2023.” (FAC, ¶ 12.) “On or
about May 18, 2023, Plaintiff and Caster Modelo, LLC, as Sellers, served a
Demand to Perform and Close Escrow…Defendants did not close as demanded.” (FAC,
¶ 13.) 
“In or about August of 2023, Caster Modelo informed Plaintiff that
Bartz still desired to purchase the Property, but for a purchase price lower
than the original contract price of $13,147,961.50. Plaintiff refused to
consent to such a sale and refused to reduce the price at all…” (FAC, ¶ 15.) “Plaintiff
authorized Caster Modelo, through Caster Model’s [sic] counsel, to negotiate a
voluntary close of the pending sale, but did so without unequivocally
committing to a lower number for the Property, and made clear that any proposed
sale would be contingent upon a fast close.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) 
“Thereafter, Caster Modelo made an offer to Bartz to sell the Property
to Barz [sic] for $12,800,000; a price at which Plaintiff agreed it would sell
the Property to Bartz provided Bartz agreed to close within a very short time
frame (e.g., weeks not months).” (FAC, ¶ 16.) “Plaintiff agreed to permit the
sale of the Property to Bartz provided that: (1) Plaintiff would receive, from
the proceeds at the close of escrow, the same amount it would receive if the
Property was sold for $12,800,000 (with Caster Modelo making up any shortfall
from the available proceeds from escrow) with both owners sharing the proceeds,
50/50; and (2) Bartz had to close the transaction no later than September 29,
2023, although Bartz would have the opportunity to secure one and only one
extension, through October 6, 2023, but only in the event a third party
involved in the transaction - such as Bartz’s bank, the title company or escrow
(but not Bartz itself) - required additional time to close the transaction, as
a result of no fault of Bartz.” (FAC, ¶ 17.) “On or about August 22, 2022,
Plaintiff, Caster Modelo and Bartz signed [a] Conditional Amendment to the
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated 2/7/2023 (the ‘Conditional Amendment’)…”
(FAC, ¶ 18.) 
“Escrow did not timely close on or before September 29, 2023…” (FAC, ¶
20.) “[O]n October 5, 2023, more than a week after the deadline to close, the
Bank notified Plaintiff and Caster Model [sic] that Bartz had advised the Bank
Bartz did ‘not want to close tomorrow on a Gap and will fund the loan on
Tuesday [October 10, 2023] and close Wednesday [October 11, 2023].” (FAC, ¶
20.) Lancaster Eagle alleges that “[a]s such, Bartz breached the Conditional
Amendment, expressly restoring Plaintiff’s right to pursue all of its damages
resulting from Bartz’s breach of the original PSA, and entitling Plaintiff to
specific performance, including an award of compensation to put Plaintiff in
the same economic position it would have been had Bartz timely complied with the
original purchase agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 20.)
Lancaster Eagle further alleges that “[t]he Bank ultimately paid the
inaccurate, lower sum to Plaintiff and withheld payment of the sums due Caster
Modelo as a result of an order of the Court issued in the case captioned Morad
Ben Neman, et al. v. Payam Bahari, et al., LASC Case No. 22STCV39168…”
(FAC, ¶ 21.) “Plaintiff demanded the Bank ‘true up’ Plaintiffs payoff by
remitting, from the sums still being held by the Bank, the difference from
Caster Modelo’s proceeds, which it still retained. In response, the Bank
notified Plaintiff that Caster Modelo and its alter egos, the Baharis, were now
‘disputing’ that Plaintiff was entitled to be paid its 50% share of the
proceeds assuming a purchase price of $12,800,000, and had instructed escrow
not to distribute Plaintiffs overdue funds to it.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
C.    Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, as set forth above, the Bahari Defendants state
that they demur to “the second cause of action and to the complaint in
general…” (Demurrer at p. ii:5-6.) In the demurrer, the Bahari Defendants appear
to assert that specific paragraphs of the FAC are uncertain, specifically,
paragraphs 13 and 41 of the FAC. (See Demurrer
at pp. 2:27-3:10.) To the extent the Bahari Defendants are demurring to these
specific allegations, the Court notes that “a party
may not demur to a portion of a cause of action.” ((PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 168.) In PH II, the Court of Appeal noted
that “when a substantive defect is
clear from the face of a complaint…a defendant may attack that portion of the
cause of action by filing a motion to strike.” ((Id.
at pp. 1682-1683.) 
In addition, the Bahari Defendants assert that “the specific
performance claim is defective.” (Demurrer at p. 6:8.) The Bahari Defendants
assert that “[w]hile the fourth cause of action contains a
heading indicating it is only against ‘Bartz and the Board Member Does,’ the
allegations therein are against ‘Defendants.’ As such, the Bahari Defendants
cannot determine whether specific performance claim is alleged against them.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:9-12.) As an initial matter, the Bahari Defendants do not
appear to state that they demur to the fourth cause of action. As discussed, the
Bahrai Defendants state that they demur to “the second cause of action and to
the complaint in general…” (Demurrer at p. ii:5-6.) Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subdivision (a),
“[e]ach ground of demurrer must be in a separate paragraph and must state
whether it applies to the entire complaint, cross-complaint, or answer, or to
specified causes of action or defenses.” In addition, in the opposition,
Lancaster Eagle states that the Bahari Defendants are a “non-party” to the
fourth cause of action. (Opp’n at p. 13:11.) 
D.    Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Written Contracts 
As discussed above, the second cause of action for breach of written
contracts is alleged against “Caster Modelo and the Baharis.” “[T]he elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.¿” (¿Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821¿.)  
In the demurrer, the Bahari Defendants assert that “[t]he second cause
of action does appear to identify two agreements breached by the Bahari
Defendants, but those allegations are uncertain…” (Demurrer at p. 3:23-24.)
The second cause of action alleges that “Plaintiff and Caster Modelo
(along with is alter egos, the Baharis) agreed that in exchange for Plaintiff’s
agreement to sell the Property to Bartz without pursuing its existing rights
against Bartz, Plaintiff would receive from the proceeds after the close of
Bartz’s purchase an economic return equivalent to a sales price of $12,800,000,
rather than the lower sum Caster Modelo insisted upon selling the Property to
Bartz. The parties’ agreement was confirmed in multiple writings by and between
the parties and their counsel.” (FAC, ¶ 31.)  Lancaster Eagle alleges that “Defendants have
breached their obligations, through and including their refusal to ‘authorize’
escrow to pay Plaintiff the sum both parties previously confirmed in writing
Plaintiff would be entitled to receive at the close of escrow and a management
fee Defendants admitted Plaintiff was owed…” (FAC, ¶ 32.) The Bahari Defendants
assert that “[w]hile paragraph 32 states that this ‘agreement was confirmed in
multiple writings by and between the parties and their counsel,’[2]
the FAC does not explicitly state whether the agreement itself was oral or in
writing, and such alleged agreement is not attached as an exhibit to the FAC.”
(Demurrer at p. 4:3-5.) 
            Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (g), cited by the Bahari
Defendants, “[t]he party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been
filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section
430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:…(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct.” Indeed, Lancaster Eagle alleges that “[t]he parties’ agreement was
confirmed in multiple writings by and between the parties and their counsel,”
(FAC, ¶ 31), but the FAC does not appear to specify whether the agreement
itself was in writing. 
The second cause of action also alleges that “[i]n addition Plaintiff
and Caster Modelo were party to a written Tenancy in Common Agreement (‘TIC
Agreement’) that entitled Plaintiff to receive a management fee for its
services managing the Property and other financial benefits, and also entitled
Plaintiff to maintain and administer a bank account to ensure that expenses of
the Property were timely paid.” (FAC, ¶ 31.) Lancaster Eagle alleges that “Defendants
have also breached their obligations under the parties’ TIC Agreement, through
and including their obligation to pay management and other fees to Plaintiff
and to allow Plaintiff to oversee and satisfy monthly bills at the expense of
the Property, and to receive management fees for its efforts in doing so.”
(FAC, ¶ 32.) In the demurrer, the Bahari Defendants assert that “there are no
specific facts alleged showing any breach of this agreement. In addition, the
FAC does not specify any specific terms of the TIC Agreement the Bahari
Defendants have allegedly breached.” (Demurrer at p. 5:2-4.) Indeed, the FAC
does not appear to identify any such terms. 
In
addition, Lancaster Eagle does not appear to respond to this point in the
opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the Bahari Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. 
Motion to Strike
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
The
Bahari Defendants move to strike portions of the FAC regarding Lancaster
Eagle’s claim for attorney’s fees. As set forth above, the Court sustains the
Bahari Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action of the FAC. As
discussed, the first and fourth causes of action of the FAC are alleged against
“Bartz and Board Member Does,” the second cause of action is alleged against
“Caster Modelo and the Baharis,” and the third cause of action is alleged
against “the Bank.” Because the Court sustains the Bahari Defendants’ demurrer
to the second cause of action of the FAC, the Court finds that the Bahari
Defendants’ motion to strike portions of the FAC is moot. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Bahari Defendants’ demurrer to
the second cause of action of the FAC is sustained, with leave to amend. The
Bahari Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise overruled. 
The Court denies the Bahari Defendants’ motion to strike as
moot.  
The Court orders
Lancaster Eagle to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days
of the date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the
Court orders the Bahari Defendants to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal
within 30 days of the date of this order. 
The Bahari Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  July 31, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior 


