 Case Number:  24STCV02535    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



245 LOS ROBLES, LLC,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FIRSTSERVICE RESIDENTIAL CALIFORNIA, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 24STCV02535




Hearing Date:


July 30, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: 
 
388 OWNERS
  ASSOCIATION’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS



            
Background
Plaintiff 245 Los Robles, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on January 31, 2024 against Defendants Firstservice
Residential California, LLC (“FSR”) and 388 Owners Association (the
“Association”) (jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) professional negligence, (2) negligence, (3) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage, (4) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, and (6) civil
conspiracy.[1] 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that it developed the
condominium project at the property located at 388 Cordova St., Pasadena CA
91101 (the “Property”). (Compl., ¶¶ 3, 13.) “In 2019, Plaintiff executed the
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of 388…which outlined the
powers and obligations of the HOA Board, a homeowners association made up of
owners of condominiums located at the Property with respect to units
constructed as part of Phase 1 of the Property.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) “Between April
and May of 2021, the HOA Board, acting on behalf of the 388 Owners Association,
executed a contract with Defendant FSR to provide property management services
for the Property. Under the contract, FSR was to manage all aspects of the
Property and coordinate the HOA’s duties.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n July 2023,
Plaintiff contacted Defendants with a simple request for their assistance in
responding to a routine Deficiency Notice (‘Notice’) issued by the California Department
of Real Estate (‘DRE’).” (Compl., ¶ 1.) “This Notice required that Plaintiff
respond to particular deficiencies identified by the Notice before it could
obtain regulatory approval of Phase 2 which would allow Plaintiff to sell Phase
2 units.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
“Plaintiff made it
clear then that it could not move forward with selling commercial and
residential units of a completed construction project (‘Phase 2’ or the ‘Project’)
worth millions of dollars until FSR provided the information necessary to
respond to the Notice.” (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that “[w]hile Defendants initially agreed to timely provide the
necessary information and documents such that Plaintiff could respond to the
DRE, Plaintiff’s communications with FSR and the [Association, acting through
its Board of Directors] quickly devolved into an inexcusable pattern of delay
or simple non-responsiveness on Defendants’ part. Worse yet, FSR’s routinely
late responses only generated more questions: FSR’s records were revealed to be
error-ridden, confusing to FSR’s own employees, and incomplete.” (Compl., ¶ 1.)

Plaintiff alleges that “FSR’s routinely
late, incorrect and regularly insufficient responses and refusal to provide the
necessary information as well as the [Association, acting through its Board of
Directors’] refusal to make any efforts to further FSR’s provision of said
information were borne of their conspiracy to deny Plaintiff the ability to
obtain its Final Public Report (‘White Report’) approving Phase 2 (the
‘Conspiracy’).” (Compl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he HOA Board’s
participation in this Conspiracy was motivated by a grudge that the then
Treasurer of the HOA, who was also a HOA Board member for most of the relevant
events, held against Plaintiff. FSR sought to delay final approval of Phase 2
in order to retain its position as property manager over [the Property] despite
FSR’s manifest incompetence and gross mismanagement in that role. FSR was aware
that once Plaintiff obtained final approval of Phase 2, Plaintiff would have
significantly increased voting power in the [Association, acting through its
Board of Directors] by virtue of its ownership of the Phase 2 units, and thus
Plaintiff would seek to terminate FSR’s contract. Moreover, FSR was aware that
its cooperation with Plaintiff could spotlight both FSR’s pervasively flawed
record-keeping and the degree to which FSR’s mismanagement had financially
hobbled the Property and damaged the Property’s owners. Thus, it was in FSR’s
own interest to wrongfully delay and prevent any response to the Notice.”
(Compl., ¶ 3.) 
            The Association now
moves for “an
order compelling the parties to arbitrate the claims subject of the
above-captioned action and staying the above-captioned action’s proceedings
until completion of the arbitration proceedings.” Firstservice
Residential of California, LLC joins in the motion. The motion is
unopposed.  
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration, the moving
party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)   
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v.
Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the liberal
federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving
interstate commerce.” (9
U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
The Association attaches as Exhibit 1 to the
motion the “Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of 388” (the
“CC&R”). As an initial matter, the Association does not appear to provide
any declaration authenticating the CC&R. However, the Court notes that “in the
context of a petition to compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the
normal procedures of document authentication.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical
Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,
1058 [internal quotations omitted].) In Espejo, the Court of
Appeal noted that “the Condee court
concluded that by attaching a copy of the agreement to its petition, defendants
had satisfied their initial burden of establishing the existence of an
arbitration agreement.” (Ibid.,
citing Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) 
The Association notes that the CC&R was
recorded on July 18, 2019. (Mot., Ex. 1.) Article I,
Section 6 of the CC&R defines the “Association” as “388 Owners
Association.” (Mot., Ex. 1, p. 2.) In addition, Article
I, Section 21 defines “Declarant” as “245 Los Robles, LLC.” (Mot., Ex. 1,
p. 4.) Article XXIX of the CC&R governs the “Resolution of Disputes.” (Mot.,
Ex. 1, p. 64.) Section 1 of Article XXIX provides
as follows: 
 
“Section 1.      Disputes.  IF ANY DISPUTE SHOULD ARISE BETWEEN THE
ASSOCIATION AND/OR AN OWNER OR OWNERS ON THE ONE PART (‘CLAIMANT’) AND THE
DECLARANT, OR ANY OFFICER, DIRECTOR, MANAGER, SHAREHOLDER, PARTNER, MEMBER,
EMPLOYER, CONTRACTOR, SUBCONTRACTOR, MATERIAL SUPPLIER, DESIGN PROFESSIONALS,
PROPERTY MANAGER, EMPLOYEE, OR AGENT OF THE DECLARANT ON THE OTHER PART
(HEREAFTER COLLECTIVELY THE ‘DECLARANT GROUP’) WHETHER THE DISPUTE ARISES UNDER
THE DECLARATION OF ANY OTHER GOVERNING DOCUMENT, OR RELATING TO ANY CLAIM OF
DEFECTS IN CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT OR ANY INDIVIDUAL, OR GROUP OF
INDIVIDUAL CONDOMINIUMS, OR FOR BREACH OF ALLEGED DUTY OF GOOD FAITH AND FAIR
DEALING, NEGLIGENT MISREPRESENTATION, LATENT OR PATENT DEFECTS, NEGLIGENCE, NON-DISCLOSURE,
FRAUD, BREACH OF CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE (A ‘DISPUTE’), THE DISPUTE SHALL BE
RESOLVED IN THE MANNER PROVIDED IN THIS ARTICLE XXIX WHICH PROVIDES FOR
MEDIATION, ARBITRATION AND WAIVERS OF THE RIGHT TO LITIGATE AND A JURY TRIAL.” (Mot.,
Ex. 1, p. 64.)
As
noted by the Association, Section 4(G) of Article XXIX
concerns “Initiation of Arbitration,” and provides that “[i]f the Claim is not
resolved through mediation, either party may initiate arbitration proceedings
as provided in Section 5 of this Article XXIX
below.” (Mot., Ex. 1, p. 67.) Section 5 of Article XXIX
concerns “Mandatory Binding Arbitration” and provides as follows: 
 
“Section 5.      Mandatory
Binding Arbitration.     Before any
Claimant institutes arbitration proceedings as provided in this Section 5, the Claimant shall follow the procedures
set forth in Sections, 2, 3 and 4 of this Article XXIX (if the Claim involves a
Construction Defect Claim) and if the Dispute involves non-construction
defect Claims, Owner shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 4 of this Article XXIX. The mandatory
arbitration procedures below shall apply to all Claims between Declarant and a
Claimant and all Claims between Declarant and Association which are not
resolved through such procedures (except Claims under any Limited Warranty
which are governed by the Limited Warranty.) In order to effectuate the
obligation to resolve all post-closing Claims by binding arbitration, Declarant
or any Owner may petition the Superior Court of the County to order that the
Claims be resolved by arbitration pursuant to the provisions set forth in this Section 5 and the court shall order Declarant, and the
Claimant to arbitrate the Claims and all controversies related to the Claim
even if Declarant or the Claimant join their claims with other claimants
utilizing different dispute resolution procedures.” (Mot, Ex. 1, p. 67,
emphasis added.)  
 
Section
4
of Article XXIX concerns “Mediation,” and provides as follows: 
 
“Section 4.      Mediation.       After complying with the non-adversarial
procedures set forth in Sections 1 and 2 of this
Article XXIX above, if applicable, Declarant and Claimant shall, in good faith,
attempt to resolve any Claim by mediation in accordance with this Section 4. If a Claimant and Declarant are unable to
resolve a Construction Defect Claim by the procedures set forth in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article XXIX above, as
applicable, or if Claimant and Declarant are unable to resolve any other Claim,
the parties also agree to submit the matter to mediation in accordance with the
procedures set forth below. The mediation shall be conducted by a single
mediator employed or engaged by Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services
(“JAMS”) pursuant to its then current rules (“JAMS Rules”). The mediation shall
be held in the County or such other place as is mutually acceptable to the
parties. Declarant shall have the right to include other persons or entities,
including insurance carrier representatives in the mediation proceedings. The
mediation shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth
below.”  (Mot, Ex. 1, p. 66.) 
As
an initial matter, in the “Conclusion” section of the instant motion, the
Association asserts that the Court should “compel Plaintiff’s claims against it
to mediation and, if necessary, binding arbitration pursuant to the
terms of the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of 388, and
stay the proceedings pending the outcome of that mediation and
arbitration, if necessary.” (Mot. at p. 10:15-18, emphasis added.) However, the
Association’s notice of motion does not state that the Association moves to
compel Plaintiff’s claims against it to mediation. Rather, as set forth above, the
Association moves “for an order compelling the parties to arbitrate the
claims subject of the above-captioned action and staying the above-captioned
action’s proceedings until completion of the arbitration proceedings.”
(Mot. at p. 2:5-7, emphasis added.) The Court notes that “¿[a] notice of motion must state in
the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for
issuance of the order.¿” (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subd¿. (a).)[2]
In
addition, as set forth above, Section 5 of Article XXIX
provides, inter alia, that “[b]efore any Claimant institutes arbitration
proceedings as provided in this Section 5, the
Claimant shall follow the procedures set forth in Sections, 2, 3 and 4 of this
Article XXIX (if the Claim involves a Construction Defect Claim) and if the
Dispute involves non-construction defect Claims, Owner shall follow the
procedures set forth in Section 4 of this Article
XXIX. The mandatory arbitration procedures below shall apply to all Claims
between Declarant and a Claimant and all Claims between Declarant and Association
which are not resolved through such procedures (except Claims under any
Limited Warranty which are governed by the Limited Warranty.)…” (Mot, Ex. 1, p.
67, emphasis added.) In addition, as discussed, Section
4(G) of Article XXIX provides that “[i]f the Claim is not resolved through
mediation, either party may initiate arbitration proceedings as provided in Section 5 of this Article XXIX below.” (Mot, Ex. 1, p.
67.) Here, the Association does not appear to provide any evidence that
Plaintiff’s claims against the Association were not resolved through the
mediation procedures set forth in Section 4 of Article
XXIX of the CC&R. 
In
light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that the Association has shown
that the Section 5 “Mandatory Binding Arbitration” provision of the CC&R
applies to Plaintiff’s claims in this action such that the Court should compel
arbitration.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Association’s
motion to compel arbitration is denied without prejudice. 
The
Association is ordered to provide notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  July 30, 2024                                  
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


