  Case Number:  22AHCV00114    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VIOLETA MARTIN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DONALD
   RANCE WELCH, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00114
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 3,
   2024



 
Plaintiff Violeta Martin (“Plaintiff”) seeks
an order deeming admitted the matters specified in Requests for Admissions, Set
One propounded on defendant Welch Law & Associates (“Defendant”)
(incorrectly referred to as “Welch & Associates” in this motion) on
September 22, 2023. Plaintiff also seeks an order imposing sanctions in the
amount of $218.91 for its reasonable expenses incurred in making this motion. 
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) 
 
The proof of service for the discovery
requests shows that they were served on Chris Prussak, who recently admitted in
a declaration in a pending motion to be relieved as counsel that he was never
retained by Defendant. In light of the circumstances, the Court finds that
Defendant was not properly served with the requests for admission. The motion
is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 3rd
day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 