 Case Number:  23STCP01687    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTIONS (2) TO COMPEL
COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA
 
Date:               9/19/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Mark Williams v.
Noreen McClendon (23STCP01687)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Mark Williams’ Motion to Compel Nonparty
FirstLegal to Comply with Plaintiff Subpoena is DENIED. 
 
Petitioner Mark Williams’ Motion to Compel Nonparty Los
Angeles Unified School District to Comply with Plaintiff Subpoena is DENIED. 
 
I.                  
MOTION TO COMPEL NONPARTY FIRSTLEGAL TO COMPLY
WITH SUBPOENA
 
Petitioner Mark Williams moves to compel compliance with a
subpoena duces tecum directed to FirstLegal, wherein petitioner requested the deposition
transcript of Robin Cannon, former president of Concerned Citizens of South
Central Los Angeles, taken in a separate action. 
 
The motion reflects that plaintiff did not serve the
subpoena personally. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987 states, in relevant part: “[T]he
service of a subpoena is made by delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its
substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering to the witness at the
same time, if demanded by him or her, the fees to which he or she is entitled
for travel to and from the place designated, and one day’s attendance there.”
(CCP § 1987(a).) 
 
The proof of service attached to the motion states that the
subpoena was served electronically to FirstLegal’s Custodian of Records. The
subpoena was not served “to the witness personally,” as is required by CCP §
1987(a). (See also CCP § 2020.220(c) [providing for personal service to
render deposition subpoena effective].) FirstLegal thus was under no obligation
to comply with the subpoena.
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 
II.               
MOTION TO COMPEL NONPARTY LOS ANGELES UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENA
 
Petitioner Mark Williams moves to compel compliance with a
subpoena duces tecum directed to Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”),
wherein petitioner requested the technical evaluation of the Carver Middle
School Artificial Turf Soccer Field Joint Use Agreement between the Los Angeles
School District and Concerned Citizens of South Central Los Angeles.  
As a preliminary matter, LAUSD’s request for judicial notice
is DENIED as “unnecessary to the resolution” of the issues before the Court. (Martinez
v. San Diego County Credit Union (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1075.) 
 
The motion reflects that plaintiff did not serve the
subpoena personally. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987 states, in relevant part:
“[T]he service of a subpoena is made by delivering a copy, or a ticket
containing its substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering to the
witness at the same time, if demanded by him or her, the fees to which he or
she is entitled for travel to and from the place designated, and one day’s
attendance there.” (CCP § 1987(a).) 
 
The proof of service attached to the motion states that the
subpoena was served electronically to LAUSD’s counsel. The subpoena was not
served “to the witness personally,” as is required by CCP § 1987(a). (See
also CCP § 2020.220(c) [providing for personal service to render deposition
subpoena effective].) LAUSD thus was under no obligation to comply with the
subpoena.  
 
Moreover, petitioner does not dispute LAUSD’s assertion that
the requested technical evaluation is the result of an investigation by the
Inspector General. Education Code § 35401(c) provides: “Every investigation,
including, but not limited to, all investigative files and work-product, shall
be kept confidential, except that the inspector general may issue any report of
an investigation that has been substantiated, keeping confidential the identity
of the individual or individuals involved, or release any findings resulting
from an investigation conducted pursuant to this article that is deemed
necessary to serve the interests of the district.” The statute expressly
provides that every investigation, including the underlying investigative
files, are confidential. Therefore, plaintiff does not have a right to discover
the report. (See Office of Inspector General v. Superior Court (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 695, 705 [report held as confidential under statute is not
subject to disclosure under California Public Records Act].) While the statute
provides that the Inspector General may issue and release any report of an
investigation, the statute does not require the Inspector General to do so. LAUSD
cannot produce any investigative report that is within the discretion of the
Inspector General to produce. 
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 