  Case Number:  21STCV13141    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR ORDER TO
TERMINATE LEASE AGREEMENT
 
Date:               9/19/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Sound Equity High Income Debt
Fund v. Top Flight Investments LLC, et al. (21STCV13141)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:      
 
Receiver Pacific Crest Realty Advisors, LLC’s Amended Motion
for Order to Terminate Lease Agreement is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
Receiver moves for an order terminating the lease currently
in effect at the Receivership property located at 816/818 N Mansfield Avenue,
Los Angeles, California 90038 (“Property”). The half of the Property located at
816 N. Mansfield Avenue is occupied by Rafael and Jamie Quezada (“Tenants”)
under a month-to-month lease that began as a one-year lease on October 12, 2001
(“Lease”). (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. A.) 
 
On January 25, 2024, the Court approved the sale of the
Property. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. B.) However, the proposed sale
was contingent on vacancy of the Tenants prior to close of escrow.
(Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 7.) Despite Receiver’s attempts to obtain an agreement
from Tenants to vacate the property, Receiver has been unsuccessful. (Constantinescu
Decl. ¶¶ 6, 7.) Receiver thus has been unable to complete the sale of the
Property. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 7.) Receiver contends that the Lease is not commercially
reasonable or beneficial to the operation of the Receivership Estate because
Tenants’ monthly rent is 65% below the market rate and Tenants are preventing a
bona fide sale of the Property. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶¶ 4, 9.) The Property is
the sole unsold property remaining in the Receivership Estate. (Constantinescu
Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
On 9/13/24, Tenants filed substitution of attorney forms,
designating counsel to represent them. On 9/16/24, Tenants, through their
counsel, served and filed an opposition. Based on the hearing date of 9/19/24,
the deadline to serve and file the opposition was 9/6/24, nine court days
before the hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).) Because the opposition was served only
three court days before the hearing, the Court exercises its discretion and
declines to consider the opposition. (Rule of Court 3.1300(d) [“No paper may be
rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely submitted for filing. If
the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the
minutes or order must so indicate”].) 
 
Even if the Court considers the opposition, it would be
unavailing. Pursuant to the Order Appointing Equity Receiver and Preliminary
Injunction entered on 3/17/22, Receiver is authorized to “negotiate, make,
enter into, or modify contracts or agreements affecting any part or all of the
Receivership Estate including, without limitation, any and all leases affecting
the Receivership Estate, and to immediately terminate any existing contract,
agreement or instrument which is not deemed commercially reasonable or
beneficial in the Receiver’s sole opinion to the operation of the Receivership
Estate.” (3/17/22 Receiver Order ¶ 3(n).) Receiver is also entitled to bring
and prosecute all proper actions for the protection of the Receivership Estate
and the recovery of possession of the Receivership Estate. (3/17/22 Receiver
Order ¶ 3(d).)
 
Tenants do not dispute Receiver’s ability to bring a motion
to seek the termination of their Lease under the Receiver Order. Rather,
Tenants argue that the Receiver Order does not “supersede tenant protections
under California law and Los Angeles housing ordinances.” (Opp. at 5:23-24.)
Tenants’ arguments are without merit. 
 
Tenants assert that the property located at 818 N. Mansfield
Avenue is uninhabitable due to mold. Tenants reside at 816 N. Mansfeld, not 818
N. Mansfield. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. A.) In any event, Tenants do
not persuasively explain how any habitability concerns at the Property defeat
Receiver’s ability to seek termination of the Lease. Tenants argue that
Receiver has been unable to sell the Property due to substandard conditions the
Receiver has purportedly refused to rectify. (Opp.at 6:2-4.) However, the
Purchase and Sale Agreement, as amended, which the Court approved on 1/25/24,
provided for the buyer to purchase the Property “as-is, where is, with all
faults and without recourse,” with the buyer having been advised to have a
complete inspection with respect to habitability matters. (Constantinescu Reply
Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. C at ¶ 1.) The buyer is thus undaunted by any habitability
concerns. However, the buyer refuses to purchase the Property subject to any
lease, and Tenants refuse to vacate the Property; it is thus the fault of
Tenants that the sale has not closed. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Tenants also argue that termination of the Lease violates
the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (“LARSO”) and California Tenant
Protection Act, asserting that sale of the property does not constitute just
cause. Both the LARSO and the California Tenant Protection Act allow the
landlord in good faith to recover possession of the rental unit “to remove the
rental unit permanently from rental housing use.” (LAMC § 151.09.A.10(b); Civ.
Code § 1946.2(b)(2)(B).) Tenants do not deny that Receiver has obtained an
order from the Los Angeles Housing Department removing the Property from the
Los Angeles rental stock. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 8; Constantinescu Reply Decl.
¶ 4 & Ex. A.) Receiver has thus removed the Property from rental housing
use, thus constituting just cause to seek the termination of the Lease as a
prerequisite to evicting Tenants. 
 
Tenants also argue that removal of the Property from the
housing stock is retaliatory. (Opp. at 2:24-3:2.) To the extent that such claim
of retaliation is based on complaints about mold in the portion of the Property
located at 818 N. Mansfield, Tenants provide no evidence that they ever made
any complaints to Receiver. “An attorney's argument in
pleadings is not evidence.” (Hebberd-Kulow Enterprises, Inc. v. Kelomar,
Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 272, 283.) In contrast, based on the facts
stated above, Receiver persuasively establishes that the reason for its request
to Los Angeles Housing Authority to remove the Property from the rental stock
is to facilitate the termination of the Lease and purchase of the Property. 

 
Tenants contend that Receiver has not complied with the
Ellis Act because Receiver has not provided proper notice or relocation
assistance. With respect to relocation assistance, the Los Angeles Housing
Department has already determined that Tenants are entitled to $25,700.
(Constantinescu Reply Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. A.) Tenants do not explain how the
calculated relocation assistance is miscalculated under LAMC § 151.09.G, which
Tenants cite as a basis for opposing Receiver’s motion. (See Opp. at
9:12-17.) Tenants state that, for long-term tenants who are 62 years of age or
older, the current required payment is $22,950 for tenants in units with fewer
than three habitable room and $27,200 for units with three or more habitable
rooms, plus an additional $2,150 for low-income households. (Opp. at 9:18-23.) LAMC
§ 151.09.G makes no reference to the number of rooms. Even if some other
statute provides for an increase in relocation assistance based on the number
of rooms or income level, Tenants provide no evidence on how many habitable rooms
there are in the part of the Property where they reside, or whether they are
low-income. Furthermore, to the extent that Tenants are entitled to $29,350
($27,200 three or more habitable rooms + $2,150 for low-income households), Receiver
previously offered Tenants $80,000 on June 22, 2024 to vacate the Property
within a 60- to 90-day period. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 10.) Therefore, Tenants
cannot plausibly claim that the amount of relocation assistance offered by
Receiver is insufficient.  
 
With respect to notice, Tenants refer to a “120-day Notice
to Quit and Termination of Tenancy, informing the tenants of the property
owner’s intent to withdraw the property from the rental market under the Ellis
Act.” (Opp. at 2:24-26.) Absent Tenants’ baseless claim of retaliation, Tenants
appear to concede that, at best, the Ellis Act may provide them with 120 days
from July 19, 2024 to vacate their unit. (Opp. at 2:26-27.) Receiver does not
dispute Tenants’ assertions regarding timing. (See LAMC § 151.23(B) [“The
date on which the rental units are to be withdrawn from rental housing use
shall be at least 120 days from the date of the delivery to the Department in
person or by first-class mail of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw”].) Accordingly,
subject to hearing argument from the parties during the hearing, the Court will
order termination of the lease as of Saturday, November 16, 2024, which is 120
days from July 19, 2024. 
 
Tenants also assert that termination of the Lease
“potentially” violates California’s anti-displacement law under Government Code
§ 66300(d). (Opp. at 10:10-13.) That statutory provision states: “The
Department of Housing and Community Development shall determine those cities
and counties in this state that are affected cities and affected counties, in
accordance with subdivision (a) by June 30, 2020. The department may update the
list of affected cities and affected counties once on or after January 1, 2021,
and once on or after January 1, 2025, to account for changes in urbanized areas
or urban clusters due to new data obtained from the 2020 census. The
department’s determination shall remain valid until January 1, 2030.” It is
unclear how this statute supports Tenants’ position regarding their purported
right to continue residing at the Property. 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court finds any opposition by
Tenants to the termination of the Lease would be without merit. The Receiver
having persuasively established that termination of the Lease is commercially
reasonable and beneficial in the Receiver’s sole opinion to the operation of
the Receivership Estate, the motion is GRANTED IN PART. 