 Case Number:  24STCV11914    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 CAROLINE KUO, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 BMW
  OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and DOES 1
  through 10, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV11914
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Date: December 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff Caroline Kuo (“Plaintiff”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
BMW of North America, LLC (“Defendant”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This is a lemon-law action. On May
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendant and
Does 1 through 10 alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty; and (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2. 
 
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to compel further responses to requests for production of
documents, set one (“RFPs”) (the “Motion”). Defendant filed an opposition (the
“Opposition”) on December 6, 2024. On December 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply (the “Reply”).      
 
TIMELINESS
            Plaintiff’s
Reply was due on December 12, 2024—five court days before the hearing. (Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) § 1005) Plaintiff filed the Reply on December 13, 2024. As there is no
apparent prejudice to the parties; however, the Court declines to deny the
Motion on this ground and will consider the Motion on its merits. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
            California law requires a responding
party to respond to each request for production of documents with either a
statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply, or an objection to the demand.  (Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  
¿ 
CCP section 2031.310 subdivision (a) states
that on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if: (1) a
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection
in the response is without merit or too general. 
 
            Plaintiff seeks to compel further
response to RFPs, set one, Nos. 1, 3, 7-9, 11, 13, 14, 15-21, 22-29, 30 and 31.
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s responses consist of boilerplate objections
and inadequate responses and that further production is necessary. Defendant
argues that it has produced all the responsive documents within its possession.

            
            RFPs Nos. 1, 3, 9, 11 and 13-29
            Upon review of the responses to the
RFPs, in response to RFPs Nos 1, 3, 9, 11, and 13-29, Defendant responded with both
objections and a statement of compliance. (See, e.g., Plaintiff Separate
Statement, p. 4:22-27.) Plaintiff concedes that Defendant has produced
responsive documents but argues that “given the privilege-based objections
asserted by BMW, Plaintiff is unable to determine which, if any, responsive
materials are being withheld on the basis of privilege given the current
response as written. (See, e.g. Plaintiff Separate Statement, p. 10:23-26.)

 
RFPs No. 7
In response to RFP No. 7, Defendant
responds: “BMW NA is unable to comply with this request. BMW NA has made a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with this request
and has no documents responsive to this request and is unaware of whether
responsive documents exist or have ever existed.” (Plaintiff Separate
Statement, p. 13:14-17.) 
 
RFPs No. 8
RFP No. 8 seeks “all DOCUMENTS, including
recalls, technical service bulletins, and dealer advisories that were issued
for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (Plaintiff Separate Statement, p. 14:21-24.) 
 
Defendant objects based on the request
being vague, ambiguous, overly broad, not relevant to the subject matter of
this litigation and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Plaintiff Separate Statement, p. 14:26-15:3.) Defendant further
responds that “if Plaintiff can identify the Recall(s), technical service
bulletin(s), and/or dealer advisory(ies) that are being sought, Responding
Party will produce those Recall(s), technical service bulletin(s), and/or
dealer advisory(ies).” (Plaintiff Separate Statement, p. 15:9-11.) 
 
RFPs Nos. 30-31
RFP No. 30 seeks “All DOCUMENTS, in the
form of a list or compilation, of other Customer Complaints in YOUR
electronically stored information of database(s) that are SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR
to complaints made by Plaintiff with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE in other
2018 BMW X5 vehicles.” (Plaintiff Separate Statement, p. 47:19-22.) 
 
RFP No. 31 seeks “All DOCUMENTS that refer
to, reflect, or relate to any Field Service Action issued, or in the process of
being issued, in response to complaints experienced by Plaintiff as described
in Defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the line items of the repair
orders created at Defendant’s authorized repair facility. (Plaintiff Separate
Statement, p. 50:9-12.)
 
            Defendant responds with
objection-only responses to both RFPs Nos. 30 and 31. (Plaintiff Separate
Statement, pp. 48:5-24, 50:14-51:3) Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not
entitled to the information sought in these requests because they seek
information involving issues and consumers which are separate from the facts
and circumstances of this case. (Opp. pp. 3:22-6:6)
 
            The Court finds that no further
response is required as to RFP Nos. 1, 3, 7-9, 11, and 13-29, except as
described below in relation to a privilege log. As to RFPs Nos. 1, 3, 9, 11,
and 13-29, Defendant has produced responsive documents in accordance with the
statement of compliance. As to RFP No. 7, Defendant has responded with a
Code-compliant representation of inability to comply after a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry. (CCP § 2031.230) 
 
As to RFP No. 8, Defendant has stated that
it will produce the responsive documents if Plaintiff can identify the
documents sought with more particularity. The Court finds that Defendant is
able to respond to this request without further clarification from Plaintiff
and orders that Defendant respond fully to Request No. 8 by producing the
responsive documents. 
 
As to RFP Nos. 30, and 31, Plaintiff seeks
all documents relating to customer complaints that are ‘substantially similar’
to the complaints made by Plaintiff and all documents that relate to any Field
Service Action issued in response to the same complaints experienced by
Plaintiff. Defendant’s objections based on the requests being overbroad, vague,
and ambiguous have some merit. 
 
Whether the alleged defects in Plaintiff’s
vehicle were present in other vehicles of the same year, make, and model is
relevant to establish the Defendant's knowledge of the defect. It also speaks
to Defendant's capacity to rectify the defect and whether Defendant conducted
reasonable investigations into the possibility of curing the defect. 
 
Thus, the Court
will GRANT Plaintiff’s request to compel further responses to RFPs Nos. 30 and
31, but will limit the scope to the defects identified in Plaintiff's Complaint
and to other 2018 BMW X5 vehicles. 

 
To the extent that Defendant is
withholding additional responsive documents that are subject to the
attorney-client or attorney work product privileges, it must produce a detailed
privilege log, Defendant has not indicated which specific documents are
privileged.¿A privilege log must identify what documents are being withheld and
enough information to support a prima facie claim of privilege. (CCP §
2031.240(b)(1-2), [“(b) If the responding party objects to the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the
response shall do both of the following: (1) Identify with particularity any
document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling
within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.
(2) Set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the
objection. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular
privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the
information sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.”].) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant must provide a
privilege log to identify any documents which are being withheld due to a
claimed privilege, and Defendant should provide enough information to
demonstrate that the document is protected by attorney-client privilege/work
product. 
 
 
 
 
            Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Production is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part as follows: 
The Motion is DENIED as to RFP Nos. 1, 3,
7, 9, 11, and 13-29.  
The Motion is GRANTED as to RFP No. 8.  As to RFP Nos. 30 and 31, the Motion is
GRANTED but limited to the defects identified in Plaintiff's Complaint and to
other 2018 BMW X5 vehicles. 
            Defendant is also ordered to provide
a privilege log identifying any documents that are being withheld based on
attorney-client privilege/work product.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



