 Case Number:  24STCV02587    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 4E CAPITAL LP, a Canadian Limited
  Partnership; PHARM CAPITAL, LLC, an Ohio limited liability company; and
  ALEXEY MIKHAYLOV, an individual, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PACIFIC CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS GROUP,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; MERIDIAN VIA REAL, LLC, a Delaware limited
  liability company; ZEVO DRIVE HOLDINGS, LLC, a California limited liability
  company; OMAR MANGALJI, an individual; MICHAEL STEINBERG, an individual;
  DAVID MEHLMAN, an individual; OBM PDG, LLC, a California limited liability
  company; VIA REAL GROUP, LLC, a California limited liability company; OBM
  Holdings LLC, a California limited liability company; THE INCEPTION
  COMPANIES, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; and DOES 1-10,, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV02587
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRERS OF DEFENDANTS MERIDIAN VIA
  REAL, ZEVO DRIVE HOLDINGS LLC, OMAR MANGALJ, MICHAEL STEINBERG, DAVID
  MEHLMAN, VIA REAL GROUP LLC, OBM HOLDINGS LLC, AND THE INCEPTION COMPANIES
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE OF DEFENDANTS
  PACIFIC CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS, OBM PDG, & VIA REAL GROUP
 
 
Date: December 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendants Meridian Via Real, LLC,
Zevo Drive Holdings LLC, Omar Mangalji (Mangalji”), Michael Steinberg
(“Steinberg”), David Mehlman (“Mehlman”), Via Real Group LLC, OBM Holdings LLC,
and The Inception Companies (“Inception”) (collectively, “Lender Defendants”). Defendants Pacific Consolidated Holdings Group, Inc.
(“PCHG”), OBM PDG, LLC, and Via Real Group, LLC (collectively, “PCH
Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
4E Capital LP, Pharm Capital, LLC, and Alexey Mikhaylov (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
complaint against Lender Defendants and PCH Defendants. Plaintiffs allege they extended
$9.75 million in loans to PCHG on which PCHG has since defaulted. The FAC also
alleges, in relevant part, that PCHG agreed to assign various promissory notes
due to OBM PDG to Plaintiffs. The operative
first amended complaint, (the “FAC”), filed on June 26, 2024, allege twenty-six
causes of action, including claims for breach of contract, fraudulent
conveyances, larceny, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, accounting and
declaratory relief. 
 
            On August 29, 2024, Lender
Defendants filed a demurrer to the FAC’s 6th through 26th
causes of action (the “Lender Demurrer”). Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
Lender Demurrer on December 6, 2024 (“Opposition to Lender
Demurrer”) and Lender Defendants replied on December 12, 2024 (“Reply to Opposition
to Lender Demurrer”). 
 
            Also on August 29, 2024, PCH
Defendants filed a demurrer to the FAC’s 16th and 24th
causes of action (the “PCH Demurrer”) and a motion to strike (the “Motion to
Strike”). Plaintiffs filed oppositions to both the PCH Demurrer (“Opposition to
PCH Demurrer”) and the Motion to Strike (“Opposition to Motion to Strike”) on
December 6, 2024. On December 12, 2024, PCH Defendants filed a reply
to the Opposition to PCH Demurrer (“Reply to Opposition to PCH Demurrer”) and a
reply to the Motion to Strike (“Reply to Motion to Strike”). 
 
            The Court addresses each motion in
turn. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The parties satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. 
 
DEMURRER LEGAL
STANDARD
            A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
 
To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts needed to establish
each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212,
superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
 
In testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) Courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other
grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th
1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)  
 
A demurrer for uncertainty lies where the
pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10,
subd. (f).)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved on
other grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations
question].) 
 
Where a complaint is sufficient to state a
cause of action and to apprise a defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not
properly subject to a special demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see
also Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special
demurrer [for uncertainty] should be overruled where the allegations of the
complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which
he is to meet”].) 
 


 
LENDER DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER 
Sixth, Eighth,
Tenth and Twelfth Causes of Action – Fraudulent Conveyance
            In
California, a fraudulent conveyance involves “a transfer by the debtor of
property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor
from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Filip v. Bucurenciu
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 829 (Filip).) A transfer under the Uniform
Voidable Transactions Act (“UVTA”) is voidable as to a creditor if the debtor
made the transfer with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any creditor
of the debtor. (Civil Code “Civ. Code”, § 3439.04, subd. (a); Filip, supra,
at p. 829.) 
 
To find a
transfer voidable as to a creditor, the transfer by the debtor must be made
with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud the creditor of the debtor.
(Civ. Code, § 3439.04, subd. (a).) Some factors that may be considered in
determining actual intent are: (1) whether the transfer or obligation was to an
insider; (2) whether the debtor retained possession or control of the property
transferred after the transfer; (3) whether the transfer or obligation was
disclosed or concealed; (4) whether before the transfer was made or obligation
was incurred, the debtor had been sued or threatened with suit; (5) whether the
transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets; (6) whether the debtor
absconded; (7) whether the debtor removed or concealed assets; (8) whether the
value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to
the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred;
(9) whether the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the
transfer was made or the obligation was incurred; (10) whether the transfer
occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt was incurred; and
(11) whether the debtor transferred the essential assets of the business to a
lienor that transferred the assets to an insider of the debtor. (Civ. Code, § 3439.04, subd. (b).)  
 
A transfer is
also voidable as to a creditor whose claim arose before the transfer was made
if the debtor made the transfer without receiving a reasonably equivalent value
in exchange for the transfer and the debtor was insolvent at that time or
became insolvent as a result of the transfer or obligation. (Civ. Code, §
3439.05, subd. (a).) A debtor is considered insolvent if the sum of the
debtor’s debts is greater than the sum of the debtor’s assets. (Civ. Code, §
3439.02, subd. (a).) A debtor is presumed to be insolvent if a debtor is
generally not paying the debtor’s debts as they become due. (Civ. Code, §
3439.02, subd. (b).) The creditor making a claim for relief under section
3439.04 or 3435.05 has the burden of proving the elements of the claim for relief
by a preponderance of the evidence. (Civ. Code, §§ 3439.04, subd. (c), 3439.05,
subd. (b).) 
 
A “debtor” is a
person that is liable on a claim. (Civ. Code, § 3439.01, subd. (e).)  A
“claim” means a right to payment, whether or not it has been reduced to
judgment. (Civ. Code, § 3439.01, subd. (b).) 
 
The Lender
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ sixth, eighth, tenth and twelfth causes of
action for fraudulent conveyance under Civil Code sections 3439.04, 3439.05 and
the common law are impermissibly vague. They argue that the allegations: (1) fail
to identify the specific conveyances alleged to be fraudulent; (2) improperly
group all the Lender Defendants together without specifying their individual
roles in the conveyances; and (3) do not provide factual support demonstrating
actual intent to defraud. (Lender Demurrer, pp. 4:12-5:26.) The Lender Defendants
further argue that the fraudulent
conveyance causes of action fail as to Defendants Mangalji, Steinberg and
Mehlman because they are not “debtors” within the meaning of the UVTA. (Lender
Demurrer, p. 6:1-10.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
that these causes of action are pled with the requisite particularity for
fraudulent intent because they have alleged multiple “badges of fraud” as
stated in Civ. Code, section 3439.04.
(Opp. to Lender Demurrer, pp. 3:3-4:15.) 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiffs have
stated sufficient facts to state these causes of action. Upon review of the
FAC, Plaintiffs have alleged the specific allegedly fraudulent transfers and
the Lender Defendants’ roles in those conveyances. (FAC ¶¶ 80-95, 127-131,
133.)  Specific evidence of a defendant’s intent is inevitably not fully available to
a plaintiff at the demurrer stage prior to discovery. Accordingly, whether a
conveyance was indeed made with fraudulent intent requires an evidentiary
finding and is thus more proper on summary judgment. (See Filip, supra, 129 Cal.App.4th at 834.) 
 
            Thus, the Lender Defendants’ Demurrer
to the sixth, eighth, tenth and
twelfth causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Seventh, Ninth, Eleventh
and Thirteenth Causes of Action – Aiding and Abetting Fraudulent Conveyance
(UVTA) 
            The
Lender Defendants argue that the FAC’s seventh, ninth, eleventh and thirteenth
causes of action fail to state a claim because Plaintiffs have not adequately
alleged fraudulent conveyances and have not alleged that the Lender Defendants
had knowledge of, or substantially assisted in, any fraudulent transfers. (Lender
Demurrer, pp. 6:13-7:10.) 
 
            For
the same reasons discussed above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have stated
sufficient facts to state a cause of action for aiding and abetting fraudulent
conveyances in the seventh, ninth, eleventh and thirteenth causes of action. Plaintiffs
have sufficiently alleged fraudulent conveyance and have adequately pled facts of
the Lender Defendants’ involvement in those transfers. (FAC ¶¶ 80-95,
127-131, 133.) 
 
            Thus, the Lender
Defendants’ Demurrer to the seventh, ninth,
eleventh and thirteenth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Causes of Action – Fraudulent Conveyance (Common Law), Aiding and Abetting
Fraudulent Conveyance (Common Law). 
 
            Plaintiffs
have stated sufficient facts to state a cause of action for fraudulent
conveyance and aiding and abetting fraudulent conveyances. Further, Plaintiffs
are not precluded from bringing their claims under both the UVTA and the common
law. (Berger v. Varum, (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th 1013, 1019 [finding that plaintiff could
bring both UVTA and common law claims for fraudulent conveyance on the ground
that the UVTA was intended to supplement common law, not replace it].) 
 
Sixteenth Cause of
Action – Larceny
            The
Lender Defendants argue that the FAC fails to state a cause of action under
Penal Code section 496 because Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts to
establish criminal intent or provide specific factual allegations regarding any
alleged unlawful taking or possession of Plaintiffs’ funds. (Lender Demurrer,
pp. 8:13-9:15.) 
 
            The
FAC alleges that Lender Defendants carried out the fraudulent conveyances “with
the intent to avoid payments to, and convert funds owing, to Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶
362.) Thus, the FAC sufficiently states that Lender Defendants did not
inadvertently fail to repay the loans, but rather deliberately diverted funds
to avoid repaying their debts. This type of fraudulent diversion is exactly the
kind of circumstance the California Supreme Court has held brings a commercial
dispute within the purview of Penal Code section 496. (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 361-362.) 
 
Thus, the Lender Defendants’ Demurrer to
the sixteenth cause of action is
OVERRULED.
 
Seventeenth and Eighteenth
Causes of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Abetting and Abetting Breach of
Fiduciary Duty 
            The FAC alleges
that PCHG was insolvent and that Mangalji, Mehlman, OBM Holdings and Steinberg
diverted funds that might have otherwise been used to satisfy the debt owed to
Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶¶ 367, 82, 93-94, 127-128, 131, 133.)  When a corporation is actually insolvent and its
directors have engaged in conduct that diverted, dissipated or unduly risked
corporate assets that might otherwise have been used to satisfy creditors’
claims, those corporate directors owe fiduciary duties to those creditors.  (Berg & Berg Enterprises, Inc. v.
Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1041.)
 
Thus, the Lender Defendants’ Demurrer to
the seventeenth and eighteenth causes
of action is OVERRULED.
 


 
Nineteenth, Twentieth,
Twenty-First, Twenty-Second and Twenty-Third Causes of Action – Fraudulent
Concealment, Fraudulent Misrepresentation, Promissory Fraud, Negligent
Misrepresentation
These causes of action relate to the 2021 loan
negotiations between Plaintiffs and PCHG and the 2022 loan and security
agreement negotiations.  (Compl. ¶¶ 395-546)
 
 In
order to state a cause of action for fraud based on concealment, the plaintiff
must allege that the defendant was under a duty to disclose certain material
facts to the plaintiff. (Jones v. Conoco Phillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.
App. 4th 1187, 1198) The FAC does not state that Mangalji or Inception owed
Plaintiffs a duty to disclose at the time of the negotiations. 
 
In addition, the only allegation in the
FAC about misrepresentations made by Mangalji, either fraudulent or negligent,
pertaining to the 2021 loan argument is that: “Mangalji, as chairman of the
board of PCH at the time, participated in, authorized, expressly or impliedly
ratified, and had full knowledge of, or should have known, that PCH, through
its authorized agents and officers, were concealing material information about
the state of the company’s financials.” (Compl. ¶441.) 
 
The only allegations in the FAC about
misrepresentations or promises made by Mangalji pertaining to the 2022 loan and
security agreement are similarly that Mangalji, through his role as chairman of
PCHG, knew or should have known that PCHG never intended to follow through on
its promises to execute the security documents. (Compl. ¶¶ 504, 531, 541) 
 
These allegations are insufficient to
state a misrepresentation or promissory fraud cause of action against Mangalji.
Plaintiffs have also not alleged any facts showing that Mangalji himself made
any fraudulent or negligent misrepresentations or promises to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs’
assertion that the misrepresentation claims are properly pled against Inception
because Mangalji owns Inception is likewise insufficient to state a cause of
action against Inception. 
 
Thus, the Lender Defendants’ Demurrer to
the nineteenth, twentieth,
twenty-first, twenty-second and twenty-third causes of action are
SUSTAINED, as to Defendants Mangalji and Inception, with thirty days leave to amend. 
 
PCH DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER 
Sixteenth Cause of
Action – Larceny
            The
PCH Defendants demur to the FAC’s sixteenth cause of action for larceny on the
ground that it does not allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (PCH Demurrer, pp. 6:4-7:10) As discussed in connection
with the Lender Defendants’ Demurrer above, Plaintiff has stated sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action for larceny. 
 
            Thus,
the PCH Defendants’ Demurrer to the sixteenth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Twenty-Fourth
Cause of Action – Accounting 
“An action for an accounting has two
elements: (1) “that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant
that requires an accounting” and (2) “that some balance is due the plaintiff
that can only be ascertained by an accounting.” [citations omitted] The action
carries with it an inherent limitation; an accounting action “is not available
where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that
can be made certain by calculation.”” (Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th
861, 869.) 
 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that they extended
$9.75 million in loans to PCHG that are due and owing. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs
argue that “An accounting is proper to see where the money that was supposed to
be used to pay Plaintiffs has gone.” (Opp. to PCH Defendants Demurrer, p.
10:8-9.) This is not one of the elements of a cause of action for an
accounting. Thus, because the amount that Plaintiffs have a right to recover
can be ascertained by calculation, they have not pled facts sufficient to state
a cause of action for accounting.  
 
Thus, PCH
Defendants Demurrer to the twenty-fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED, with thirty
days leave to amend.
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE 
The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subds.
(a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
For the purposes of a motion to strike
pursuant to CCP Sections 435 to 437, the term “pleading” generally means a
demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint, (CCP, § 435, subd. (a)), and
an immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient
claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported
by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (CCP., § 431.10, subds.
(b)(1)-(3), (c)). 
 
            PCH Defendants move to strike
certain portions of the FAC on the grounds that they contain irrelevant, false
or improper matters. Specifically, PCH Defendants move to strike several
general allegations, as well as allegations in the fifth and twenty-second
causes of action pertaining to a letter of intent and certain notes (the “PDG
Notes”) which Plaintiff alleges PCHG assigned to Plaintiff. (Mot. to Strike,
pp. 2-7.) In the Motion to Strike, PCH Defendants argue generally that contrary
to Plaintiff’s allegations in the FAC, the letter of intent did not assign the
PDG Notes to Plaintiffs. 
 
In analyzing a motion to strike,
California courts “accept as true the well-pleaded allegations” in the
challenged pleadings, as well as “well-pleaded allegations admitted in” the
responsive “answer.” (Atwell Island Water Dist. v. Atwell Island Water
District (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 624, 628 (Atwell); Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 [California courts “read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].) Accordingly, because the
Court must accept the allegations as true, and because the allegations are
relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims, the Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
ORDER
            The Lender Defendants’ Demurrer to
the FAC’s sixth through eighteenth causes of action is OVERRULED.
            The Lender Defendants’ Demurrer to the
FAC’s nineteenth through twenty-third causes of action is SUSTAINED, as to
Defendants Omar Mangalji and The Inception Company, with 30 days leave to
amend. 
 
            The PCH Defendants’ Demurrer to the
FAC’s sixteenth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
            The PCH Defendants’ Demurrer to the
FAC’s twenty-fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave to amend. 
The PCH Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



