  Case Number:  24STCV01210    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ALBERTO HERRERA
  HERNANDEZ, an individual; and HOWARD HERRERA, an individual, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
 OKSANA
  GERMAIN, an individual; PAUL GERMAIN, an individual; and DOES 1 THROUGH 20,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV01210
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO
  APPOINT NON-PARTY AS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST
 
Date: December 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Non-Party Gabriela
Herrera (“Mrs. Herrera”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None.

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is personal injury action arising from a
motor vehicle collision. On January 17, 2024, Plaintiffs Alberto Herrera
Hernandez and Howard Herrera (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative
complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendants Oksana Germain, Paul Germain
(collectively, “Defendants”) and Does 1 through 20 alleging causes of action
for: (1) negligence; and (2) motor vehicle owner liability [Vehicle Code §
17150]. 
            On November 20, 2024, Mrs. Herrera filed
the instant motion to be appointed as the successor-in-interest of Plaintiff
Alberto Herrera Hernandez. No opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “A cause of action that survives the
death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the
decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”), § 377.30.)  After the
death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a pending action that
does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative or
successor-in-interest.  (CCP, § 377.31.) 
 
The person who seeks to commence or
continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute
and file an affidavit or declaration stating: (1) the
decedent’s name, (2) the date and place of decedent’s death, (3) “No proceeding
is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate,” (4)
a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered,
(5) either the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or
the affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person has
a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are
true, under penalty of perjury.  (CCP, § 377.32 subds. (a)(1)-(7).) 
 
Additionally, a certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.
(CCP, § 377.32 subd. (c).) 
 
Mrs. Herrera, as Plaintiff Alberto Herrera Hernandez’s successor-in-interest
has filed a declaration that states: (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and
place of decedent’s death; (3) “No proceedings are pending in California for
the administration of my husband’s estate. My husband also did not have a
designated personal representative;” (4) decedent’s estate has not been administered;
(5) the declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest; (6) no other person
has a superior right to commence or be substituted for the decedent in the
pending  action or proceeding; and (7)
the statements are true, under penalty of perjury. (Mot., Ex. A, Herrera
Decl.; CCP § 377.32 subd. (a)(1)-(7).) 
 
Mrs. Herrera has also attached a certified
copy of Alberto Herrera Hernandez’s death certificate. (Mot., Ex. A, Herrera
Decl., Ex. A; CCP § 377.32 subd. (c)) 
 
Accordingly, Mrs. Herrera has satisfied
the requirements of CCP section 377.32.
 
The Motion to Appoint Non-Party Gabriela
Herrera as Successor in Interest of Plaintiff Alberto Herrera Hernandez is
GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



