 Case Number:  22STCV32586    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
¿¿¿ 
Hearing Date:                4/10/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case
No./Name.:         22STCV32586
MAHDAD SEYED BERENJI vs MAGPIES SOFTSERVE
Motion:                              MOTION TO QUASH
Moving Party:                 Defendant Peterberg Construction
Inc.
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Notice:                                Sufficient
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO QUASH PLAINTIFF’S DOE 1
AMENDMENT
 
Background
 
On October 5,
2022, Plaintiff filed a premises liability claim against Defendants Magpies
Softserve, Warren Schwartz, and Rose Schwartz (the “Magpies Defendants”). The
Magpies Defendants hired Peterberg Construction (“Peterberg”) as the general
contractor for the renovation of a property they leased (“Project”). Peterberg,
in turn, subcontracted Plaintiff for some of the electrical work for the
Project. Plaintiff alleges that on October 16, 2020, he fell from a ladder
while trying to reach the top of the walk-in cooler. The complaint was filed
near the two-year statute of limitations deadline. On November 4, 2022, the Magpies
Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Peterburg. On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, listing Peterberg as
DOE 1. Defendant Peterberg now moves the Court to quash the DOE amendment,
arguing that Plaintiff, at the very latest, knew of Peterberg's existence since
2022 and failed to amend the complaint for 2 years. Plaintiff counters that he
recently learned that the ladder in which he fell off of might have belonged to
Peterberg.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice 
 
Peterberg
requests the court take judicial notice of 1) Plaintiff’s complaint in this
action; 2) the
Cross-Complaint filed by the Magpies Defendants against Peterberg Construction,
Inc. and IRC Tel Electric, Inc; 3) the Cross-Complaint filed by Peterberg
against Mahdad Seyd Berenji DBA IRC Tel Electric; 4) Plaintiffs’ answer to
Peterberg’s Cross-Complaint; 4) Peterberg’s Motion for Summary Judgment against
the Magpies Defendants’ Cross-Complaint and 5) the Amendment to Complaint
(Fictitious/Incorrect Name) filed by Plaintiff naming Peterberg as Doe 1. The
requests are GRANTED.  (Evid. Code §§ 452(c); 452(h).)   
 
Legal Standard and Analysis
 
The addition of a Doe defendant is governed by Code of Civil
Procedure section 474, which provides: 
 
When the
plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in
the complaint, or the affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly. 
 
“When a defendant is properly named under section 474, the
amendment relates back to the filing date of the original complaint.”  (McClatchy
v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368,
371.)  The Complaint alleges that the “DOE is responsible, negligently or
in some other manner, for the events and happenings herein referred to, and
thereby proximately caused injuries and damages to the Plaintiff as hereinafter
alleged.” (Compl. ¶ 3.)   
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Doe Amendments. The
statute of limitations for torts claim is two years and the incident occurred
on October 16, 2020. The Doe Amendment is untimely unless the relation back
rules of Code of Civil Procedure section 474 apply. 
 
A motion entitled a “motion to quash” which seeks to present the
issue of whether a plaintiff “could avail himself of the Doe amendment
procedure authorized by section 474 and bring the Doe Defendants into the case”
is a procedurally proper motion.  (A.N., a Minor v. County of Los
Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1064.)   “Section
474 provides a method for adding defendants after the statute of limitations
has expired, but this procedure is available only when the plaintiff is
actually ignorant of the facts establishing a cause of action against the party
to be substituted for a Doe defendant.  The question is whether the
plaintiff knew or reasonably should have known that he had a cause of action
against the defendant.”  (McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy &
Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368, 371–372 (internal citation
omitted).)  
 
If the identity of the Doe defendant is known
but, at the time of the filing of the complaint the plaintiff did not know
facts that would cause a reasonable person to believe that liability is
probable, the requirements of section 474 are met. “Section 474 allows a
plaintiff in good faith to delay suing particular persons as named defendants
until he has knowledge of sufficient facts to cause a reasonable person to
believe liability is probable.” (Dieckmann v. Superior Court (1985) 175
Cal.App.3d 345, 363.) Plaintiff need not be aware of
each and every detail concerning a person’s involvement. (General Motors Corp. v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 580, 594-95)
 
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff has been aware of Peterberg even before filing the present complaint.
Peterberg served as the general contractor for the renovations of the Magpies Defendants’
property, and Plaintiff worked as a subcontractor for Peterberg. In Plaintiff’s
deposition, he testified about his contract with Peterberg Construction in
connection with the Magpies project. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s counsel produced
a check bearing Peterberg's name dated June 25, 2020. If Peterberg was not
known to Plaintiff in 2020, it is beyond doubt that Plaintiff became aware of
Peterberg when Peterburg was named in the Magpies Defendants’ Cross-Complaint
filed on November 4, 2022. 
Peterberg’s identity is
not a point of contention.  Rather,  Plaintiff contends that at the time of filing
the complaint Plaintiff believed the ladder used and subsequently fallen from
belonged to the Magpies Defendants. It was not until Defendant Warren Schwartz’s
and Peterberg’s depositions that Plaintiff discovered this might not be the
case.
However, the court does
not find Plaintiff’s argument persuasive. Plaintiff need not know every detail
concerning a person’s involvement before it is required to make the Doe amendment.
 The standard is whether Plaintiff knew
enough that would cause a reasonable person to believe that liability is
probable. (Dieckmann v. Superior Court (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 345, 363.)
The Court finds that a
reasonable person would have believed that liability is probable when the
Magpies Defendants filed a cross complaint against Peterberg for indemnity and contribution
for Plaintiff’s injury in November 2022. In the complaint, Plaintiff does not
make a narrow allegation against Doe defendants concerning just the ownership
of the ladder.  Rather, Plaintiff alleges
that “DOE is responsible, negligently or in some other manner, for the events
and happenings herein referred to, and thereby proximately caused injuries and
damages to the Plaintiff as hereinafter alleged.” (Complaint ¶3). When the Magpies
Defendants, in their cross complaint against Peterberg, allege that
"Plaintiffs sustained injuries as a direct result of the negligence of
Cross-Defendants" (Cross-Complaint at pg. 2), and "The Plaintiffs’
damages, if any, were caused by the negligence and carelessness of the
Cross-Defendants" (Cross-Complaint at pg. 3), a reasonable person would
believe that Peterberg’s liability is probable and would have amended its
complaint to include Peterberg as a Defendant in November 2022 when the
cross-complaint was filed. 
Further, as noted in
the Reply, the declaration opposing the Moiton is made by counsel.  But, he has no personal knowledge of the
facts that purportedly made the Plaintiff aware of Peterberg’s alleged
potential liability.
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to quash is GRANTED.
¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
¿
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.  
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 