 Case Number:  22STCV18977    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:                4/10/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:          22STCV18977 WHITNEY KIM ANH TRUONG vs CHA HEE
CHOI
Motion:                              MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff
Responding Party:      Unopposed
Notice:                                Sufficient
¿ 
Ruling:                              MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN PART AND
DENIED IN PART
 
 
Legal Standard
 
“To the extent authorized by the
chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of
this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney,
and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against
anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: ... (b)
The court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be
taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party
adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The court may also
impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses. (c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
introducing designated matters in evidence."¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) “Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: ... (d) Failing to respond or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery. ... (g) Disobeying a court
order to provide discovery."¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
The Civil Discovery Act provides
for an escalating and “incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting
with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.”
(Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc.¿(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)¿Discovery sanctions should be
appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and they “should not
exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to
but denied discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)
“If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted:
continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.;
see also, e.g.,¿Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262,
279-280.)
 
The primary purpose of discovery
sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and the Court’s
orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v. Super. Ct.¿(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613;¿Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle of Los
Angeles¿(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery sanction
should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a better
position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply complied with
its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery Act. (Rutledge
v. Hewlett-Packard Co.¿(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1194; see also 2 Weil
& Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶¿8:2214-2220.)
 
Factual Background and Analysis
On February 13, 2024, the Court heard and granted
Plaintiff's motion to compel further responses due to Defendants’ refusal to
produce a privilege log for responses objected to on the basis of the attorney
work product doctrine. The Court ordered Defendants to provide further
responses and pay sanctions within twenty (20) days of the hearing, setting a
deadline of March 4, 2024. Despite this order, Defendants failed to deliver
further responses or pay the sanctions by the specified deadline. Subsequently,
the parties met and conferred. On May 8, 2024, Defendants paid the sanctions
and communicated that they were “finalizing” a privilege log and further
responses, with expectations to have verifications by Monday, March 11, 2024.
However, on May 12, 2024, Defendant sent unverified responses, leading
Plaintiff to file the current motion. Defendant did not submit an opposition.
It is undisputed that
Defendants were late in complying with the Court’s order to provide further
responses and to pay sanctions. Nevertheless, Defendants did substantially
comply with the Court’s order by providing the responses and payment to
Plaintiff. More importantly, Defendants produced the privilege log, addressing
the central issue of the motion to compel further. Plaintiff also did not
present any evidence of Defendants’ prior violations of court orders.
Therefore, the Court concludes that imposing evidentiary and issue sanctions under
the circumstances would not be consistent with the incremental approach to
discovery sanctions prescribed by the Civil Discovery Act, which starts with monetary sanctions and ends with the ultimate
sanction of termination. (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of
New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)
That being said, the further
responses served by Defendants contain factual allegations that required their
verifications, and no verifications were provided before the filing of the
present motion. Defendants did not file an opposition explaining why
verifications were not served by the court-ordered deadline or before Plaintiff
filed the present motion. It is also uncertain if verifications were provided
after the motion was filed but prior to the current hearing. Due to Defendants’
failure to provide the required verifications, Plaintiff was compelled to incur
attorney's fees by filing the current motion. Under these circumstances, the
Court deems monetary sanctions to be appropriate.
Plaintiff has requested
attorney’s fees in the amount of $4,800.80. However, given the simplicity of
the issues and the absence of an opposition, the Court exercises its discretion
and adjusts the sanction amount to $2,000.00.
Accordingly, the Court
orders Defendants to provide verification to their further responses to
Plaintiff’s request for production, set one, served on March 12, 2024, within
20 days of today. Additionally, the Court ORDERS Defendants and their counsel,
jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $2000 to Plaintiff within 20 days of
today’s date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.