  Case Number:  21STCV12846    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/10/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV12646 ENGRACIA LOERA vs PALM GARDEN
APARTMENTS
Motion:                    MOTION TO BIFURCATE
Moving Party:           Defendants
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient
¿ 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS DENIED
 
 
Defendants’ motion to
bifurcate is DENIED without prejudice to Defendants raising this issue for the
trial judge to consider, on its own motion, at the time that the judge rules
upon motions in limine.  The Court orders that the bifurcation briefing be
included in the trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in limine filed
in the case.  The Court recognizes that CRC Rule 3.57(c) states, “A motion
in limine may not be used for the purpose of seeking an order to try an issue
before the trial of another issue or issues,” and thus this order should not be
construed in a way that contradicts this rule.  Defendant may direct the
trial court to this order, which should not be construed to in any way bind the
trial court in making a bifurcation decision on its own motion.
Defendant
properly sought a bifurcation order in advance of the trial date.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 598 (court to issue order bifurcating case on noticed motion
by the pretrial conference or, absent a pretrial conference, no later than 30
days in advance of trial).)   Given that in the
Personal Injury Hub system this case will be tried by a different judicial
officer than the one ruling on this motion at this time, the Court finds it
appropriate for the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is
warranted.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing,
the motion to bifurcate the issue of liability from the issue of damages at
trial is DENIED without prejudice.
Moving party is ordered
to give notice.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.