 Case Number:  21STCV25760    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
23, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  May 13, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Jonathan Rivera v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV25760
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
City of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
Jonathan Rivera
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
& PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
 
This is a civil rights action involving a claim for excessive
force and infringements of federal rights. 
In response to the murder of George Floyd, protestors gathered near the
intersection of Beverly Blvd. and The Grove Drive/Stanley Drive (the “Stanley
Protest”), among other locations.  On May
30, 2020, Plaintiff, Jonathan Rivera, participated in the Stanley Protest.  Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) and Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (“LACSD”) deployed law enforcement to provide
crowd control at the protest.  Under the
direction of the City of Los Angeles (“City”) and County of Los Angeles
(“COLA”), respectively, the LAPD and LACSD attempted to disperse the protestors
by firing rubber bullets.  At
approximately 6:30 p.m., Plaintiff’s hand was struck by a rubber bullet shot by
an unknown badged officer.  About forty
minutes later, Plaintiff left the protest to get treatment for his hand.  During these events, Mayor Eric Garcetti
issued an order setting curfew for Los Angeles. 
The curfew took effect at 8:00 p.m.
 
On July 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against the City,
LAPD, COLA, and LACSD, alleging the following causes of action:
 
1. Violations of the Ralph Civil Rights Act (Civ. Code § 51.7)  
2. Violations of the Bane Civil Rights Act (Civ. Code §
52.1)
3. Violations of the Unruh Act (Ci. Code § 1, et seq.)
4. 42 U.S.C. § 1983: First Amendment
5. 42 U.S.C. § 1983: Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments
6. Assault and Battery 
7. Negligence  
8. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
On September 13, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed COLA and LACSD
from the Complaint.
 
On July 11, 2023, the City filed this motion for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.   
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.[1]  The City replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            When
reviewing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, courts must
apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must be granted “if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant
need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To
meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a
defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed
evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is
insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891 (Gaggero).)¿ The defendant
“must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain
evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence
can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions,
answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            “Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by
showing one or more triable issues of material fact exist as to the challenged
element. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
            The
court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of
that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences
are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way,
have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s]
case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact
that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
 
 
 
III.       JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following
documents: 
 
1.     
Defendant City of Los Angeles’s,
March 10, 2021, Inter-Departmental Correspondence and Attached Independent
Examination of the Los Angeles Police Department 2020 Protest Response (the
“Chaleff Report”); 
2.     
The Google Maps Screenshot of
Beverly Blvd. and N. Fairfax Ave.;
3.     
The Google Map Screenshot of Beverly
Blvd. and The Grove Drive;
4.     
The Google Map Screenshot Showing
Distance Between the Claimed and Actual Incident Location;
5.     
The May 30, 2020, Variety article,
titled “Los Angeles Sets Downtown Curfew as George Floyd Protests Continue”
(the “Variety Article”).
 
            The
City raises one objection – to the Chaleff Report.  Because the court does not rely upon the
Chaleff Report, the court need not rule upon the objection.  (Code Civ. Proc. 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
Plaintiff’s
remaining unopposed requests are GRANTED. 

 
IV.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff objects to the following exhibits filed in support
of this motion:
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s medical records from
Martin Luther King Jr. Community Hospital, attached as Exhibit G to the City’s Compendium
of Evidence.
2.     
Order Setting Curfew During
Existence of a Local Emergency (Revised May 30, 2020 6:30 p.m.) signed by Mayor
Eric Garcetti on May 30, 2020 (the “Curfew Order”), attached as Exhibit K to
the City’s Compendium of Evidence.
3.     
May 31, 2020 Los Angeles Times
Article entitled “L.A. reels from looting and arrests not seen in decades”
written by Ruben Vives and Dakota Smith, attached as Exhibit L to the City’s
Compendium of Evidence.
4.     
June 7, 2020 Los Angeles Times
Article entitled, “From Compton to Hollywood Boulevard, protests keep growing
around L.A.” written by Arit John, Richard Winton, Kevin Rector, and Laura
Newberry, attached as Exhibit M to the City’s Compendium of Evidence.
 
            Objection
No. 1 is OVERRULED.  Plaintiff objects to
the medical records on several grounds yet also refers to them in their
opposition papers.  (See Singer Decl., ¶
7.)  See also, Sweetwater Union High
School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931. 
 
            Objection
No. 2 is OVERRULED.  Plaintiff objects to
the Curfew Order based on lack of authentication, lack of foundation/no
personal knowledge, improper foundation, best (secondary) evidence rule,
hearsay, and contradicts prior sworn testimony.  The court takes judicial notice of the Curfew
Order pursuant to Evidence Code section 452 (b), (c).  
 
            The
court declines to rule on Objection Nos. 3 and 4 as they are not relevant to
the disposition of this motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc. 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
V.        DISCUSSION
 
            A. Contentions
 
            The City seeks adjudication of the following issues:
 
Issue
1: Plaintiff did not comply with the requirements of the Government Claims Act
(Government Code § 810, et seq.). Therefore, Plaintiff’s state law claims for
Violations of the Ralph Civil Rights Act (Civil Code § 51.7), Violations of the
Bane Civil Rights Act (Civil Code § 52.1), Violations of the Unruh Act (Civil
Code § 51, et seq.), Assault and Battery, Negligence, and Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (Plaintiff’s first, second, third, sixth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action) should be dismissed. 
 
Issue
2: Plaintiff cannot show that he was deprived of a federal right (Plaintiff’s
fourth and fifth causes of action) because the curfew order about which
Plaintiff complains was a reasonable time, place, and manner restriction. 
 
Issue
3: Plaintiff cannot show that he was deprived of a federal right (Plaintiff’s
fourth and fifth causes of action) because Plaintiff was not impacted by the
curfew order about which he complains. 
 
Issue
4: Plaintiff’s Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment rights (Plaintiff’s fifth cause
of action) were not violated by any alleged unlawful detention because
Plaintiff was not arrested or detained.[2]
 
 
            B.  Issue 1: Plaintiff Substantially Complied
with the Government Claims Act
 
            Defendant
argues summary judgment is appropriate because Plaintiff failed to comply with
the Government Claims Act.  Under the
Government Claims Act, a party must present a timely claim for money or damages
to a local public entity before suing the local public entity for money or
damages. (Gov. Code, §§ 905, 945.4; State v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) This provides the public entity with an opportunity to
investigate the claim and determine whether it will pay on the claim. (See Roberts
v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 474, 480.) Such a claim may
be presented by delivering or mailing it to the clerk, secretary, or auditor of
the public entity, or by mailing it to the governing body at its principal
office. (Gov. Code, § 915, subd. (a).) A claim is also deemed to be in
compliance if it is actually received by the clerk, secretary, auditor, or
board of the local public entity. (Gov. Code, §¿915, subd.
(e)(1).)   
 
            “Where
there has been an attempt to comply [with the claims statute] but the
compliance is defective, the test of substantial compliance controls. Under
this test, the court must ask whether sufficient information is disclosed on
the face of the filed claim ‘to reasonably enable the public entity to make an
adequate investigation of the merits of the claim and settle it without the
expense of a lawsuit.’” (Wood v. Riverside Gen. Hosp. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1118.)  In this test,
the Court first determines whether (1) there is "some compliance"
with statutory requirements, and then (2) whether that compliance is
"substantial".  (See Ibid.)  “The doctrine of substantial compliance
requires no more than that the governmental entity be apprised of the claim,
have an opportunity to investigate and settle it and incur no prejudice as a
result of plaintiff's failure to strictly comply with the claims act. (Elias
v. San Bernardino County Flood Control Dist. (1977) 68 Cal. App. 3d 70,
75.)  Further, the causes of the action
in the complaint must be "fairly reflected" in the substantially
complying government claim.  (Fall
River Joint Unified Sch. Dist. v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d
431, 434.)
            
            The City
attacks Plaintiff’s state law claims (First, Second, Third, Sixth, Seventh, and
Eighth Causes of Action) for failure to substantially comply with the
Government Claims Act.  The City points
out that Plaintiff’s Claim for Damages does not identify the correct date or
location of the protest where his hand injury occurred.  The Claim for Damages states the alleged events
took place on May 29, 2020 at 6:30 p.m., at or near the corner of Beverly Blvd.
and N. Fairfax Ave., Los Angeles, California. 
(Claim for Damages, p. 2.)  The
parties agree the incident actually occurred on May 30, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at or
near the corner of Beverly Blvd. and The Grove Drive/Stanley Ave.   Based
on the foregoing, the City argues the misstated information fails to establish substantial
compliance because the City was prevented from properly investigating and
evaluating its potential liability at the time that Plaintiff submitted his
Claim for Damages. 
 
            The court
disagrees.  Plaintiff’s allegations of
the City’s conduct as stated in the Claim for Damages and the Complaint are
unchanged.  Plaintiff attended a
protest.  The City dispatched LAPD
officers to the protest.  An unknown
badged officer used rubber bullets to disperse the protestors.  A rubber bullet injured Plaintiff’s
hand.  Plaintiff substantially complied
with the claims act.  The City does not
proffer any evidence to show, for instance, that LAPD officers were not sent to
the Stanley Protest.  The City shows it
incurred minimal prejudice, if any, from Plaintiff’s failure to strictly comply
with the claims act.  (Elias, supra,
68 Cal. App. 3d at p. 75.)
 
            The City cites Hernandez v. City of Stockton (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1222 in support of its argument.  The case does not help the City.  In Hernandez, the plaintiff sued Stockton
for a dangerous condition on a public sidewalk. 
Hernandez identified the dangerous condition as an uplifted
sidewalk.  But liability was premised on
a different dangerous condition – a hole created by an empty tree well.  Finding a fatal variance, the Hernandez
Court wrote, “An ‘uplifted sidewalk’ is not the factual equivalent of a
hole created by an empty tree well that is clearly in an area intended for a
tree rather than presented as part of the ‘sidewalk surface,’ and does not
remotely resemble what a reasonable person might consider to constitute an ‘uplifted
sidewalk.’” (Id. at p. 1234.)  The factual divergence between cause of
the injury identified in the claim (an uplift) and the suit (a tree well) resulted
in a complete “shift in allegations as to the dangerous condition.”  The court of appeal reasoned that, prior to
rejecting Hernandez’s claim, the City of Stockton was unaware of the actual
cause of Hernandez’s fall.
            Unlike Hernandez,
and as discussed above, Plaintiff identified the cause of his injury: a rubber
bullet fired by an unknown badged officer. 
This allegation has not changed.  The
City is aware of the actual cause of Plaintiff’s injury.  Hernandez does not direct a different
result. Here, Plaintiff demonstrates substantial compliance.  
 
            The City
does not identify any additional grounds for summary adjudication of the First,
Second, Third, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action.  Defendant has not its initial burden.  Accordingly, the motion as to those causes of
action is DENIED.
 
C.
Issues 2 and 3: The Curfew Order Was Not Unconstitutional Nor Did It Impact
Plaintiff’s Federal Rights     
 
            Plaintiff’s
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action are based on Mayor Garcetti’s Curfew Order,
issued on May 20, 2020.  Plaintiff alleges
the Curfew Order violated his rights under First, Fifth, and Fourteenth
Amendment, which gives rise causes of action pursuant to 42 U.S.C. section
1983.  
 
            42 U.S.C. section
1983 “is not itself a source of substantive rights, but merely provides a
method for vindicating federal rights elsewhere conferred. The two essential
elements of a 42 U.S.C. section 1983 claim are (1) whether the conduct
complained of was committed by a person acting under color of state law; and
(2) whether this conduct deprived a person of rights, privileges, or immunities
secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States.”  (Vergos v. McNeal (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 1387, 1402 [cleaned up].)
 
            Under Monell,
supra, local governments “can be sued directly under § 1983 for monetary,
declaratory, or injunctive relief where . . . the action that is alleged to be
unconstitutional implements or executes a policy statement, ordinance,
regulation, or decision officially adopted and promulgated by that body's
officers.  Moreover, . . . local
governments . . . may be sued for constitutional deprivations visited pursuant
to governmental 'custom' even though such a custom has not received formal
approval through the body's official decisionmaking channels.”  (Monell, 436 U.S. at pp.
690-91.)  
 
            The City makes two arguments
regarding the Curfew Order: (1) the Curfew Order was a reasonable time, place,
and manner restriction, and (2) Plaintiff was not factually affected by the
Curfew Order.  The court agrees on both
counts.  
 
            Time, Place,
and Manner
 
            “Expression, whether oral or written or symbolized by
conduct, is subject to reasonable time, place, or manner restrictions. We have
often noted that restrictions of this kind are valid provided that they are
justified without reference to the content of the regulated speech, that they
are narrowly tailored to serve a significant governmental interest, and that
they leave open ample alternative channels for communication of the information.”  (Clark v. Cmty. for Creative Non-Violence (1984)
468 U.S. 288, 293.)  “The principal
inquiry in determining content neutrality, in speech cases generally and in
time, place, or manner cases in particular, is whether the government has
adopted a regulation of speech because of disagreement with the message it
conveys.” (Ward v. Rock Against Racism (1989) 491 U.S. 781, 791)
 
            Here, the
Curfew Order imposed a reasonable time, place, and manner restriction.  It states:
 
WHEREAS,
on May 30, 2020, I declared a Local Emergency within the City of Los Angeles
resulting from the civil unrest following the death of George Floyd in
Minneapolis, Minnesota; WHEREAS, preceding the declaration of this Local
Emergency, while the majority of protesters acted lawfully, there has been a
significant amount of criminal behavior, including violence against first
responders and peaceful protestors, vandalism of public and private property,
looting of businesses, and failure to follow the lawful dispersal orders of the
Los Angeles Police Department; NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested
in me as Mayor of the City of Los Angeles under the City of Los Angeles Charter
and provisions of Los Angeles Administrative Code, Chapter 3, Section 8.29 to
promulgate, issue and enforce rules, regulations, directives and orders, I
hereby declare the following Order necessary for the protection of life and
property in the areas of the City specified below: 1. No person, except as set
forth below, shall be upon any public street, avenue, boulevard, place, alley,
park or other public place or unimproved private realty within the City of Los
Angeles boundaries - between 8:00 p.m. and 5:30 a.m. of the following day. 2.
This Order shall not apply to peace officers, fire fighters, Emergency
Operations Organization (EOO) personnel, the National Guard, any other
responding military personnel deployed to the area, individuals traveling to
and from work, individuals seeking or providing emergency medical care, or any
persons experiencing homelessness. Any violation of this Order shall be subject
to enforcement and penalty as provided under Los Angeles Administrative Code,
Chapter 3, Section 8.78. This Order shall remain in effect until such time as
the Declaration of Local Emergency is terminated, or sooner at the direction of
the Mayor.
 
(Curfew Order, City’s Compendium of Evidence, Ex. K.)
 
            The Curfew
Order does not reference the content of the regulated speech.  Moreover, it’s narrowly tailored to serve the
governmental interest of protecting life and property arising from the “significant
amount of criminal behavior, including violence against first responders and
peaceful protestors, vandalism of public and private property, looting of
businesses, and failure to follow the lawful dispersal orders of the Los
Angeles Police Department.”  (Id.)  The curfew applied to all citizens except
those whose services were urgently needed such as peace officers, fire
fighters, Emergency Operations Organization (EOO) personnel, the National
Guard, any other responding military personnel deployed to the area, and individuals
traveling to and from work, individuals seeking or providing emergency medical
care, or any persons experiencing homelessness.  The Curfew Order is narrowly tailored to a
significant governmental interest.  It
passes constitutional muster.              
 
            The City
cites In re New York City Policing During Summer 2020 Demonstrations (S.D.N.Y.
2021), 548 F.Supp.3d 383 (In re New York) to further illustrate the constitutionality
of the Curfew Order.  In re New York
is persuasive.  In that case, Mayor Bill
de Blasio imposed a curfew within New York City between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
on June 1 and 5:00 a.m. on June 2.  The
curfew order contained language strikingly similar to the Curfew Order at issue
here.  The court in In re New York found
the curfew to be content neutral and narrowly tailored to a significant
governmental interest.  The court reaches
the same conclusion with respect to the Curfew Order at issue here.   
 
            Plaintiff
argues the Curfew Order was not narrowly tailored because “it applied
indiscriminately across the entire city and did not account for the varying
circumstances in different areas.” 
(Opposition, p. 10:20-22.) 
Plaintiff’s argument fails.  As
the City correctly points out, the inquiry is whether a regulation or
restriction on speech is narrowly tailored to serve a significant government
interest, not if it is narrowly tailored in its geographic application.[3]  Plaintiff does not show the Curfew Order was
illegal. 
 
            The
Curfew Order Did Not Impair Plaintiff’s Federal Rights
 
            The City next argues that the Curfew Order could not have
impacted Plaintiff because he left the protest before the curfew took
effect.  In support, the City points to
the undisputed fact that Plaintiff was struck by a rubber bullet at 6:30
p.m.  (Complaint, ¶ 26; Claim for
Damages, p. 1.)  Plaintiff testified he
left the protest 40 to 45 minutes after his hand was struck.  (Rivera Depo., Vol. I, p. 117:21-24.)  At that point, Plaintiff decided to seek
treatment for his hand. (Rivera Depo. Vol. I, pp. 119:21-120:3.)  The curfew took effect at 8:00 p.m.  (Curfew Order; RJN 1.)  At no point was Plaintiff detained or arrested
during his participation at the protest. 
(Rivera Depo., Vol I., pp. 141:22-142:16.)  Plaintiff decided to leave the protest to tend
to his injuries and not because of the Curfew Order.  The City meets its initial burden.
 
            The burden
shifts.  Plaintiff fails to rebut the
shifted burden.  Plaintiff simply argues
that the Curfew Order “could have had a significant chilling
effect on Plaintiff’s willingness to exercise his First Amendment rights out of
fear of reprisal or arrest, a factor that merits consideration.”  (Opposition, p. 12:25-26, emphasis added.)  Plaintiff’s conjecture is not sufficient to
resist summary adjudication.  The
evidence presented shows Plaintiff’s departure from the protest—the exercise of
his First Amendment right—preceded the enforcement of the curfew.  Plaintiff left the protest to seek treatment
for his injured hand.  Plaintiff does not
offer any evidence that he was detained or arrested.  Indeed, Plaintiff testified he did not have
any direct interactions with any officers. 
(Rivera Depo., p. 141:24.) 
Summary adjudication of the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action is
warranted.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion for summary adjudication
of the First, Second, Third, Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action is
DENIED.
 
            The motion for summary adjudication
of the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.  
 
Dated:   January 23, 2024                                  




 


 
  


 




 


 
  Kerry Bensinger 
 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


