


[1] In his opposition, Plaintiff
requests a continuance of this motion if the court is inclined to grant the
motion in whole or in part.  For the
reasons stated herein, the court is inclined to grant the motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s claims under Monell v. New York City Dept. of
Social Services (1978) 436 U.S. 658 (Monell) (Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action).  The court now
considers Plaintiff’s request for a continuance.  
 
“If
it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court
shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained
or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)  Here, Plaintiff bases the request upon the
need to conduct the deposition of the City’s person(s) most qualified.  Plaintiff’s counsel states, “These
depositions and the ability to conduct further discovery are paramount to
Plaintiff’s ability to fully respond and substantively oppose Defendant’s
MSJ.”  (Singer Decl., ¶ 12.)  However, the declaration fails to identify any
“facts essential to justify opposition to a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication.”  There is no
indication what information Plaintiff intends to elicit at the depositions.  The declaration is deficient.  
 
Plaintiff
cites Frazee  v. Seely (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 627, 633-34 for the proposition that a continuance of a hearing on
a motion for summary judgment is mandatory when the party seeking the
continuance has observed “technical compliance with the procedures of Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c ....”  However,
consistent with Frazee, a continuance is not mandatory here
because, as stated above, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration is deficient.  The request for a continuance is DENIED.


[2] The parties do not brief their
arguments by issue.  Issue 4 is not
addressed by the parties.  The issue is
either abandoned or subsumed within the discussion of issues 2 and 3.  As such, the court does not address issue 4.



[3] Arguably, Plaintiff’s
consideration of the “varying circumstances in different areas” in the
application of the Curfew Order would tend to show that the curfew was not content
neutral.  If, for instance, the Curfew
Order applied only to the areas where the protestors had been gathering, then
the Curfew Order would have targeted the protestors and by extension, their
exercise of speech and expression.

