 Case Number:  22STCV26260    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 







GATEWAY POINTE, LLC,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
FITNESS INTERNATIONAL, LLC,
  fka L.A. FITNESS INTERNATIONAL, LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV26260




Hearing Date:


February 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


1:30 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
            Background
Plaintiff Gateway Pointe, LLC (“Gateway”) filed this action on August
12, 2022 against Defendant Fitness International, LLC fka L.A. Fitness
International, LLC (“Fitness”). The Complaint alleges one cause of action for
breach of lease. 
In the Complaint, Gateway
alleges that at all relevant times, it was and now is the 
owner
of real property located at 1275 E. Foothill Blvd., La Verne, CA 91750 (the
“Property”). (Compl., ¶ 1(b).) On or about March 8, 1999, Gateway’s predecessor in
interest, La Verne Retail Partners, LLC and Fitness entered into a written
lease whereby Fitness leased the Property. (Compl., ¶ 5.) On February 10, 2011,
Gateway and Fitness entered into a written First Amendment to Lease. (Compl., ¶
6.) Gateway alleges that “[o]n or about April 1, 2020, and at various times
thereafter, [Fitness] breached the LEASE by failing to pay rent when due. This
constitutes a material breach of LEASE. As of August 1, 2022, [Fitness] owes,
at least, the sum of $954,808.52 in unpaid rent, exclusive of interest, late
charges and attorney’s fees.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
On October 14, 2022, Fitness filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against
Gateway. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of written
contract (lease), (2) common count – monies had and received, (2) common count
– monies paid by mistake, (4) common count – monies paid and expended, (5)
declaratory relief – closure period, and (6) declaratory relief - ongoing
restrictions. 
In the Cross-Complaint, Fitness alleges, inter alia, that “Fitness,
a nationwide operator of indoor health clubs and fitness centers, including in
California, is among the many businesses that were materially and negatively
impacted by the government-mandated closures due to COVID-19.” (Cross-Compl., ¶
2.) Fitness alleges that it leases from Gateway approximately 41,000 usable
square feet of floor at the premises located at 1275 E. Foothill Blvd., La
Verne, CA 91750 for the operation of its indoor health club and fitness center
(the “Premises”). (Cross-Compl., ¶ 3.) 
Fitness alleges in the Cross-Complaint that “it was illegal for
Fitness to use the entire Premises for nearly a year as a result of certain
closure orders by state and local government officials due to COVID-19. Because
Fitness could not use or enjoy the Premises during this time, Landlord was in
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment causing harm to Fitness in an amount
to be proven at trial.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 4.) Fitness further alleges that
“during the periods of the government-mandated closures, the essential purpose
of the parties’ lease was temporarily frustrated and Fitness did not receive
the benefit of its bargain. Fitness’s performance was rendered temporarily
impossible and impracticable because Fitness was prohibited from using the
Premises and Fitness did not generate any revenue from the Premises, as
membership dues/fees/monetary payments were frozen. Prior to the government
mandated closures, Fitness had dutifully and consistently timely paid its rent
as part of a once cooperative and fruitful relationship with Gateway.
Nevertheless, and in contravention of the lease and the legal principles
applicable to the circumstances, Gateway demands Fitness pay full rent.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 5.) 
Gateway now moves for summary judgment or in the alternative, summary
adjudication. Fitness opposes. 
Requests for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Gateway’s request for
judicial notice in support of the motion as to Exhibits A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H,
I, J, and K. Gateway’s request for judicial notice in support of the motion is
otherwise denied. 
The Court grants Fitness’s request for
judicial notice in support of Fitness’s opposition. 
The Court denies Gateway’s request for
judicial filed in support of Gateway’s reply. The Court notes that “¿¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿¿” (Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.) 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on the parties’ Joint
Statement of Evidentiary Objections in Dispute regarding Gateway’s Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication as follows: 
Gateway’s Evidentiary Objections: 
Objection to paragraphs 4-6, and 9 of the Alexander Declaration: overruled.
Objection to paragraphs 11-14 of the Alexander Declaration: sustained
as to paragraph 13 and the second sentence of paragraph 12, overruled as to the
remainder. 
Objection to paragraphs 10, 13, and 15-23 and Exhibits B-D of the
Alexander Declaration: sustained as to paragraphs 13, 15-23 and the first
sentence of paragraph 21,  
overruled
as to the remainder. 
Objection to paragraphs 31-37 of the Alexander Declaration: sustained.
  
Fitness’s Evidentiary Objections: 
Objection to paragraph 1 of the Lu Declaration: overruled. 
Objection to paragraphs 4 and 8 of the Lu Declaration: overruled. 
Objection to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Lu Declaration: overruled. 
Objection to paragraph 7 and Exhibits D-G of the Lu Declaration:
overruled. 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
The moving party bears
the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact. ((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. ((Ibid.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Discussion 
A.    Frustration of
Purpose/Temporary Frustration of Purpose
            Gateway
seeks summary adjudication of its “Issue No. 5,” that “LA Fitness’s 31st
affirmative defense fails because the doctrine of frustration of purpose and/or
temporary frustration of purpose do not provide a defense to LA Fitness’s
breach of its obligation to pay rent as a matter of law.” (Notice of Mot. at p.
2:23-25.) 
On October 14, 2022, Fitness filed an answer
to Gateway’s Complaint in this action. Fitness’s thirty-first affirmative
defense is for “frustration of purpose/temporary frustration of purpose,” and
alleges that “Landlord’s claims are barred because the intent of the
parties in entering the Lease and the essential purpose of the Lease have been
frustrated, and/or were temporarily frustrated.” (Fitness’s Answer, ¶ 31.) 
            Gateway cites to SVAP III Poway Crossings, LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
882, 885 (Poway), where the Court of Appeal noted that “Defendant and cross-complainant Fitness International, LLC
(Fitness), appeals from a judgment entered in favor of plaintiff and
cross-defendant SVAP III Poway Crossings,
LLC (SVAP), on SVAP’s breach of contract claim for Fitness’s
nonpayment of rent under the parties[’] lease. Fitness contends that the trial
court erred in granting summary judgment because its obligation to pay rent was
excused due to the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting government orders
prohibiting it from operating its fitness facility for several months.
Specifically, Fitness contends that the court should have found that the
obligation to pay rent was excused based on: (1) SVAP’s own material breach of the lease; (2) the
force majeure provision in the lease; (3) Civil Code
section 1511…(4) the doctrines of impossibility and impracticability; and (5) the doctrine of frustration of purpose. We
conclude that these contentions lack merit and affirm the judgment in favor
of SVAP.”  
            The Poway Court noted, inter
alia, that “[t]he
doctrine of frustration excuses contractual obligations where [p]erformance
remains entirely possible, but the whole value of the performance to one of the
parties at least, and the basic reason recognized as such by both parties, for entering
into the contract has been destroyed by a supervening and unforeseen event. A
party seeking to escape the obligations of its lease under the doctrine of
frustration must show: (1) the purpose of the contract that has been frustrated
was contemplated by both parties in entering the contract; (2) the risk of the event
was not reasonably foreseeable and the party claiming frustration did not
assume the risk under the contract; and (3) the value of counterperformance is
totally or nearly totally destroyed. Governmental acts that merely
make performance unprofitable or more difficult or expensive do
not suffice to excuse a contractual obligation.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings,
LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 895 [internal
quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in original].) 
The Poway
Court found that “[a]ssuming, as Fitness argues, that the primary purpose of the
lease was for Fitness to operate a health club and fitness facility (and the
lease did not allocate the risk created by the government closure orders to
Fitness alone), we still conclude that the orders did not result in the
destruction of the lease’s purpose and value such that Fitness’s performance
was excused…The parties entered into the lease in June 2002, and the current
lease term ends in October 2025. The temporary government closure of a fitness
facility for a period of months when the premises have been leased for
more than 19 years—and the lease term spans more than 23 years total—does not
amount to the kind of complete frustration required for the doctrine to
apply. Even
more clearly with respect to leases than in regard to ordinary contracts[,] the
applicability of the doctrine of frustration depends on the total or nearly total destruction of the purpose. Frustration is not an available
defense where, as here, counterperformance has been and remains valuable. Because the value of the lease has not been totally or
substantially destroyed, Fitness’s performance is not excused.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings,
LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at pages
895-896 [internal quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in
original].) 
            Gateway asserts that the lease here
is for a multi-year period and authorizes “ancillary uses” beyond merely
operating an indoor gym, such that the value of the lease was not completely destroyed.
Gateway submits the Declaration of Mark Lu, who is employed by Mar Investments
as a property manager for Gateway. (Lu Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Lu states in his
declaration that “[a]ttached hereto as Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of
the Lease at issue in the above captioned matter and all amendments thereto.
The lessor under the Lease is [Gateway’s] predecessor in interest.” (Lu Decl.,
¶ 3.) Gateway notes that Section 1.15 of the lease
provides as follows: 
“1.15 Tenant’s
Permitted Uses: Tenant use shall be restricted to the operation of a full
service sports and health club facility and ancillary uses typically found in
L.A. Fitness Sports Clubs such as a pro shop, physical therapy center,
chiropractic care, personal training, weight loss advising and related programs,
therapeutic massage, swim lessons, racquetball lessons, tanning salon, juice
bar, child care facility for members and food and beverage service (‘Permitted
Uses’). Subject to all other provisions of this Lease relating to subletting,
Tenant shall be allowed to sublet the Premises for any legal use not in
conflict with any exclusive use provisions or agreements then in force or with
any proposed tenant with whom lease negotiations have started. In addition,
Tenant may not sublet the Premises for any use prohibited by any other
provision of this Lease or applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any
governmental entity or agency.” (Lu Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p. 6.)  
In the opposition, Fitness asserts that it has “presented evidence
sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact regarding whether the
doctrine of frustration of purpose excused Fitness’s obligation to pay rent
during the Closure Periods.” (Opp’n at p. 15:16-18.) 
Fitness asserts that “the Lease itself confirms the mutual purpose was
for Fitness to use and occupy the Premises as an indoor gym in exchange for
rent. Fitness was only permitted to use the Premises as ‘a full service sports
and health club facility,’ and uses ancillary thereto.” (Opp’n at p. 13:17-19,
citing to Lease, §§ 1.15, 4.1.)[1] 
Fitness also provides the Declaration of Diann D. Alexander, the
Director of Lease Administration, Vice President-Senior Real Estate Counsel to
Fitness. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Alexander states that “Fitness opened its indoor
health club and fitness facility at the Premises more than 20 years ago and has
only operated the Premises as an indoor health club and fitness facility since
opening…” (Alexander Decl., ¶ 9.) Fitness asserts that “[h]ere, the purpose of
the Lease was for Fitness to use and occupy the Premises as an indoor gym, and
in exchange pay rent. This purpose was completely frustrated during the Closure
Periods.” (Opp’n at p. 14:24-25.) Ms. Alexander states in her declaration that
“[b]ecause of the COVID-19 Pandemic, and related government closure orders,
Fitness was forced to cease operating at all of its California locations,
approximately 125, and was forced to close its corporate office located in
Irvine, California.” (Alexander Decl., ¶ 27.) 
However, Gateway notes that the Poway Court also held that “[o]ur conclusion is supported
by the rule that where commercial frustration does apply, the legal effect …
is the immediate termination of the contract…As amicus curiae points out,
because the application of the doctrine of frustration under California law
compels the termination of the contract, the law does not recognize the temporary
frustration defense Fitness attempts to assert here.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings,
LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 896 [internal
quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in original].) The Poway
Court further held that “[i]t is also
clear from the parties’ actions and argument that neither considered the
contract to terminate as a result of the orders. On the contrary, Fitness continued to occupy the premises throughout the closure
periods and did not attempt to rescind the lease. It therefore
remains obligated to pay rent while in possession of the premises.” (Ibid.) 
Gateway
asserts that accordingly, “[i]f there was frustration of purpose,
LA Fitness could not remain on the Premises and refuse to pay rent.” (Mot. at
p. 14:19-20.) In his
supporting declaration, Mr. Lu states that “[f]rom April 2020
through March 2021 LA Fitness occupied the leased premises but did not pay all
rent due,” and that “Plaintiff[2]
has remained in possession of the Premises the entire time it failed to pay
rent and has never attempted to rescind or terminate the Lease.” (Lu Decl., ¶¶
4, 8.) Fitness does not appear to address this point in the opposition. 
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Gateway has met its burden of demonstrating
that Fitness’s thirty-first affirmative defense has
no merit (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1)), and that Fitness has failed to raise a triable issue of material
fact as to this affirmative defense.
B.     Impossibility and
Impracticability
Gateway also seeks summary adjudication of its “Issue No. 2,” that “LA
Fitness’s 19th and 24th affirmative defenses fail because the doctrine of
impossibility and/or temporary impossibility are not defenses to LA Fitness’s
breach of its obligation to pay rent as a matter of law.” (Notice of Mot. at p.
2:14-16.) In addition, Gateway seeks summary adjudication of its Issue No. 4,
that “LA Fitness’s 30th affirmative defense fails because the doctrine of
impracticability and/or temporary impracticability do not provide a defense to
LA Fitness’s breach of its obligation to pay rent as a matter of law.” (Notice
of Mot. at p. 2:20-22.) 
In its Answer to the Complaint, Fitness’s nineteenth and twenty-fourth
affirmative defenses are for “impossibility.” These affirmative defenses allege
that “Landlord’s claims are barred by the doctrine of impossibility of
performance.” (Fitness’s Answer, ¶¶ 19, 24.) Fitness’s thirtieth affirmative
defense for “impracticability” alleges that “Landlord’s claims are barred by
the doctrine of impracticability.” (Fitness’s Answer, ¶ 30.) 
In Poway, the Court of Appeal held that “Fitness’s claims of impossibility and impracticability are
similarly unpersuasive. Impossibility is defined ‘as
not only strict impossibility but [also] impracticability because of extreme
and unreasonable difficulty, expense, injury, or loss involved.’ (Autry v. Republic Productions,
Inc. (1947) 30 Cal.2d 144, 148–149 [180 P.2d
888] (Autry); (see
also Mineral Park Land Co. v. Howard (1916)
172 Cal. 289, 293 [156 P. 458] [‘A thing is impossible in legal contemplation
when it is not practicable; and a thing is impracticable when it can only be
done at an excessive and unreasonable cost.’].) The defense of
impossibility may apply where, as here, a government order makes it unlawful
for a party to perform its contractual obligations.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings,
LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 893.)

The Poway Court further held that “Fitness
contends that the defense of impossibility applies here because the government closure
orders made it illegal for it to operate its fitness facility. But, as we have
explained, Fitness’s obligation under the lease was to pay rent, not to operate
a fitness facility. The government closure orders did not make it illegal for
Fitness to pay rent. In fact, one of the orders explicitly stated that it did
not relieve a tenant of the obligation to pay rent.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings, LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 893.) The Poway
Court found that “[n]othing about the pandemic or resulting closure orders has made
Fitness’s performance of its obligation to SVAP—paying rent—impossible…And [t]here is no impossibility of
performance where one party has rendered services as agreed and nothing remains
for the other party to do but pay the agreed compensation. The doctrine of impossibility therefore does not apply
here.” (Id. at pp. 893-894 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
Gateway asserts that here
too, “[t]he COVID Orders never made it illegal or impossible to pay
rent. As such, the defense does not apply.” (Mot. at p. 15:14-15.) In support
of this assertion, Gateway cites to March 16, 2020 and April 10, 2020 orders
issued by the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, as well as a
March 19, 2020 executive order issued by Governor Newsom and the “Memorandum on
Identification of Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers During Covid-19
Response” that is referenced in the Governor’s March 19, 2020 order. (Gateway’s
RJN, ¶¶ 2-3, Exs. A-D.) In the opposition, Fitness does dispute these points or
argue that there is an issue of fact as to its nineteenth, twenty-fourth, or
thirtieth affirmative defenses. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Gateway has met its
burden of demonstrating that Fitness’s nineteenth, twenty-fourth, and thirtieth
affirmative defenses have no merit, and that Fitness has
failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to these affirmative
defenses. 
C.    
Civil Code Section 1511(1)
In addition, Gateway seeks summary adjudication of its “Issue No. 3,”
that “LA Fitness’s 26th affirmative defense fails because Civil Code section 1511(1) does not provide a defense
to LA Fitness’s breach of its obligation to pay rent as a matter of law.”
(Notice of Mot. at p. 2:17-19.)  
In its Answer to the Complaint, Fitness’s twenty-sixth affirmative
defense is for “performance excused.” This affirmative defense alleges that
“Landlord’s claims are barred because Fitness’s performance and/or any delay in
performance is excused under the circumstances. See California
Civil Code Section 1511.” (Fitness’s Answer, ¶ 26.) Gateway notes that in
its Cross-Complaint, Fitness alleges that “[a] justiciable controversy exists
with respect to whether Fitness’s performance under the Lease is excused during
the Closure Periods under operation of California law, including, without
limitation, California Civil Code § 1511(1).” (Cross-Compl.,
¶ 77.) Gateway asserts that Civil Code Section 1511(1)
does not apply here. 
Civil Code Section 1511(1) provides that “[t]he want of performance of an obligation, or of an offer
of performance, in whole or in part, or any delay therein, is excused by the
following causes, to the extent to which they operate: 1. When such performance or offer is prevented or
delayed by the act of the creditor, or by the operation of law, even though
there may have been a stipulation that this shall not be an excuse; however,
the parties may expressly require in a contract that the party relying on the
provisions of this paragraph give written notice to the other party or parties,
within a reasonable time after the occurrence of the event excusing
performance, of an intention to claim an extension of time or of an intention
to bring suit or of any other similar or related intent, provided the
requirement of such notice is reasonable and just…”  
In Poway, the Court of
Appeal found that “Fitness also
contends that sections 1511, subdivisions 1 and 2
excuse its obligation to pay rent during the closure periods. SVAP counters that the trial court correctly
found that neither section applies here. We again agree with SVAP.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings, LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 894.) The Poway
Court found that “[a]s the trial
court correctly concluded, section 1511, subdivision 1
does not excuse Fitness’s performance because the pandemic and resulting
government orders did not prevent Fitness from performing its contractual
obligation to pay rent. Indeed, one of the orders explicitly stated that
commercial tenants (such as Fitness) remained obligated to pay their rent
despite a moratorium on commercial tenant evictions. Section
1511, subdivision 1 therefore does not excuse Fitness’s payment of rent.” (Id. at p. 894.) Gateway asserts that accordingly, Civil Code Section 1511(1) does not provide a defense
to Fitness in this case. 
In the
opposition, Fitness does not address Civil
Code section 1511(1) or assert that its twenty-sixth affirmative defense
has merit. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Gateway has met its
burden of demonstrating that Fitness’s twenty-sixth affirmative defense has no
merit, and that Fitness has failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact as to this affirmative defense. 
D.   
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
Gateway also seeks summary adjudication of its Issue No. 1, that “[t]he
3rd and 21st affirmative defenses in defendant Fitness International, LLC’s (LA
Fitness) answer fail because Plaintiff did not breach the covenant of quiet
enjoyment as a matter of law.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:11-13.) Fitness’s third
affirmative defense for “Landlord’s failure to perform” alleges that “Landlord
was unable to perform under the parties’ Lease. As a result, the Complaint and
each and every cause of action, fails.” (Fitness’s Answer, ¶ 3.) Fitness’s
twenty-first affirmative defense for “breaches by Landlord” alleges that
“Landlord’s claims are barred by its material breaches of the parties’ written
agreements and/or breaches of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”
(Fitness’s Answer, ¶ 21.) 
Gateway cites to paragraph 60 of Fitness’s Cross-Complaint, which
alleges that “Landlord is in breach of its covenant that Tenant shall have and
quietly enjoy the Premises for the Term set forth herein. Lease, § 19.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 60.) 
Gateway asserts that “a government order cannot cause a breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment by Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 16:5-6.) Gateway cites
to Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th
578, 588, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n the absence of language to the contrary, every lease contains an implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant
shall have quiet enjoyment and possession of the premises…The covenant of
quiet enjoyment insulates the tenant against any act or omission on the part of
the landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a tenant’s
right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the
tenancy.” (Internal
quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted.) Gateway asserts that “the
covenant of quiet enjoyment protects the tenant from wrongful interference by
the landlord…Here, the COVID-19 Orders were not the Plaintiff’s acts; rather,
they were imposed by the government.” (Mot. at p. 16:9-12, emphasis omitted.)[3]
In the opposition, Fitness asserts that “Landlord’s reliance on Andrews
is misplaced. The Court of Appeal in Andrews was discussing the ‘implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment,’ not the express covenant that is included in Section 19 of this Lease.” (Opp’n. at p. 9:10-12,
emphasis in original.) Fitness notes that the Andrews Court stated that
“[i]n the absence of language to the contrary, every lease contains
an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly
covenants that the tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession of the
premises.” (Andrews v.
Mobile Aire Estates, supra, 125
Cal.App.4th at p. 588 [underline
added, emphasis in original].) Both parties cite to Section 19 of the subject lease, which provides as
follows: 
 
“19 QUIET
ENJOYMENT. Tenant, upon fully complying with and promptly performing all of the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease on its part to be performed, and
upon the prompt and timely payment of all sums due hereunder, shall have and
quietly enjoy the Premises for the Term set forth herein, subject to all
provisions of this Lease and all matters of record against the Project.” (Lu
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p. 24.) 
But as noted by Gateway, Section 19 of
the lease provides that “Tenant, upon fully complying with and promptly
performing all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease on its part
to be performed, and upon the prompt and timely payment of all sums due
hereunder, shall have and quietly enjoy the Premises for the Term set forth
herein.” (Lu Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p. 24, underline added.) Gateway asserts that
“[n]ot only did LA Fitness agree to adhere to all applicable laws, it failed to
pay rent during the period it complains its rights of quiet enjoyment were
breached.” (Mot. at p. 16:14-16.) As set forth above, Mr. Lu states in his
declaration that “[f]rom April 2020 through March 2021 LA Fitness occupied the
leased premises but did not pay all rent due.” (Lu Decl., ¶ 4.) Fitness does
not appear to address this point in the opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Gateway has met its burden of demonstrating that Fitness’s third and twenty-first affirmative defenses have no merit,
and that Fitness has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to
these affirmative defenses. 
 

E.     Monthly
Installment Contract Issue 
Gateway also seeks summary adjudication of its “Issue No. 7,” that “[t]he
lease at issue in Plaintiff’s complaint and LA Fitness’s cross-complaint is not
a divisible monthly installment contract for purposes of the permanent excusal
of suspended rent payments.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 3:1-3.) Gateway asserts that
“[h]ere, LA Fitness remains liable for the unpaid rent…So, to avoid this
obvious problem, LA Fitness made the specious argument…that the Lease is a
divisible monthly installment contract such that Plaintiff is not entitled to
its rent for any month where a temporary frustration of purpose, impossibility,
or impracticability existed.” (Mot. at p. 17:1-5.) Gateway asserts that “a
monthly lease is only an installment contract for the purpose of the statute of
limitations.” (Mot. at p. 17:6-7, emphasis omitted.) 
In support of this assertion, Gateway cites to Tsemetzin v. Coast Federal Savings & Loan Assn. (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
1334, 1344, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]t is settled in California
that periodic monthly rental payments called for by a lease agreement
create severable contractual obligations where the duty to make each rental
payment arises independently and the statute begins to run on such severable
obligations from the time performance of each is due…As the court in Lee v. DeForest, stated: As to instalment contracts generally, the weight of
authority is to the effect that an action to recover any unpaid instalment must
be brought within the period of limitations after the particular instalment becomes payable under the
contract…It also has been held that the provisions of an express contract
[in this case, the lease], and not the entries in an account kept by plaintiff,
control the running of the statute.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted,
emphasis in original.) 
In the
opposition, Fitness does not appear to address or dispute Gateway’s assertion
that 
“[t]he
lease at issue in Plaintiff’s complaint and LA Fitness’s cross-complaint is not
a divisible monthly installment contract for purposes of the permanent excusal
of suspended rent payments.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 3:1-3.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Gateway has met its
burden of demonstrating 
that
summary adjudication should be granted in its favor as to Issue No. 7, and that
Fitness has failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to this issue. 
F.      Failure of
Consideration 
Gateway also seeks summary adjudication of its “Issue No. 6,” that
“[t]he doctrine of failure of consideration and/or temporary failure of
consideration do not provide a defense to LA Fitness’s breach of its obligation
to pay rent as a matter of law.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:26-28.) 
In its answer, Fitness’s eighth affirmative defense is for “failure of
consideration,” and alleges that “Landlord’s claims are barred in whole or in
part by its failure of consideration.” (Fitness’s Answer, ¶ 8.) Gateway asserts
that this defense is “neither available nor applicable as a matter of law.”
(Mot. at p. 17:16.) 
Gateway cites to Taliaferro v. Davis (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d
398, 410-411, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[f]ailure of consideration is
the failure to execute a promise, the performance of which has been exchanged
for performance by the other party…Failure of consideration does
not, however, vitiate the contract from the beginning; until rescinded or
terminated a contract once in effect remains in effect.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) Gateway asserts that “[h]ere, LA Fitness never
rescinded or terminated the Lease, Plaintiff never altered LA Fitness’s right
to occupy and use the premises, and LA Fitness remained on the Premises the
entirety of the time it asserts it is excused from paying rent.” (Mot. at p.
17:21-24.) As discussed, 
Mr. Lu states that “[f]rom
April 2020 through March 2021 LA Fitness occupied the leased premises but did
not pay all rent due,” and that “Plaintiff[4]
has remained in possession of the Premises the entire time it failed to pay
rent and has never attempted to rescind or terminate the Lease.” (Lu Decl., ¶¶
4, 8.) In the opposition, Fitness does
not address these points or assert that its eighth affirmative
defense has merit. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Gateway has met its
burden of demonstrating that Fitness’s eighth
affirmative defense has no merit, and that Fitness has failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to this affirmative defense. 
G.    Gateway’s Issues
Nos. 8-13
In the motion, Gateway also asserts that “alternatively, Plaintiff is
entitled to summary adjudication on individual claims and defenses.” (Mot. at
p. 18:6-7.) Gateway asserts that “[e]ach of LA Fitness’s affirmative claims and
each of its material defenses are barred as a matter of law, and summary
adjudication can be granted to individuals claims and defenses if necessary.”
(Mot. at p. 18:13-15.) Although it is not entirely clear, Gateway appears to
assert that in the alternative, the Court should grant summary adjudication as
to the causes of action alleged in Fitness’s Cross-Complaint.
 In light of the foregoing
discussion, the Court finds that summary adjudication is warranted in Gateway’s
favor as to Gateway’s Issues Nos. 1-7. Thus, it appears that Gateway’s
“alternative” request for adjudication of Gateway’s additional issues is
unnecessary. Moreover, as to Issues Nos. 8-13, Gateway’s notice of motion
provides as follows: 
 
“Issue No. 8: Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for breach of contract is barred as a matter of law. 
 
Issue No. 9: Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for common count (monies had and received) is barred as
a matter of law. 
 
Issue No. 10: Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for common count (monies paid by mistake) is barred as a
matter of law. 
 
Issue No. 11: Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for common count (monies paid and expended) is barred as
a matter of law.
 
Issue No. 12: Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action for declaratory relief (closure period) is barred as a
matter of law. 
 
Issue No. 13: Plaintiff’s
sixth cause of action for declaratory relief (ongoing restrictions) is barred
as a matter of law.” (Gateway’s Notice of Mot. at p.
3:4-15, emphasis added.) 
As noted by Fitness, Gateway defines “Plaintiff” as “Plaintiff Gateway
Pointe, LLC (Plaintiff).” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:4-5.) Fitness notes that
“[w]hile presumably a mistake, Landlord has sought summary adjudication that
its own claims are barred. This defect is a basis for denying the motion as to
these issues.” (Opp’n at p. 17:19-20.) This point is not addressed or disputed
by Gateway in the reply. Pursuant to California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1350,
subdivision (b), “[i]f summary
adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion
for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims
for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of
motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed
material facts.” 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Gateway has met
its burden of demonstrating that summary adjudication is warranted as to
Gateway’s Issues Nos. 8-13.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Gateway’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 
Gateway’s motion for summary adjudication is granted as to Gateway’s
Issues Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Gateway’s motion for summary adjudication
is denied as to Gateway’s Issues Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. 
Gateway is ordered to
provide notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  February 6, 2024                
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


