 Case Number:  22STCV22902    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CHRISTINA FULTON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ERIKA N. GIRARDI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV22902
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR DETERMINATION
  OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2023



 
On
September 6, 2023, John Kelley Courtney filed a motion for determination of good
faith settlement with Plaintiff Christina Fulton.  No objections were filed.
Any
party to an action with two or more joint tortfeasors may petition the court for
a determination of the issue of the good faith of a settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)  The court’s approval of the settlement furthers
two sometimes-competing policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs among the parties
at fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements.  (Erreca’s v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
1475, 1487.)  To demonstrate a lack of good
faith, a non-settling party must show that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of Section 877.6.  (Nutrition Now, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)  The Court
will typically consider: (1) the plaintiff’s (roughly) approximated total recovery;
(2) the settlor’s share of liability; (3) the size of the settlement at issue; (4)
the distribution of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (5) the usual discount
value when plaintiffs settle before trial; the settlor’s financial condition and
insurance policy limits; and (6) whether there is evidence of “collusion, fraud,
or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  These factors
will be evaluated accordingly to what information is available at the time of settlement.  (Ibid.)  “When no one objects, the barebones motion which
sets forth the ground for good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth
a brief background of the case is sufficient” for the Court to grant a motion for
determination of good faith settlement.  (City
of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.)
The
motion and counsel’s declaration set out the background of this case and the terms
of the settlement.  Under the settlement,
Courtney will pay $15,000.00 to Plaintiff in exchange for mutual releases of all
claims and the dismissal of this action against him with prejudice.  “Because Courtney’s demurrer to the original complaint
was sustained and there was an imminent threat of a second demurrer and/or motion
for summary judgment in response to the FAC, Plaintiff and Courtney agreed to settle
the case.”  (Motion at p. 6.)  There is no evidence of collusion or fraud in
the settlement.  No party opposed the motion.
Based
on the record presented and the lack of any objection, the Court GRANTS the application,
finds this settlement was made in good faith, and orders that any other joint tortfeasor
or co-obligor is barred from asserting further claims against John Kelley Courtney
for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 