 Case Number:  21STCV40237    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SIMON PARSAKAR, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SHLOMO MEIRI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV40237
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2023



 
On November 1, 2021, Plaintiff Simon Parsakar filed this
action against Defendant Shlomo Meiri for breach of lease.  Plaintiff later substituted Adriana Sahar LLC
for Doe 1 and Adriana Sahar Meiri for Doe 3.
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint.

The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiff
identifies the proposed amendments and provides a copy of the FAC.  (Motion at pp. 1-2; Shakouri Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A.)  The FAC adds alter ego allegations against Defendants
Adriana Sahar Meiri and Adriana Sahar LLC, and it adds eight causes of action.  The new causes of action are additional legal
theories for recovery of the same damages (unpaid rent) alleged in the original
Complaint.  Counsel’s declaration does not
state when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered or why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
(See California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)  However, the motion is unopposed and there is
no showing of prejudice.
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the unopposed motion for leave to file an amended
complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered
to file and serve the FAC within five days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 