 Case Number:  22STCV23104    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JENNIFER BORNOFF, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
STATE FARM GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV23104
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  SUPPLEMENTAL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL SUPPLEMENTAL
  RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET
THREE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2023



 
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff Jennifer
Bornoff filed a motion to compel Defendant State Farm General Insurance Company’s
supplemental responses to discovery.  This
single motion addresses Requests for Production, Set One; Special Interrogatories,
Set One; Request for Admissions, Set One; and Special Interrogatories, Set Two.  Plaintiff was required to file four motions to
compel (one for each set of discovery) and pay four filing fees.  Plaintiff is ORDERED to pay three additional filing
fees within five days.
On
August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant’s supplemental responses
to Requests for Production, Set Three.
REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, INTERROGATORIES, REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
On
December 27, 2022, Plaintiff served Request for Production, Set One (“RFP1”) and
Special Interrogatories, Set One (“SROG1”) on Defendant.  (Krauss Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendant served responses on February 9, 2023.  (Krauss Decl. ¶ 4; Reynolds Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff requested supplemental responses and
granted Defendant additional time to respond. 
(Krauss Decl. ¶¶ 5-8.)  On February
21, March 15, and March 24, 2023, Defendant granted Plaintiff extensions to file
her motions to compel further responses to RFP1 and SROG1 until May 29, 2023.  (Reynolds Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)  Defendant did not grant any other extensions for
motions to compel further responses to RFP1 and SROG1.  (Reynolds Decl. ¶ 7.)  On April 11, 2023, Defendant’s counsel stated
that there would be no further responses. 
(Krauss Decl. ¶ 9.)
On
March 17, 2023, Plaintiff served Requests for Admissions, Set One (“RFA1”) and Special
Interrogatories, Set Two (“SROG2”) on Defendant.  (Reynolds Decl. ¶ 8.)  On April 26, 2023, Defendant served responses.  (Reynlds Decl. ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer about RFA1
and SROG2 on May 5, 2023.  (Krauss Decl. ¶
12.)  Plaintiff did not request ant extensions
of time regarding RFA1 and SROG2.  (Reynolds
Decl. ¶ 10.)
In
the absence of a written agreement between the parties, a motion to compel further
responses to RFPs, interrogatories, and RFAs must be filed within 45 days after
the insufficient response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c).)  This deadline is jurisdictional.  (See Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409-1410.)
Plaintiff’s
deadline to file a motion for RFP1 and SROG1 was May 29, 2023, and her deadline
for RFA1 and SROG2 was June 10, 2023 (plus additional time for the weekend).  Plaintiff sent the final draft of the Joint Statement
to Defendant on June 20, 2023, after both of these deadlines, and did not file the
motion until July 24, 2023.  (Krauss Decl.
¶ 17.)  Plaintiff’s motion is therefore untimely.
Plaintiff
asks the Court to equitably toll the statute. 
(Motion at p. 4.)  “Plaintiff’s counsel
readily admits that technically per the code he did not ‘file’ the motion in a timely
manner.  However, Plaintiff’s counsel did
in fact reserve the date in a timely manner and more importantly, was in continual
discussions with the defendant to try and meet and confer to try and resolve the
outstanding issues.”  (Motion at p. 5.)  Because Plaintiff’s counsel was corresponding
with Defendant’s counsel, “[t]he fact that Plaintiff’s counsel did not get a hard
fast deadline in writing when he was acting in good faith pursuant to negotiations
would harm an innocent Plaintiff for trying to do the right thing.”  (Motion at p. 5.)
Plaintiff
cites no authority supporting the application of equitable tolling to the jurisdictional
bar for filing a motion to compel.  Nothing
prevented the parties from continuing to meet and confer to resolve the outstanding
issues after the timely filing of the motion. 
Such continuing discussions are encouraged, and in some cases a filed motion
becomes mooted and taken off calendar before the hearing date.  But ongoing meet-and-confer efforts do not excuse
Plaintiff’s failure to request additional extensions from Defendant and failure
to timely file the motion.
The
motion is DENIED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS, SET THREE
On
May 30, 2023, Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents, Set Three on
Defendant.  (Krauss Decl. ¶ 3.)  On July 7, 2023, Defendant served responses.  (Krauss Decl. ¶ 4.)  After meeting and conferring, Plaintiff filed
this motion on August 14, 2023.  (Krauss Decl.
¶¶ 5-6.)
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
RFP
No. 10 [sic] 42 requests “All performance evaluations of Dan Walder from the time
he was hired until the present.”  RFP No.
11 [sic] 43 requests “All performance evaluations of Todd Noakes from the time he
was hired until the present.”  Plaintiff’s
claims arise from Defendant’s failure to fully pay coverage benefits under her Retail
Store Policy with Business Liability Insurance. 
(E.g., FAC ¶¶ 2, 6, 26.)  Plaintiff
does not explain why she is entitled to a further response, stating only that “knowledge
and training of an employee in doing their job is very relevant.”  As Defendant notes, “Dan Walder and Todd Noakes
are third parties and have a right to privacy in their personnel files, including
their performance evaluations,” and Plaintiff “has not identified what wrongdoing
or incompetencies were allegedly done by Dan Walder and/or Todd Noakes in the adjustment
of her claims, which were fully paid.”  The
motion is DENIED for these RFPs.
RFP
No. 14 [sic] 46 requests “All DOCUMENTS used or consulted in adjusting PLAINTIFF’S
CLAIM FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS including but not limited to all, articles, treatises,
dictionaries, medical guides, literature and E-library documents of State Farm.”  Defendant stated that it would produce the relevant
sections of the Operation Guide applicable and in effect during the relevant timeframe
for handling of the underlying claim, and it identified specific Bates numbers.  Plaintiff contends that “[t]he documents provided
deal with Fire and Casualty and Fire Claims Practices and Procedures.  The claim is question is not a fire claim.  Defense counsel has stated that the provided procedures
are the same for break-ins and property damage claims.  Plaintiff requested a stipulation, but the defendant
has refused.”  Plaintiff’s skepticism about
Defendant’s representation is not good cause for further production of documents
that may not exist.  Defendant served a verified
response and produced documents.  The motion
is DENIED for this RFP.
RFP
No. 18 [sic] 50 requests “All DOCUMENTS of State Farms training materials (Videotaped,
recorded, written, or electronic), pertaining to any claims of loss including but
not limited to, property loss estimating and adjusting, fire or accident investigation,
fraud investigation, bodily injury investigation and evaluation, casualty claims
handling, time limit demand procedures.” 
Plaintiff contends that she is “seeking the training materials used by the
defendant to determine that the personnel handling the claims of individuals, such
as the plaintiff, are have [sic] been properly trained in the law and the procedures
for following the law.”  Plaintiff has not
shown good cause for this overbroad and largely irrelevant request.  Plaintiff’s insurance claim is not one for fire,
accident, fraud, or bodily injury.  The motion
is DENIED for this RFP.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 