 Case Number:  22STCV24227    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



K.A., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DOE 1,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV24227
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANT’S
  DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2023



 
On July 27, 2022, Plaintiff K.A.
filed this action against Defendant Doe 1 arising from childhood sexual assault.  Plaintiff alleges that in 1984, she was abducted,
assaulted, molested, and raped by Pastor A in Indiana, and Defendant was the California
corporation that governed the local church. 
(E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 3, 21-22.)  She
now brings claims for negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, intentional infliction
of emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress against Defendant
under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1.
On
September 6, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer. 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
Section
340.1 governs actions for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood
sexual assault, including actions “against any person or entity who owed a duty
of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity
was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to
the plaintiff” and actions “against any person or entity if an intentional act by
that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted
in the injury to the plaintiff.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 340.1, subd. (a); see Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (q) [reviving previously
barred claims].)  “Childhood sexual assault”
includes any act committed against the plaintiff that occurred when the plaintiff
was under the age of 18 years and that would have been proscribed by specific sections
of the Penal Code “or any prior laws of this state of similar effect at the time
the act was committed.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 340.1, subd. (d).)
Defendant
argues that all causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations because
section 340.1 does not apply.
Defendant
first relies on Code of Civil Procedure section 361, which states: “When a cause
of action has arisen in another State, or in a foreign country, and by the laws
thereof an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person by reason
of the lapse of time, an action thereon shall not be maintained against him in this
State, except in favor of one who has been a citizen of this State, and who has
held the cause of action from the time it accrued.”  (Demurrer at p. 3.)  However, section 340.1’s revival provision applies
“[n]otwithstanding any other law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (q).)  “[C]ourts
have held regarding a variety of subjects that a provision that includes such a
phrase controls over other provisions of law regarding the same subject.”  (Young v. Midland Funding LLC (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 63, 94.)  Section 361 does not
apply.
Next,
Defendant argues that if section 361 does not apply, the governmental interest analysis
from McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48 Cal.4th 68 (McCann) requires
application of Indiana’s, not California’s, statute of limitations.  (Demurrer at p. 3.)
“[I]n
those instances in which section 361 does not mandate application of another jurisdiction’s
statute of limitations or statute of repose the question whether the relevant California
statute of limitations (or statute of repose) or, instead, another jurisdiction’s
statute of limitations (or statute of repose) should be applied in a particular
case must be determined through application of the governmental interest analysis
that governs choice-of-law issues generally.” 
(McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th at p. 87.)  “‘In brief outline, the governmental interest
approach generally involves three steps. 
First, the court determines whether the relevant law of each of the potentially
affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular issue in question is the same
or different.  Second, if there is a difference,
the court examines each jurisdiction’s interest in the application of its own law
under the circumstances of the particular case to determine whether a true conflict
exists.  Third, if the court finds that there
is a true conflict, it carefully evaluates and compares the nature and strength
of the interest of each jurisdiction in the application of its own law ‘to determine
which state’s interest would be more impaired if its policy were subordinated to
the policy of the other state’ [citation] and then ultimately applies ‘the law of
the state whose interest would be more impaired if its law were not applied.”’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 87-88.)
Defendant
compares this case to the persuasive authority of Rodriguez v. Mahony (C.D.
Cal., Mar. 26, 2012, No. CV 10-02902-JST JEMX) 2012 WL 1057428 (Rodriguez).  (Demurrer at pp. 9-10.)  There, the California defendants (a priest and
Archdiocese) moved for judgment on the pleadings for section 340.1 claims brought
by a Mexican plaintiff who was sexually abused by another priest in Mexico.  (Rodriguez, supra, 2012 WL 1057428 at pp.
*1-2.)  The district court found that section
361 did not apply, so it applied the governmental interest analysis from McCann.  (Id. at pp. *6-11.)  For the first prong, the court found that there
were analogous torts under Puebla law, and there was no dispute that the statute
of limitations for similar causes of action there differed from the statute of limitations
applicable to the Plaintiff’s claims under California law.  (Id. at pp. *7-9.)
That
is also true here:  Plaintiff alleges that
she was 17 years old when she was assaulted in 1984.  (Complaint ¶ 1.)  Indiana currently has a two-year statute of limitations
for injury to person (such as Plaintiff’s claims for IIED and NIED) and a seven-year
statute of limitations for injury to a person that results from the sexual abuse
of a child.  (Ind. Code Ann. § 34-11-2-4(b).)  Therefore, Indiana law would bar Plaintiff’s claims,
in conflict with California law.
Because
there is a difference in law, next the Court must examine each jurisdiction’s interest
in the application of its own law under the circumstances of the particular case
to determine whether a true conflict exists. 
As the Rodriguez court recognized (Rodriguez, supra, 2012 WL 1057428,
at p. *9), California has an interest in applying its revival statute: “[T]he Legislature’s
goal in enacting subdivision (b)(2) was to expand the ability of victims of childhood
abuse to sue those responsible for the injuries they sustained as a result of that
abuse. . . . The overall goal of section 340.1 is to allow victims of childhood
sexual abuse a longer time period in which to bring suit against their abusers.  [Citation.] 
The legislative history makes this abundantly clear.  The statute has been amended numerous times since
its enactment in 1986, to enlarge the period for filing claims to hold molesters
accountable for their behavior so that they are not ‘off the hook’ as soon as their
victims reach age 21, [citation] [and] to extend the expanded limitations period
to actions not just against molesters, but against any person or entity who owed
a duty of care to the plaintiff, where a wrongful or negligent act by that person
or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual abuse.”  (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 545, internal quotation marks omitted.) 
On the other hand, Indiana also has an interest in applying its own statutes
of limitations for harms that occurred in Indiana.  (E.g., A.M. v. Roman Catholic Church (Ind.
Ct. App. 1996) 669 N.E.2d 1034, 1037 [“Statutes of limitation are favored because
they afford security against stale claims and promote the peace and welfare of society.  [Citation.] 
They are enacted upon the presumption that one having a well-founded claim
will not delay in enforcing it.”].)
Plaintiff
argues that the Rodriguez plaintiff conceded that a true conflict existed,
so that court had no occasion to engage with the California cases of Ashland,
Corondoni, or Nelson.  (Opposition
at p. 4.)  The Rodriguez court noted
that “there is no dispute that the statute of limitations for a cause of action
for illicit acts under Puebla law differs from that applicable to Plaintiff’s Common
Law Claims under California law.”  (Rodriguez,
supra, 2012 WL 1057428, at p. *8.)  Plaintiff
here does not expressly concede that there is a true conflict in the laws, but she
must.  There is no doubt that Indiana’s shorter
two-year or seven-year limitations periods have long passed, and they conflict with
California’s longer, revived limitations period in section 340.1.
Moreover,
Ashland and Nelson applied California’s shorter statutes of limitations
to claims brought by out-of-state plaintiffs against California defendants, noting
the policy intent to protect the state’s residents from stale claims.  (Ashland Chemical Co. v. Provence (1982)
129 Cal.App.3d 790, 794; Nelson v. International Paint Co. (9th Cir. 1983)
716 F.2d 640, 644-645.)  In Corondoni,
application of the foreign state’s law would not have protected the defendant, and
thus application of the California time period did not offend the other state’s
public policy.  (American Bank of Commerce
v. Corondoni (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 368, 373.)  That differs from this case, where the California
Defendant faces a longer statute of limitations period in California for claims
based on conduct and harm in Indiana—underlying conduct that is long past the applicable
limitations periods.
Finally,
for the third prong, the Court must consider the comparative impairment analysis.  In Rodriguez, the plaintiff was a resident
of Puebla, the abuser was a resident of Puebla, and the abuse and injury occurred
in Puebla.  (Rodriguez, supra, 2012
WL 1057428, at p. *10.)  Although the California
defendants’ conduct occurred entirely in California, “the tort for which Plaintiff
seeks to hold the California Defendants liable was completed and accrued in Puebla,”
so “Puebla’s interests would be most significantly impaired by a failure to apply
its statute of limitations to Plaintiff’s claims.”  (Ibid.)  “In comparison, California’s interest in applying
section 340.1 is relatively weak under the specific facts of this case, which involve
claims brought by a Plaintiff with no connection to California based on childhood
abuse that did not occur in California.  Moreover,
while, as outlined above, California has an interest in deterring the California
Defendants’ wrongful conduct, that interest will ‘only be “negligibly” advanced
if claims by nonresidents of California proceed in this forum.’”  (Id. at p. *11.)
Once
again, the same is true here.  “Plaintiff
is, and at all relevant times has been, a resident of Indiana.”  (Complaint ¶ 1.)  Pastor A sexually abused Plaintiff in Indiana.  (E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 21-31.)  Plaintiff attempts to hold Defendant liable for
Pastor A’s conduct in Indiana through its California-based operation, control, and
governance of local church branches, including the Indiana church of Plaintiff and
Pastor A.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 12-20.)  Like in Rodriguez, “California’s interest
in applying section 340.1 is relatively weak under the specific facts of this case,
which involve claims brought by a Plaintiff with no connection to California based
on childhood abuse that did not occur in California.”  (Rodriguez, supra, 2012 WL 1057428, at
p. *11.)
After
thorough consideration of the governmental interest analysis, the Court finds that
this action presents the same problem that borrowing statutes (like section 361)
were intended to address, and why the governmental interest analysis is required
when a borrowing statute does not apply: 
“A more problematic situation was presented, however, when the period provided
in the applicable statute of limitations of the forum state was longer than
that in the applicable statute of limitations in the state where the cause of action
arose.  In that setting, a plaintiff who failed
to timely file an action in the state in which the action arose would be provided
the opportunity to search out another jurisdiction in which the applicable period
under the relevant statute of limitations for the cause of action at issue was longer
and in which the action could be maintained—a classic example of questionable forum
shopping.”  (McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th
at p. 84.)
Accordingly,
the Court concludes that Indiana’s statutes of limitations must apply, and Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendant are time-barred.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
This
action is DISMISSED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 