 Case Number:  23STCP02068    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ROY LUBIT, M.D. PH.D., 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
FMB DEVELOPMENT, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Respondents.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP02068
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART AMENDED
  PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2023



 
On June 13, 2023, Petitioner
Roy Lubit, M.D. Ph.D. (derivatively on behalf of 7760 Romaine LLC and 1159 Formosa
LLC) filed a Petition to Compel Arbitration, Nominating and Appointing Arbitrator,
and For Costs against Respondents FMB Development LLC (“FMB”), Ilan Kenig, Elim
Management Inc. (“Elim”), and Joel Haggin, with 7760 Romaine LLC and 1159 Formosa
LLC as Nominal Respondents.  On July 21, 2023,
Petitioner filed an amended petition.  No
oppositions were filed.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Petitioner’s
request for judicial notice of grant deeds and deeds of trust is denied as irrelevant.
DISCUSSION
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration
has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
A.        There Is an Arbitrable Dispute.
The
Amended Petition alleges that on May 20, 20124, Petitioner, FMB, Elim, and Haggin
entered into the Formosa Joint Venture Agreement for the “purchase, new construction
and sale of the real property located at 1159 Formosa Avenue, West Hollywood, CA
90046” and “opening a new California LLC to hold 100% of the property named 1159
Formosa, LLC.”  (Amended Petition ¶ 19; Lubit
Decl., Ex. A.)  Under this agreement, it was
“[t]he responsibility of both FMB and Elim in the LLC” to, inter alia, “manage the
property purchase (FMB Only),” “manage all of the project development,” “manage
the day to day activity of the LLC,” “oversee the budget until property is completed
and sold,” “oversee and supervise the construction in the field until property is
completed and sold,” and “manage all books and records.”  (Amended Petition ¶ 21; Lubit Decl., Ex. A, §
3.2.)
On
September 9, 2014, Petitioner, FMB, Elim, and Haggin entered into the Romaine Joint
Venture Agreement for the “purchase, new construction and sale of the real property
located at 7760 Romaine Street, West Hollywood, CA 90046” and “opening a new California
LLC to hold 100% of the property named 7760 Romaine, LLC.”  (Amended Petition ¶ 37; Lubit Decl., Ex. B.)  Under this agreement, “FMB, and Elim and/or Joel
will be the managing members of The LLC” and it will be “[t]he responsibility of
both FMB and Joel in the LLC” to, inter alia, “manage the property purchase (FMB
Only),” “manage all of the project development,” “manage the day to day activity
of the LLC,” “oversee the budget until property is completed and sold,” “oversee
and supervise the construction in the field until property is completed and sold,”
and “manage all books and records.”  (Amended
Petition ¶ 39; Lubit Decl., Ex. B, § 4.)
Both
agreements contain arbitration provisions: 
“Any dispute arising under this Agreement, or under any instrument made to
carry out the terms of this Agreement, shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance
with the arbitration laws of the State of California (Civ. Proc. Code, §§ 1280 et
seq.).”  (Lubit Decl., Ex. A, § 10.1; Lubit
Decl., Ex. B, § 22.)
The
description of the dispute shows that it is within the scope of the agreements,
and therefore it is subject to arbitration. 
Accordingly, the request to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
B.        The Request For Nomination of an Arbitrator
is Premature.
Petitioner
asks the Court to nominate five persons qualified to act as arbitrators.  (Amended Petition at p. 13.)
“If
the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that method
shall be followed.  If the arbitration agreement
does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement
who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method
of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed.  In the absence of an agreed method, or if the
agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator
appointed fails to act and his or her successor has not been appointed, the court,
on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)
The
agreements do not specify a method for appointing an arbitrator.  On February 16, 2023, Petitioner’s counsel emailed
Respondents’ counsel to request arbitration. 
(Mass Decl., Ex. R at p. 2.)  Counsel
also requested Respondents’ preference of AAA, Judicate West, ADR Services, or JAMS.  (Ibid.)  Respondents’ counsel responded, “[M]y clients
object to your proceeding in the manner described below, and will object to any
unauthorized filings with any tribunal unilaterally selected by your client.  Should any arbitration not be properly commenced,
my clients are prepared to seek appropriate relief in the appropriate court, including
available sanctions.”  (Ibid.)  Petitioner’s counsel responded, “Refusing to select
an arbitration forum is not reasonable or appropriate.  We will not allow your clients to unilaterally
refuse to select an arbitration forum. . . . Therefore, either select a forum by
February 24 or hold your peace.  If you refuse
to select a forum by February 24, we will be forced to file an action in Superior
Court to compel arbitration.”  (Mass Decl.,
Ex. R at p. 1.)
Respondents’
objection to proceeding in arbitration at all is not the absence or failure of an
agreed method.  Before the Court nominates
or appoints an arbitrator, the parties should attempt to agree on a method of appointing
an arbitrator.  Court nomination or appointment
is premature at this time.
The
request for nomination of an arbitrator is DENIED.  If the parties do not agree on a method of appointing
an arbitrator, then a party may file a new petition in a new action for appointment
of an arbitrator.
C.        Petitioner Is Entitled to $495.00 in Costs.
Petitioner
seeks his costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 1293.2, which provides that
the court shall award costs upon any judicial proceeding on a petition to compel
arbitration.  The Court’s order on this independent
Petition, with no underlying complaint or continuing judicial proceedings, will
terminate the action.  (See Domestic Linen
Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 180, 187.)  Thus, Petitioner is entitled to his costs.
Petitioner
requests $2,572.40 in costs.  (Amended Petition
¶ 76.)  Of these costs, $2,077.40 is for “expected
service and printing fees.”  (Mass Decl. ¶
28(c).)  Printing or photocopying costs are
not allowable costs.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (b)(3).)  Petitioner does not
distinguish between the service and printing costs, so the Court cannot determine
what allowable costs were actually incurred for only service.
The
request for costs is GRANTED IN PART.  Petitioner
is entitled to $495.00 in costs from Respondents ($435.00 filing fee plus $60.00
motion fee).
CONCLUSION
The
Amended Petition is GRANTED IN PART.
Petitioner’s
claims against Respondents are ordered to arbitration.
The
request for nomination of an arbitrator is DENIED.
The
request for costs is GRANTED IN PART.
This
action based on this Amended Petition is DISMISSED with prejudice.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 