 Case Number:  22STCV00668    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE LUIS NAZAR, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GREG FERNANDEZ, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV00668
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; GRANTING APPLICATION TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2023



 
On January 7, 2022, Plaintiff Jose Luis Nazar filed this
action against Defendants Greg Fernandez, Robert Conrad, Eric Bachkoff, Eric Cherry,
Martin Cherry, Joseph Randazza, Ring Pros LLC, Telco, and Champion Communications
Inc.
A non-jury trial is scheduled for October
23, 2023.
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).  Greg Fernandez, Ring Pros LLC, Telco, and Champion
Communications Inc. filed an opposition.
The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiff
identifies the proposed amendments and provides a copy of the FAC.  (Zalduendo Decl. ¶ 5; Zalduendo Decl., Ex. A].)  The FAC removes Robert Conrad, Eric Bachkoff,
Eric Cherry, Martin Cherry, and Joseph Randazza as defendants; and it removes the
causes of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Conversion of Ownership of the Number,
Replevin, Concealment, Appointment of a Receiver, and Quantum Meruit.  Although these dismissals could be done without
filing an amended complaint, Plaintiff also proposes additional amendments to the
remaining causes of action.  (Zalduendo
Decl. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff’s new counsel in July
2023 “determined that the Complaint did not reflect the case [Plaintiff] would be
bringing to trial,” and they met and conferred with defense counsel beginning on
August 11, 2023.  (Zalduendo Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.)  The request was not made earlier because the parties
had previously been focused on settlement, and “[i]t was not until new counsel had
come into this case, and trial appeared to be a reality, that the parties began
in earnest to take action in this case.” 
(Zalduendo Decl. ¶ 11.)
Greg
Fernandez, Ring Pros LLC, Telco, and Champion Communications Inc. argue that Plaintiff
unreasonably delayed in seeking to amend. 
(Opposition at pp. 2-3.)  However,
they do not show prejudice from the amendments. 
Although numerous, the amendments do not substantially change the facts or
enlarge the issues in this case.
Because
there is no showing of actual prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended
complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered
to file and serve the FAC within five days.
APPLICATION TO APPEAR PRO
HAC VICE
Thomas
M. Johnson, Jr. seeks to be admitted pro hac vice to represent Plaintiff Jose Luis
Nazar in this action.
An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction who is not be a resident of California,
regularly employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in California may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  The attorney must
a verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State
Bar of California at its San Francisco office. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c).)  The applicant must also pay a $50.00 fee to the
State Bar of California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(e).)
The
application must state (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of
each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone
number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d).)
The
application complies with the requirements, and the $500.00 application fee has
been paid.  (Gov. Code, § 70617, subd. (e)(1).)
Accordingly,
the application for admission pro hac vice is GRANTED.
On
or before October 3, 2024, counsel must pay the annual renewal fee of $500.00.  (Gov. Code, § 70617, subd. (e)(2).)
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Annual Pro Hac Vice Renewal Fees by Thomas M. Johnson,
Jr. is scheduled for 10/04/2024 at 9:00 AM in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse
(October 4, 2024).
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 