  Case Number:  23CHCV01560    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/22/24     Case    Name:  Golden Pro Insurance    Services, Inc. v. AAA Merchant Servies; Aimee Johnson; CardConnect, LLC; and    Does 1-100     Case    # 23CHCV01560      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 22, 2024    MOTION TO DISMISS  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01560    Motion  filed: 1/23/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants AAA Merchant Services,  Aimee Johnson, and CardConnect, LLC  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Golden Pro Insurance  Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order dismissing the action, or in the alternative, staying all proceedings  based on a forum selection clause.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against  Defendants AAA Merchant Services, Aimee Johnson,  Fiserv, Credit Risk Monitoring, and Does 1 through 100, alleging (1)  Conversion, (2) Common Counts, (3) Fraud, and (4) Negligence.   On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff  filed its Amendment to Complaint form, substituting Defendants Fiserv and  Credit Risk Monitoring with their true name, CardConnect LLC. Subsequently, on April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal,  dismissing Defendant CardConnect LLC, which was entered on the same day.   On January 23, 2024, Defendants AAA Merchant Services,  Aimee Johnson, and CardConnect LLC (later dismissed) (collectively,  “Defendants”) filed their instant Amended Motion to Dismiss (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff filed its Opposition on April 4, 2024. Subsequently, on April 15,  2024, Defendants filed their Reply.    ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure § 418.10(a)(2)  provides, “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead  or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve  and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes…(2) To  stay or dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(2).)   Code of Civil Procedure § 410.30(a),  provides, “When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in  the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum  outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in  part on any conditions that may be just.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30(a).)   The procedure for enforcing a forum selection clause is a  motion to stay or dismiss for forum non conveniens. (Berg v. MTC Electronics  Technologies Co. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.)   A.     Motion to  Dismiss   Defendants invoke the forum selection clause in the Merchant  Processing Application and Agreement (the “Agreement”) entered into between  Plaintiff and Defendant CardConnect LLC and non-party BBVA USA. The forum selection  clause states:    “We  have substantial facilities in the State of New York and many of the services  provided under this Agreement are provided from these facilities. The exclusive  venue for any actions or claims arising under or related to this Agreement  shall be in the appropriate state of federal court located in Suffolk County,  New York.”    (Maravent Decl., Ex. “A,” §  48.2.)   In California, “forum selection clauses are valid and may be  given effect, in the court's discretion and in the absence of a showing that  enforcement of such a clause would be unreasonable.” (Smith, Valentino &  Smith, Inc. v. Superior Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 491, 496 [“courts possess  discretion to decline to exercise jurisdiction in recognition of the parties'  free and voluntary choice of a different forum”; policy favoring access to California  courts by resident plaintiffs “is satisfied in those cases where … a plaintiff  has freely and voluntarily negotiated away his right to a California forum.” (id.  at p. 495)].)   The burden of proof is on the plaintiff, and the factors  involved in traditional forum non conveniens analysis do not control. (Intershop  Communications AG v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 191, 198 (Intershop  Communications).) “Instead, the forum selection clause is presumed valid  and will be enforced unless the plaintiff shows that enforcement of the clause  would be unreasonable under the circumstances of the case.” (Ibid.; see  also Furda v. Superior Court, (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 418, 424–425 [“the  existence of a contractual forum selection clause requires a court to decline  jurisdiction under … section 410.30, absent a showing that enforcement would be  unfair or unreasonable”].)    1)       Standing   Plaintiff  argues that Defendants lack standing to invoke the forum selection clause as  they are not parties to the Agreement. (Opp’n., at 3.) However, the Court finds  this argument unpersuasive.    Courts  have held in cases, where the alleged conduct is closely related to the  contractual relationship, that the forum selection clause of the agreement is  enforceable for the benefit of non-signatories to the contract. (Lu v.  Dryclean-U.S.A. of California, Inc., (1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 1490, 1494.)   “The key to the closely related test is whether the  nonsignatories were close to the contractual relationship, not whether they  were close to the third party [signatory].” (Bugna v. Fike (2000) 80  Cal.App.4th 229, 235.)   Here,  Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that “Aimee Johnson and AAA Merchant Services,  solicited credit card processing services from Plaintiff.... As part of their  solicitation, they analyzed the payment history of Plaintiff ... and  represented that Defendants ... would promptly be crediting the full payments  due without delay. Based on the representations by Defendants ... Plaintiff  retained the credit card processing services[,]” (Compl., ¶¶ 9-10), supporting  the finding that Defendants were key transaction participants who negotiated,  evaluated, and put together the transaction. Moreover, Plaintiff also pleads  that “each of the Defendants was the agent, servant, representative or employee  of each of the other Defendants, and at all times herein mentioned, was acting  within the scope and course of that agency or employment” (Id., ¶ 7),  and that “[t]he conduct of the Defendants, and each of them ... in providing  those services [under the Agreement] fell below the standard of care of a  credit card service provider.” (Id., ¶ 37.) Consequently, it is evident  that Defendants, although not signatories, were closely related to the  contractual relationship.   Furthermore,  Plaintiff argues that Defendants may not enforce the forum selection clause as  Plaintiff has rescinded the Agreement pursuant to Civil Code section  1689(b)(1), the effect of which renders the Agreement void ab initio, citing Weltman  v. Kaye (1959) 167 Cal.App.2d 607. (Opp’n., at 3.)    The  Court notes that Civil Code section 1689(b)(1) provides that “A party to a  contract may rescind the contract in the following cases: (1) if the consent of  the party rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him, was given  by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence[.]”    Here,  Defendants point out that their dispute over Plaintiff’s fraud allegation,  effectually contest the grounds for Plaintiff’s unilateral rescission under  Civil Code section 1689(b)(1). Accordingly, the effect of Plaintiff’s  rescission and whether it was justified will still need to be determined by the  Court.   Therefore,  the Court determines that Plaintiff’s contention for Defendants’ lack of  standing is unconvincing.   2)       Underlying  Disputes   Plaintiff  contends that the underlying disputes of this action do not arise from or  relate to the Agreement because the fraud and/or negligence occurred before  these ever was any agreement. (Opp.’n. at 3.)   The  Court notes that established precedents do not support a notion that a forum  selection clause is necessarily inapplicable simply because the alleged  tortious conduct happened before the contract at issue was signed. Rather, the  focus is the relationship between the claims and the scope of the forum  selection clause.   “We first note  that forum selection clauses can be equally applicable to contractual and tort  causes of action. [Citations.] Whether a forum selection clause applies to tort  claims depends on whether resolution of the claims relates to interpretation of  the contract. [Citations.]” (Manetti–Farrow, Inc. v. Gucci  America, Inc., (1988) 858 F.2d 509, 514.)   Here, the  scope of the forum selection clause, by its express terms, encompasses “any  actions or claims arising under or related to this Agreement.” (Maravent Decl.,  Ex. “A,” § 48.2.)                It is apparent that Plaintiff’s  claim for Conversion, Common Count, Fraud, and Negligence necessarily arise out  of the Agreement. According to Plaintiff’s allegation in its Complaint, “the  damages herein alleged were the natural and probable result of a prior  Agreement,” (Compl., ¶ 8.) The resolution of the Conversion claim requires  interpretation of the Agreement to demonstrate Plaintiff’s ownership of the  payment due or Defendant’s disposition of the funds inconsistent with  Plaintiff’s rights. Similarly, Plaintiff’s causes of action for Fraud and  Negligence necessarily require interpretation of the Agreement to establish the  elements of misrepresentation and standard of care. The Common Counts claim  necessarily arises out the Agreement as Plaintiff seeks the return of its  $132,789.32 payments received through the contracted credit card processing  service. It is evident that these underlying disputes are all related to the  Agreement and require interpretation of its terms.               Consequently, the Court concludes  that the forum selection clause applies to Plaintiff’s claims.   3)       Reasonableness              i. Mandatory  vs. Permissive Forum Selection Clause   “A mandatory forum selection clause  ... is generally given effect unless enforcement would be unreasonable or unfair.”  (Animal Film, LLC v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc. (2011) 193  Cal.App.4th 466, 471.) “To be mandatory, a clause must contain  language that clearly designates a forum as the exclusive one.” (Korman v.  Princess Cruise Lines, Ltd. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 206, 215.)   “[T]he party  opposing enforcement of a mandatory forum selection clause ordinarily bears a heavy burden to  show enforcement would be unreasonable or  unjust[.]” (Wimsatt v. Beverly Hills Weight etc. International Inc.  (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1519-1520.)    Here, it is  apparent that the forum selection clause is mandatory, as it employs the term  “exclusive venue.”    ii. Right to  Jury Trial    Courts will not enforce a forum selection  clause that “substantially diminish[es] the rights of California residents” or  deprives “California resident[s]” of public policy protections. (EpicentRx,  Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 890, 899-900 (EpicentRx),  review granted.) “[T]he burden is reversed when the underlying  claims are based on statutory rights the Legislature has declared to be  unwaivable. In that instance, the party seeking to enforce the forum selection clause has the burden to show enforcement  would not diminish unwaivable California statutory rights, otherwise a forum selection clause could be used to force a plaintiff  to litigate in another forum that may not apply California law.” (Verugo v.  Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 144.)   Plaintiff  maintains that California courts will not enforce a contractual choice of law  and venue as it conflicts with a fundamental policy of this state – specifically  that the right to jury trial cannot be waived pre-dispute – warranting the  application of burden shifting. (Opp’n., at 4.) Defendants posit that given the Supreme  Court has now granted review of EpicentRx’s ruling, the Court should stay this  case until the Supreme Court issues its review on this issue. (Reply, at 5.)   The order granting review specifically indicated that the EpicentRx opinion may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but  also for the limited purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in  authority that would in turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion  under Auto Equity  Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456. (Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 8.1115(e)(3).) The Court hereby exercises its discretion  and finds EpicentRx persuasive.   In  line with the ruling in EpicentRx, the Court concludes  that enforcement of a forum selection clause that causes a litigant to waive  their unwaivable rights to a jury trial, is in contravention of California  public policy and will not be enforced.   Therefore,  the Motion to Dismiss is DENIED.   CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Motion to Dismiss is DENIED.Moving  party is to give notice.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Dept.    F49      Date:    4/22/24     Case    Name:  Golden Pro Insurance    Services, Inc. v. AAA Merchant Servies; Aimee Johnson; CardConnect, LLC; and    Does 1-100     Case    # 23CHCV01560      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 22, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01560    Motion  filed: 1/19/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants AAA Merchant Services,  Aimee Johnson, and CardConnect, LLC  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Golden Pro Insurance  Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended Complaint.[1]    TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is SUSTAINED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against  Defendants AAA Merchant Services, Aimee Johnson,  Fiserv, Credit Risk Monitoring, and Does 1 through 100, alleging (1)  Conversion, (2) Common Counts, (3) Fraud, and (4) Negligence.   On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff  filed its Amendment to Complaint form, substituting Defendants Fiserv and  Credit Risk Monitoring with their true name, CardConnect LLC. Subsequently, on April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal,  dismissing Defendant CardConnect LLC, which was entered on the same day.   On January 19, 2024, Defendants AAA Merchant Services, Aimee  Johnson, and CardConnect LLC (later dismissed) (collectively, “Defendants”)  filed their instant Demurrer (the “Demurrer”). Plaintiff filed its Opposition  on April 4, 2024. Subsequently, on April 15, 2024, Defendants filed their  Reply.    ANALYSIS “It is black letter law  that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A general  demurrer is proper, and typically used, where the plaintiff fails to allege  “facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e); Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995,  1004.) “The sufficiency of a  cause of action is evaluated by presuming all of the material factual  allegations in the complaint are true.” (Aubry v. TriCity Hospital Dist.  (1992) 2 Cal 4th 962, 966 – 967 (Aubry).) In ruling on a demurrer, a  court may consider facts that are properly subject to judicial notice.” (Arroyo  v. Plosay, 225 Cal. App. 4th 279.) In ruling on a demurrer, the allegations  of the complaint must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial  justice between the parties. (Glennen v. Allergan, Inc. (2016) 247  Cal.App.4th 1, 6.) Nevertheless, while "[a] demurrer admits all facts  properly pleaded, [it does] not [admit] contentions, deductions or conclusions  of law or fact." (George v. Automobile Club of Southern California  (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120, 135.) Additionally, “[a] complaint otherwise  good on its face is subject to demurrer when facts judicially noticed render it  defective.” (Evans v. City of Berkeley (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1, 6.) “It is error for a trial  court to sustain a demurrer when the plaintiff has stated a cause of action  under any possible legal theory. (Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn.  (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 103.) And it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a  demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable  possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment. (Blank  v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)” Aubry, supra, 2 Cal.  4th at 967.) A.     Judicial  Notice   The  Court may take judicial notice of the redacted Agreement pursuant to Evidence  Code section 452, subdivision (h).  Section 452(h) provides that the Court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions that  are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by  resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code, § 452,  subd. (h).)    Pursuant  to Section 453 of the Evidence Code, the trial court “shall take judicial  notice of any matter specified in Section 452 if a party requests it and: (a)  Gives each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the  pleadings or otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the  request; and (b) Furnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it  to take judicial notice of the matter. (Evid. Code, § 453.)   Defendants request the Court  to take judicial notice of a redacted version of the Merchant Processing  Application and Agreement and incorporated Program Guide (collectively, the  “Agreement”). Defendants maintain that the Agreement should be considered in the  stage of demurrer as Plaintiff refers to the Agreement in its Complaint.    The Court notes that the  Complaint does not include a cause of action for breach of contract, nor does  Plaintiff attach the Agreement verbatim. The allegations that Defendants refer  to simply plead to the effect that Plaintiff “retained the credit card processing  services” (see, e.g., Compl., ¶ 10), and “utilized the credit card processing  services they had purchased from Defendants.” (see, Compl., ¶ 11.) These  allegations may be inferred as to the existence of the Agreement; however, it  is evident that the legal effect of the Agreement, including its terms and  enforceability, is clearly in dispute, particularly in light of the fraud  allegations.     The Evidence Code section 452 subdivision (h)  only authorizes the Court to take judicial notice of “[f]acts and  propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute.” Consequently, the  Agreement does not fall within the scope authorized by this section.   Therefore, the Court DENIES the request to take  judicial notice of the Agreement.   B.      Choice of  Law   Defendants seek to invoke  the Choice of Law provision in the Agreement. Moreover, Defendants maintain  that the outcome will be the same even if the California law is applied. (Dem.,  at 3, fn. 4.)   Since the Court has denied  the request to take judicial notice of the Agreement, any provisions therein,  including the Choice of Law, cannot to be considered by the Court in reviewing  the Demurrer.    Therefore, the Court will  apply California law in its review of the Demurrer.   C.     First Cause  of Action - Conversion   “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over  the property of another. The elements of a conversion are: (1) the plaintiff's  ownership or right to possession of the property at the time of the conversion;  (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property  rights; and (3) damages. It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of  the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or  ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the  property to his own use.”  (Farmers  Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 451-452; see also Prakashpalan  v. Engstrom, Lipscomb and Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1135; PCO,  Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP  (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.)   Defendants  argue that Plaintiff does not and cannot establish the first element of  conversion, namely the right to possession of the property at issue. (Dem., at  4.) Defendants reference a provision of the Agreement entered into by  Plaintiff, arguing that the funds at issue were not immediately entitled to  Plaintiff as they are subject to CardConnect's right to evaluate and establish  a reserve account. (Dem., at 4.)   The  Court turns to assess the sufficiency of pleading. In its Complaint, Plaintiff  alleges that it retained Defendants’ credit card processing services based on  Defendants’ representation that they would promptly credit the full payment due  without delay.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff further pleads that it confirmed the  immediate possession within a few days when utilizing Defendants’ credit card  processing services, Defendant interfered with Plaintiff’s right to possession  for $132,789.32 for many months.” (Id., ¶ 11-13.)    The  Court finds that Plaintiff sufficiently pleaded the elements of the action. Defendants’  argument essentially disputes Plaintiff’s factual allegation of its right of  possession, however, as the Court has explained previously, at the stage of  demurrer, it is required to presume all the material factual allegations in the  complaint as true (Aubry, supra, 2 Cal 4th at 966-967), without  weighting or determining the credibility of conflicting evidence.    Moreover,  Plaintiff acknowledges in its Opposition that Defendant CardConnect LLC has  returned the last of the funds that it had been withholding “for many months.”  (Compl., ¶ 11.) The Court notes that this development does not automatically  render the Conversion claim moot, as the delay in releasing the funds may  constitute conversion. (See Greif v. Sanin (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 412,  [The vendor committed conversion by delaying for almost two years to release  purchaser’s funds deposited in escrow.])       Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the First Cause of Action.   D.    Second Cause of Action – Common Counts   Plaintiff  acknowledges that this cause of action is now moot as CardConnect LLC has  returned the last of the funds at issue.    Accordingly,  the Demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without LEAVE TO  AMEND.   E.      Third Cause  of Action – Fraud   A claim for fraud must plead all of the following elements: (1)  misrepresentation; (2)¿knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4)  justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.   (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123,  128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186  Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.)  Fraud actions are subject to  strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc.  v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Particularity requires facts that show how,  when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)  12¿Cal.4th 631, 645 (Lazar).)   The  Complaint alleges that “[w]ithin the last 2 years, Defendants, AIMEE JOHNSON  and AAA MERCHANT SERVICES, as the authorized agents of Defendants ... solicited  credit card processing services from Plaintiff ... As part of their  solicitation, they analyzed the payment history of Plaintiff ... and  represented that Defendants ... would promptly be crediting the full payments  due without delay.” (Compl., ¶ 9.)   Defendants  argue that the Complaint lacks particularity as to the identification of  individuals who made the representation. (Dem., at 6.) Defendants refer to  paragraph 9 of the Complaint, as shown above, and point out that the Plaintiff  uses “they” without naming specific individuals. (Ibid.) Contrary to  Defendants’ argument, it is evident that Plaintiff’s Complaint names at least  one individual Aimee Johnson in the same paragraph and identifies other  parties. Thus, Defendants’ argument on this issue is unpersuasive.   Additionally,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff does nothing to address the argument and law  that Plaintiff’s alleged misrepresentations are directly contradicted by the  terms of the Agreement, citing Martinian v. Olivier (2015) 2015  WL9702548, at 2. Notably, the Martinian Court considers a motion for  summary judgment, which applies a different standard compared to the review of  demurrer. As explained previously, the contradicting terms of the Agreement are  not considered at this stage.   Defendants  further argue that the level of requisite intent is not sufficiently stated in  the Complaint. (Reply, at 3.)    The  Court finds that the pleading regarding the element of Defendant’s knowledge of  falsity is severely deficient. The Complaint merely asserts that “[Defendant]  knew they were false when said representations were made.” (Compl., 27.) This  allegation is speculative and amounts to a mere conclusion of fact, which must  not be admitted in the review of a demurrer. (George v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120, 135.)   Based  on this, the Court SUSTAINS with LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Third Cause of  Action.   F.      Fourth Cause  of Action – Negligence   The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty,  breach of that duty, proximate cause, and damages. (Peredia v. HR Mobile  Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)    Owing a  duty of care to the plaintiff is an indispensable prerequisite to the  imposition of liability for negligence. (Richards v. Stanley (1954) 43  Cal.2d 60, 63.)  A duty is an  “obligation, recognized by the law, requiring the actor to conform to certain  standard of conduct, for the protection of others against unreasonable risks.”  (Hilyar v. Union Ice Co. (1955) 45  Cal. 2d 30, 36-37.)   Defendants  argue that Plaintiff failed to plead that the remaining Defendants AAA Merchant  Services and Aimee Johnson owed a duty to Plaintiff, as they “were not  Plaintiff’s ‘credit card services provider,’ CardConnect was.” (Dem., at 7.)   The  Court agrees with Defendants and finds that the Complaint has not pleaded  sufficient factual allegations to show AAA Merchant Services and Aimee Johnson  owes a duty to Plaintiff. In its Opposition, Plaintiff does not respond to the argument  on insufficiency, instead merely asserts that “[i]f the misrepresentation which  forms the basis for the Fraud claim are found not to be intentional, then they  were negligent, to wit, made with a failure to exercise reasonable care.” (Opp’n.,  at 6.) However, negligence and negligent misrepresentation are two distinct  causes of action. Even though the pleading is liberally construed, such liberal  construction does not justify creating a new cause of action that is not  explicitly alleged in the Complaint.    Therefore,  the Court SUSTAINS without LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the Fourth Cause  of Action.   CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Demurrer is SUSTAINED without LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Second Cause of Action -  Common Counts, and the Fourth Cause of Action - Negligence.   Defendants’  Demurrer is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Third Cause of  Action - Fraud.   Plaintiff  is ordered to file an amended Complaint as to the Fraud Cause of Action within  20 days.   Defendants’  Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the First Cause of Action - Conversion.    Moving  party is to give notice.     