 Case Number:  20STCV42695    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



FOUNTAIN AVENUE TOWNLOFTS, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COPA, LLC et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV42695
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
Date: 
  December 13, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



 
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Copa, LLC (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of alleged defects in the development and construction of a
condominium development (the “Property”). 
Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”) was filed on November 5, 2020
and alleges: (1) violation of Civil Code section 896; (2) breach of express
warranties; (3) breach of implied warranties; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; and
(5) breach of declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions.
 
In
relevant part, the Complaint alleges: Moving Defendant oversaw the development
and construction of the Property. 
(Complaint ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff’s
initial board of directors consisted entirely of Moving Defendant’s agents and
employees.  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  Numerous defects in the construction of the
Property have caused Plaintiff damages. 
(See Complaint ¶ 16.) 
 
Moving
Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment/adjudication (the “Motion”) on
the ground that there are no triable issues of material fact regarding
Plaintiff’s claims because each cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Moving Defendant’s Request for
Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
objections to the Declaration of David N. Bregman (“Bregman Decl.”) are
SUSTAINED in their entirety. 
 
Plaintiff’s
objections to the Declaration of David Essey (“Essey Decl.”) are OVERRULED. 
 
Moving
Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Shane Neugass (“Neugass Decl.”)
are OVERRULED. 
 
Moving
Defendant’s objection to the Declaration of Harvey Kreitenberg (“Kreitenberg
Decl.”) is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving
Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Jeffrey D. Tung (“Tung Decl.”) are
OVERRULED. 
 
Moving
Defendant’s objection to the Declaration of Jesus Nunez is SUSTAINED.
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts
liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)       
 
Civil
Code Section 941
            Under Civil Code section 941, subdivision
(a), except as specifically set forth in this title, no action may be
brought to recover under this title more than 10 years after substantial
completion of the improvement but not later than the date of recordation of a
valid notice of completion.  (Civ. Code §
941, subd. (a).)  The limitation
prescribed by this section may not be asserted by way of defense by any person in actual
possession or the control, as owner, tenant or otherwise, of such an
improvement, at the time any deficiency in the improvement constitutes the
proximate cause for which it is proposed to make a claim or bring an action.  (Id., subd. (c).)  


In support of the Motion, Moving Defendant provides evidence that Plaintiff
is comprised of owners of condominium units, buildings, improvements,
structures, and other fixtures built upon certain parcels of real estate.  (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts (“UMF”) 2.)  Plaintiff has the
right and duty to manage, control and restore the Property.  (Id.) 
The Property was completed on July 24, 2009, when a Notice of Completion
(the “NOC”) was filed with the County Recorder. 
(UMF 3.)  Plaintiff’s Covenants,
Conditions, and Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) were recorded on July 28, 2009.  (UMF 4.)  
By 2015, Plaintiff was aware of problems in the Property and had
consulted with an attorney.  (See UMF
5.)  The Notice to Builder and Complaint
were submitted and filed over 10 years after the recordation of the NOC.  (See UMF 14, 16.)
 
            The Court observes that the Separate Statement does not
provide any evidence to refute the Complaint’s allegation that Moving Defendant
was in possession or control of the Property within the limitations period of
Civil Code section 941.   (See Complaint
¶ 11.)  As a result, while it is
undisputed that the NOC was filed more than 10 years before the Complaint was
filed, Moving Defendant has not carried its burden to demonstrate that
Plaintiff’s claims are barred under Civil Code section 941.  (See Civ. Code § 941, subd. (c).)  The Court therefore DENIES the Motion. 
 
 
 
 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
  
Dated this 13th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 