  Case Number:  20STCV15108    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LOU AYUSO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ITT AEROSPACE CONTROLS LLC, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               





     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV15108
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO PERMIT PRETRIAL FINANCIAL
  DISCOVERY
 
Date: December 13, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants ITT Aerospace Controls LLC, Electrofilm Manufacturing Company
LLC, ITT Inc., and Hugo Larios (“collectively, “Defendants”). 
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of an employment relationship.  Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection
with several of the claims in the operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”)
brought under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”).  Plaintiff filed a motion for an order to
conduct pretrial discovery regarding Defendants’ financial condition (the
“Motion”) in relation to the FAC’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
Civil
Code, section 3295, subdivision (c) prohibits pretrial discovery by a plaintiff
with respect to the financial condition of a defendant absent a court
order.  (Civ. Code § 3295, subd. (c).) 
Upon motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate affidavits and
after a hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary, the court may at
any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise prohibited by this
subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and opposing
affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is a
substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on a claim for punitive
damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3294.  (Id.)  Such order shall not be considered to be a
determination on the merits of the claim or any defense thereto and shall not
be given in evidence or referred to at the trial.  (Id.)
 
A
trial court considering a motion to permit discovery of a defendant’s financial
condition must weigh the evidence submitted in support of and in opposition to
the motion and determine whether the plaintiff has established a substantial
probability of prevailing on a claim for punitive damages.  (Kerner v.
Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 84, 120.)  In this context,
a “substantial probability” of prevailing on a claim for punitive damages means
that it is “very likely” that the plaintiff will prevail on such a claim or
there is a “strong likelihood” that the plaintiff will prevail on such a
claim.  (Id.)
 
A
plaintiff may recover punitive damages in an action for breach of an obligation
not arising from contract when the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  Malice is conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.) 
Oppression is defined as despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  Despicable
conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched
or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica
Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) 
 
            The Motion argues that
Plaintiff is entitled to financial discovery based on the evidence submitted in
opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment (the “MSJ”), and the
ruling court’s resulting determination that there were triable issues of
material fact that precluded summary adjudication of the issue of punitive
damages.  The Court is not persuaded by
the argument that a prior determination that Plaintiff’s evidence was
sufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact is equivalent to a showing
that Plaintiff has a substantial probability of prevailing on his punitive
damages claims.  The Motion makes no
attempt to present evidence or argue that Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to
demonstrate a substantial probability of prevailing on the punitive damages
claim.[1]  The Court therefore DENIES the motion.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
         Dated this 13th day of December 2023




 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
 
 


