  Case Number:  24STCV04442    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  74 Eghbalieh v.
Walker et al. 
Defendant Wendy Ann Walker Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
case arises from a reproductive freedom action.
            Plaintiff
Sammy Eghbalieh (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants Wendy Ann
Walker (Walker) and Madeline Ryan (Ryan) (Defendants).  Plaintiff alleges four causes of action: (1)
Violation of the Constitutional Right to Reproductive Freedom, (2) Violation of
Civil Code section 1708.5.6, (3) Permanent Injunction, and, (4) Declaratory
Relief. 
            Walker
demurs to the entire complaint and moves to strike particular parts. 
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
            Walker
demurs to the Complaint generally on the grounds it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for being uncertain, ambiguous,
and unintelligible. 
            Violation
of the Constitutional Right to Reproductive Freedom – First Cause of Action
            Walker
demurs to the First Cause of Action on the grounds that (1) Walker is not a
state actor and (2) Plaintiff fails to allege any state action violated his
constitutional rights.
            The
guiding law regarding the Constitutional law of Reproductive Freedom is the
Reproductive Privacy Act.  The bill
authorizes “a party whose rights are protected by the Reproductive Privacy Act
to bring a civil action against an offending state actor when those rights are
interfered with; and [authorizes] a person aggrieved by a violation of the
Reproductive Privacy Act to bring a civil action pursuant to the Tom Bane Civil
Rights Act.”  (Carpenter v. Superior
Court (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1279, 1297.) 
The Tom Bane Civil Rights Act permits an individual to bring suit in
their own name against individuals for damages, injunctive relief and other
appropriate relief to protect the exercise or enjoyment of the right.  (Civ. Code §§ 52.1(b), (c).)  Therefore, Plaintiff is not required to state
a cause of action against a state actor to bring an action under the
Reproductive Privacy Act. The Court overrules the demurrer to the First Cause
of Action. 
            Violation
of Civil Code section 1708.5.6 – Second Cause of Action
            Walker
demurs to the Second Cause of Action on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff fails to
state facts supporting the elements of the cause of action and (2) Plaintiff
fails to establish an embryo was implanted. 

            The
violation of Civil Code section 1708.5.6 is a misuse of sperm, ova, or embryos
and permits a private cause of action for a violation of Penal code section
367g.  (Civ. Code § 1708.5.6.)  The elements are (1) knowingly using sperm,
ova or embryos (2) in assisted reproduction technology (3) for any purpose
other than indicated by the sperm, ova or embryo provider’s signature on a
written consent form.  (Penal Code
section 367g.)  
            Plaintiff
alleges that he is the sperm provider. 
(Complaint ¶ 36.)  He also alleges
that he has not consented to the use of his sperm.  (Complaint ¶ 37.)  And, finally, he alleges that Walker’s
attempt to obtain control of the embryos and sperm violates Civil Code section
1708.5.6.  (Complaint ¶ 39.) Under the
Penal Code, an attempt to commit a crime – even if unsuccessful – itself constitutes
a crime. (Pen. Code § 664, 1159.) The Court overrules the demurrer to the
second cause of action. 
            Permanent
Injunction – Third Cause of Action 
            Walker
demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the grounds that a permanent injunction
is a remedy, not a cause of action.  Plaintiff requests permanent injunctive relief,
relief which the Reproductive Privacy Act permits.
            Plaintiff
alleges that Walker is attempting to use the fertilized eggs.  (Complaint ¶ 46.)  Injunctive relief may be granted “[w]hen it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission of
continuance of the act complained of.” 
(Code of Civil Procedure § 526.) 
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action was overruled; therefore, the
complaint’s request for injunctive relief is well-stated. The Court overrules
the demurrer to injunctive relief. 
            Declaratory
Relief – Fourth Cause of Action 
            Walker
demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to
attach a copy of the contract between Walker and Plaintiff. 
             Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff and Walker
were parties to a contract.  (Complaint ¶
55.)  He further alleges he withdrew his
consent under that contract.  (Complaint ¶
57.)  Plaintiff requests a declaration as
to who may use the fertilized embryos under the contract.  (Complaint ¶ 62.)  The Code of Civil Procedure allows for the
Court to declare the rights or duties of parties interested in contracts.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 1060.)  
            For
injunctive relief, Plaintiff is not required to provide a copy of the contract
attached to the Complaint; it is sufficient to allege that a contract
exists.  Walker contends that the
threshold question is what the embryo disposition forms at the IVF clinic
contained.  The contents and any legal
rights that are or are not enforceable under the contract create a possible
future controversy under Code of Civil Procedure section 1060.  (Environmental Defense Project v. County
of Sierra (2008) 180 Cal.App.4th 728, 741-42.)  Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to
establish that a contract existed; therefore, Plaintiff has met the burden to
request declaratory relief. 
 
Motion to Strike
            Walker
moves to have the Court strike a number of allegations as irrelevant, false, or
improper.  The Court denies the Motion to
Strike except for the prayer for attorney’s fees, for which the Court gives
Plaintiff leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court overrules the Demurrer in its entirety.
The
Court strikes the prayer for attorney’s fees with 10 days leave to amend but
otherwise denies the Motion to Strike. 
Defendant
shall file her answer per Code.
            Defendant
to give notice.