  Case Number:  22STCV21326    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



FARAMARZ NAZMIFAR,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BEHZAD BEN TOUBIAN; BRENTANITA INC., a California Corporation;
  and DOES 1 through 20.


 Case No.:          22STCV21326
 Hearing Date:   5/8/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Faramarz
  Nazmifar’s Motion for Relief from Arbitration and to Specially Set Trial
  Date.



 
I. Background
On July 19, 2023, this
Court granted an April 24, 2024, motion by Defendants Behzad Ben Toubian and
Brentanita, Inc. to compel arbitration of the claims in this action.
On April 11, 2024,
Plaintiff Nazmifar filed a motion to lift the arbitration stay in this action
and to specially set a trial date. The motion arises from the argument that,
despite multiple requests for payment from Plaintiff Nazmifar and the
arbitrator, Defendants have failed to pay their share of arbitration fees for
more than eight months, resulting first in suspension of the arbitration
proceedings, and then their closure.
On April 24, 2024,
Defendant Toubian filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. Defendant
Toubian’s opposition argues that Brentanita was solely responsible for the
half-share of arbitration fees that went unpaid and that this Court should
continue the present matter 90 days to allow Brentanita to pay arbitration fees
and obtain new counsel, given that Brentanita’s current counsel filed a motion
to be relieved of representation, set for hearing on July 8, 2024.
The record fails to
reflect an opposition to Plaintiff Nazmifar’s motion by Brentanita.
On May 1, 2024,
Plaintiff Nazmifar filed a reply to Defendant Toubian’s opposition.
Plaintiff Nazmifar’s
motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Relief from
Arbitration Stay and to Specially Set Trial Date: GRANTED.
A.
Relief from Arbitration Stay
1. Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 provides for a stay of pending litigation
while a related arbitration is proceeding. (Heritage Provider Network, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1152.) Once a stay is
granted the trial court retains vestigial powers over the matters submitted to
arbitration, including the power to rule on a petition to confirm, correct, or
vacate an award. (Titan/Value Equities Group, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 487; Finley v. Saturn of Roseville (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1258.) “This vestigial jurisdiction over the action at law
consists solely of making the determination, upon conclusion of the arbitration
proceedings, of whether there was an award on the merits (in which case the
action at law should be dismissed because of the res judicata effects of the
arbitration award) [citations] or not (at which point the action at law may
resume to determine the rights of the parties). [Citations.]” (Brock v.
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1790, 1796.)
2. Analysis
a. Parties’ Arguments
In
his motion, Plaintiff Nazmifar argues that this Court should exercise its
inherent powers pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128 to lift the
arbitration stay in this action. Plaintiff argues that a lifting of stay is
proper here because Defendants have failed to pay arbitration fees for more
than eight months after this Court granted Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration. Plaintiff argues that both he and the arbitrator requested that
Defendants make payments and that, when Defendants failed to make payment, the
arbitration company first suspended the arbitration and then closed the
arbitration altogether. Plaintiff argues that these circumstances merit a
lifting of the arbitration stay, a return of Plaintiff’s claims from
arbitration, and the setting of a trial date (discussed below).
In
opposition, Defendant Toubian—not joined by Brentanita—argues that Toubian was
not responsible for paying the defaulted arbitration fees, but rather, that
Brentanita was responsible for those fees. Defendant Toubian argues that the
proper course of action here would be to (1) instruct the arbitrator to issue
orders relating to payment of fees, (2) set an order to show cause hearing
regarding payment of arbitration fees in 90 days, and (3) permit the 90-day
continuance based on Brentanita’s counsel’s pending motion to be relieved as
counsel. Plaintiff Toubian argues that failure to grant the continuance would
result in prejudice, though that prejudice is not elaborated in the opposition.
In
reply, Plaintiff Nazmifar argues that Defendant Toubian was equally responsible
for the arbitration fees, citing emails from the arbitration company to support
this position. Plaintiff Nazmifar argues that a 90-day extension would be
inappropriate after more than nine months’ failure to pay fees in the
arbitration, where Defendants were time and again given opportunities to pay
the arbitration fees only to fail to do so, and where Brentanita has not even
filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. Plaintiff Nazmifar argues that the
motion to be relieved as counsel is not relevant to the disposition of this
motion and that a continuance for the motion to relieve counsel would
unnecessarily cause delays. Plaintiff last argues that it is he, not
Defendants, that suffers prejudice from being forced into arbitration, only for
Defendants to drag their feet on arbitration.
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Nazmifar.
In
arbitration proceedings other than consumer or employment arbitrations, an
arbitrator may terminate the arbitration proceedings for nonpayment of required
fees. To illustrate, in Cinel v. Christopher, a securities fraud action,
a trial court granted the defendants’ petition to compel arbitration. The
arbitrator terminated the arbitration proceedings because some of the
defendants failed to pay their share of the required arbitration fees and the
unpaid fees were not advanced by the paying parties. One defendant, who had
paid his share of the fees, moved to confirm the arbitrator’s “award.” However,
the trial court denied the motion because the termination was not an award,
lifted the stay[,] and ordered the case set for trial. On appeal, the court of
appeal affirmed, determining that the trial court did not err in lifting the
stay “because the arbitration had been terminated and the trial court did not
confirm, correct or vacate Christopher's petition, but instead dismissed the
petition, the stay terminated[,] and the trial court properly set the matter
for trial.” (See Cinel v. Christopher (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 759, 762-764,
769 (Cinel).)
Here,
the arbitration that the Court ordered on July 19, 2023, has been closed by the
arbitration service provider, Alternative Resolution Centers (ARC). (Mot.,
Comer Decl., Ex. E [“ARC has closed its file for non payment of Arbitration
fees. We will not re-open our file until the parties stipulate to billing in
writing and pay the entire Arbitration fee.”].) While the arbitration may be
reopened, all parties must stipulate to that reopening. (Ibid.) Here,
Plaintiff has elected instead to withdraw the claims from arbitration and
proceed in state court by way of this motion. A stipulation to reopen
arbitration thus clearly does not exist. Thus, the Court finds that there has
been, in effect, a termination of arbitration proceedings as with Cinel.
Because
there has been a closure (termination) of arbitration proceedings, the Court is
empowered to lift the stay of arbitration in this action. (See Cinel, supra,
203 Cal.App.4th at p. 769.) In the alternative, the Court’s July 19, 2023,
order specifically provided that a stay was imposed on “this action until
arbitration [wa]s had in accordance with th[e] order or until such earlier time
as the Court specifie[d].” (7/19/23 Minutes, p. 14 at § IV.) Here, either the
arbitration was already “had” in accordance with the July 19, 2023, order
because ARC closed the arbitration proceedings, or ARC’s closure of the
arbitration proceedings amounts to an appropriate “earlier time” to lift the
arbitration stay in this action and permit Plaintiff’s claims to proceed in
state court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) Either way, the Court is not inclined
to allow a continuance to give Brentanita another chance to pay the very bills
that it has refused thus far to pay. Without any appearance by Brentanita this
Court has no basis to believe that such payment will be forthcoming. 

The Court does not accept Defendant
Toubian’s representation that he was not responsible for part of the
arbitration fees at issue here. Defendant Toubian’s opposition cites a March
19, 2024, email from ARC to the parties indicating that fees were to be split
between Plaintiff and Brentanita, specifically based on an instruction given to
ARC by the parties regarding who should be billed for arbitration fees. (See
Opp’n, Rudman Decl., ¶ 3, citing Mot., Comer Decl., Exs. A, March 19, 2024,
Email [“ARC was told in January 2023 to split all fees between two Counsels.
Mr. Gilardi was to be billed on behalf of the Plaintiffs and Defendants’ entire
fee to your office, Mr. Fox [Brentanita’s counsel], which we did. Two previous
invoices were billed and paid by both parties in this way.”].) This argument
has some support in the attachments to the moving papers. (Mot., Comer Decl.,
Ex. C, March 21, 2024, Email [“This email confirms that the Defendant [in the
singular, but not identifying which Defendant] did not make payment yesterday
by EOD.”].) However, the March 19, 2024, email is clear: ARC billed half of the
arbitration fees to Brentanita based on the parties’ instructions. The
opposition does not clarify who gave those instructions and what agreements
underlay those instructions. For example, the opposition does not attach a
declaration from Defendant Toubian or an attachment showing that Defendants
entered an agreement pursuant to which only Brentanita was liable for
arbitration fees. Under these circumstances, the Court agrees with Plaintiff
Nazmifar’s reply argument that it appears irrelevant that the parties
instructed ARC to only bill Brentanita for Defendants’ share of arbitration
fees. (Reply, p. 2.) The Court does not have any evidence showing that ARC
specifically chose to only bill Brentanita, thereby absolving Defendant Toubian
of the need to pay arbitration fees. 
At most, the opposition refers to
the parties’ partnership agreement incorporated as Exhibit A to the FAC for the
purpose of showing that Brentanita agreed to indemnify Defendant Toubian, a
partner, for “any and all claims of any nature, whatsoever, arising out of a
Partner’s participation in Partnership affairs.” (Opp’n, p. 2 & fn. 1,
citing FAC, Ex. B [not Ex. A], § 68 at p. 12.) However, this language does not
on its face state that Brentanita would pay any fees for its partners upfront
as opposed to indemnifying partners after the partners incurred liability.
Moreover, section 68 of the partnership agreement also provides that
indemnification will not apply “for liability arising out of gross negligence
or willful misconduct of the Partner or the breach by the Partner of any
provisions of this Agreement.” (Ibid.) And here, the opposition does not
clarify whether the claims in this action involve gross negligence, willful
misconduct, or breach of partnership agreement by Defendant Toubian, which
would eliminate any basis for indemnification from Brentanita. Thus, the
partnership agreement at section 68 does not contain terms convincing this
Court that Defendant Toubian was not responsible for a share of the defense
arbitration fees.
Even if, arguendo, Toubian was not
responsible for paying fees, the fact is that his co-defendant, Brentanita,
failed to make the payment. The arbitration cannot move forward without fees
being paid – that is the hallmark of private dispute resolution. It would be
unfair to preclude a plaintiff from having his day in “court” in arbitration due
to the failure to pay by defendant. Fundamentally, if Toubian wanted to avoid
the closure of the matter due to non-payment by Brentanita, Toubian could have
paid the fees instead.
Last, a 90-day continuance here is not
justified. As of the time of this hearing, Brentanita remains a represented
party. If Brentanita’s counsel is relieved of representation, the Court can
address outstanding issues at that time. However, Brentanita’s possible need
for substitute counsel in the near future is not a ground to continue the
hearing on this motion. Moreover, Defendant Toubian’s request for a 90-day
continuance so that Brentanita can pay the outstanding arbitration fees is not
appropriate at this time. ARC has specified that it will not reopen arbitration
unless the parties stipulate to the same and the outstanding fees are paid.
(Mot., Comer Decl., Exs. A, March 19, 2024, Email.) In filing this motion,
Plaintiff has elected not to stipulate to reopening arbitration. 
Moreover, it is not clear that
Brentanita or even Defendant Toubian will pay arbitration fees in the next 90
days, or that they should be given more time to make such payment. Defendant
Toubian did not submit a declaration with his opposition. Brentanita has made
no filings in relation to this motion. The Court therefore does not have
declarations from the two Defendants who appear to be liable for the
outstanding defense arbitration fees. Neither does the sole declaration from
counsel attached to the opposition explain why Brentanita failed to pay the
defense arbitration fees for more than eight months prior to this action being
filed. Instead, counsel’s declaration adds confusion by providing that “[t]o
date, the other shareholders in Brentanita have not advised how they want to
proceed.” (Opp’n, Rudman Decl., ¶ 7.) Under these circumstances, it is not
clear that Brentanita will pay fees or how Brentanita’s shareholders wish to
proceed in relation to this action, either in state court or in arbitration. A
continuance cannot be justified on these grounds.
Based on the above, Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED insofar as it requests that the Court lift the arbitration
stay in this action and permit Plaintiff’s claims to proceed in state court.
B. Specially Setting Trial Date
1. Legal
Standard
A party seeking to advance,
specially set, or reset a case for trial must make this request by noticed
motion or ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of [Division 11,
Chapters 1-8 re: Law and Motion].” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1335(a).)
“The request may be granted only
upon an affirmative showing by the moving party of good cause based on a
declaration served and filed with the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1335(b).)
2. Analysis
a. Parties’
Arguments
Here, the Court summarized the
entirety of the papers’ arguments above in Section II.A.2.a. The opposition principally
opposes lifting of the arbitration stay while failing to specifically address
the setting of a trial date.
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Nazmifar.
The Court adopts its discussion at
Section II.A.2.b. above to determine that because Plaintiff’s claims have
languished in arbitration and have now been brought back to state court, the
setting of a trial date in this more than two-year-old action is appropriate.
Plaintiff’s motion is thus GRANTED insofar
as it requests the special setting of a trial date. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Faramarz Nazmifar’s Motion for Relief from Arbitration and to
Specially Set Trial Date is GRANTED. 
The parties should come to oral argument with their calendars prepared to
set a trial date.
 