 Case Number:  23STCV24476    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JOSE L. HERNANDEZ, an Individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KOOS MANUFACTURING, INC. a California Corporation; and DOES 1
  through 100, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV24476
 Hearing Date:   5/8/24
 Trial Date:        4/22/25
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Koos
  Manufacturing, Inc.’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections to
  Plaintiff Jose Hernandez’s First Set of Written Discovery.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Jose L.
Hernandez sues Defendants Koos Manufacturing, Inc. (KMI) and Does 1 through 100
pursuant to an October 9, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Discrimination, Including Discriminatory Discrimination, Based on Plaintiff’s
Actual or Perceived Disabilities, (2) Failure to Engage in a Timely Good Faith
Interactive Process, (3) Failure to Accommodate, (4) Discrimination, Including
Discriminatory Termination, Based on Plaintiff’s Age, (5) Retaliation,
Including Retaliatory Termination Based on Plaintiff’s Actual or Perceived
Participation in Protected Activities, (6) Failure to Prevent, and (7) Unfair
Business Practices Dictating Injunctive Relief.
B. Relevant
Procedural History
On January 5, 2024—not January 9,
2024 (see Proof of Service)—Plaintiff Hernandez served his first
set of written discovery on KMI, which involved a Set One for form
interrogatories (FROGs), special interrogatories (SROGs), requests for
admission (RFAs), and requests for production (RPDs) (collectively, the Set One
discovery).
That same day, Plaintiff Hernandez
served several deposition notices on KMI for the deposition of KMI’s person
most qualified and the deposition of two individuals, with depositions to take
place in August and September 2024 and document production to precede the three
depositions.
On February 15, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel informed KMI’s counsel that responses to this discovery were overdue
and requested responses from KMI no later than March 8, 2024.
On March 8, 2024, KMI’s counsel
requested an additional week to provide discovery responses, to which
Plaintiff’s counsel assented while noting that objections to the Set One
discovery had been waived.
On March 15, 2024, KMI served
responses to the Set One discovery.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On March 15, 2024, KMI
filed a motion for relief from waiver of objections to FROGs, SROGs, RPDs, and
RFAs, Set One.
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff
Hernandez filed an opposition to KMI’s opposition.
On May 1, 2024, KMI
filed a reply to Plaintiff Hernandez’s opposition.
KMI’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Evidentiary Objections
Reply Objection Nos. 1-8:
SUSTAINED.
The declaration must be limited to
evidentiary facts and should not contain legal arguments or conclusions or
ultimate facts, and must advance admissible and unobjectionable evidence. (Lydig
Constr., Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937, 944 [declarations
must contains relevant facts, not ultimate facts commonly found in pleadings;
evidence must be admissible and not objectionable]; Brown v. Ransweiler
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 516, 529 [declarations must be limited to evidentiary
facts and should not contain legal arguments or conclusions or ultimate facts],
quoting Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 638-639; In re
Marriage of Heggie (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 28, 30, fn. 3 [“The proper place
for argument is in points and authorities, not declarations”].)
 
III. Motion for Relief from
Waiver of Objections: GRANTED.
A.
Legal Standard
A
party that fails to timely respond to interrogatories, requests for production,
or requests for admission waives all objections to these discovery requests.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 [interrogatories], subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a)
[production], 2033.280, subd. (a) [admission requests].)
The
court, on motion, may relieve that party from its waiver on the court’s
determination that: (1) the party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance with the Discovery Act, and (2) the party’s failure to
serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subds. (a)(1)-(2) [interrogatories],
2031.300, subds. (a)(1)-(2) [production], 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2)
[admission requests].)
B.
Analysis
1. Parties’ Arguments
In its motion, KMI argues that it
should be relieved of its objections to the Set One discovery for various
reasons. KMI argues that Plaintiff served voluminous discovery on KMI, and that
KMI’s counsel simply overlooked the Set One discovery in favor of the three
deposition notices. KMI also argues that it has provided Code-compliant
responses to the Set One discovery. Next, KMI argues that the delay in
responding to the Set One discovery was a result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect on the part of counsel. Specifically, KMI argues that “[KMI]’[s]
counsel inadvertently and mistakenly did not see that Plaintiff’s First Set of
Written Discovery followed the five notices of depositions in the pdf
attachment,” where “[KMI]’[s] counsel did not realize their mistake until they
received an email from Plaintiff’s counsel on February 15, 2024 advising that [KMI]’[s]
responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Written Discovery were past due.” KMI
also adds that “[KMI]’[s] counsel immediately went to work preparing the
responses and, in fact, served responses to all discovery within 29 days of
becoming aware of the mistake, on or before the extended due dates.” Last, KMI argues
that Plaintiff would suffer no prejudice from relief of waiver, citing Flores
v. Board of Supervisors (1970) 13 Cal.App.3d 480, 483-485 (Flores) and
other cases in support of prejudice as a relevant factor. (Mot., pp. 7-9,
citing Mot., Aman Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5, 7-9, Exs. 5-6.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that KMI should have served responses without objections, where the March 15,
2024, responses included objections expressly in contravention of the parties’
agreements regarding extending KMI’s time to serve responses to the Set One
discovery. Plaintiff argues that KMI’s responses are not Code-compliant because
they contain objections and because the responses themselves are not
Code-compliant in their substance, as shown in the meet and confer declarations
attached to the opposition, which show KMI agreed to supplement its responses
to certain of the discovery requests. (The Court notes that despite a reference
to Exhibit 19 to the Anglin declaration, there is no such Exhibit 19 attached
to the Anglin declaration.)  Plaintiff
adds that the failure to respond to the Set One discovery cannot have arisen
from mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect (the applicable standard) where
three counsel were served with the Set One discovery, Plaintiff served the
discovery well after being statutorily entitled to do so, and KMI served an Answer
and met and conferred relating to deposition dates, thus showing that it is not
credible for counsel and their staff to have completely missed the Set One
discovery. Next, Plaintiff argues that the moving papers improperly rely on Flores
and various other cases because those authorities discussed relief pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, not relief pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2030, 2031, and 2033, and because those cases involve
instances where counsel’s staff failed to calendar or otherwise recognize
pending discovery, whereas here counsel were served and failed to respond.
Moreover, Plaintiff argues that it is Plaintiff, not KMI, who has been
prejudiced by the instant circumstances.
In reply, KMI reiterates its
argument that it has met the mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect
standard here because the conduct that led to KMI’s nonresponse amounts to a
mistake from counsel, where Plaintiff has no knowledge of the discussions KMI’s
counsel have had regarding KMI’s discovery obligations, and where KMI promptly
provided discovery responses after it became aware of its nonresponse to the
Set One discovery. KMI next cites California case law for the position that California
legislature intended to employ the same standard for relief from defaults as
used in section 473 in relation to failure to serve a timely response to a
discovery demand, for which reason KMI’s cites to section 473 relief cases are
appropriate. KMI also notes that the opposition fails to directly reference any
deficient discovery response, that no motions to compel further responses were
on file as of the date of the reply, and that KMI’s counsel has attempted to
meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel on various occasions regarding setting
an informal discovery conference on outstanding discovery issues to no avail. Next,
KMI argues that Plaintiff fails to cite authority preventing KMI from stating
objections in its discovery responses despite waiver, citing California case
law in support, and arguing that had KMI not included those objections,
Plaintiff would instead be arguing waiver of said objections. KMI also argues
that its discovery responses to the Set One discovery meet the applicable
standard, which is not actual compliance, but substantial compliance showing a
facially good-faith effort to respond to the discovery at issue. KMI adds that
any agreement to supplement its discovery responses is the result of
compromises in the discovery process, not an admission of deficient discovery
responses. Last, KMI argues that Plaintiff has not been prejudiced for various
reasons, including that KMI acted with due diligence after discovering its
mistake and that trial is scheduled for 2025, giving the parties ample time to
complete discovery and prepare for trial.
3. Court’s
Determination
a. Preliminary
Notes
The Court notes that despite the
representations in Plaintiff Hernandez’s opposition, the record fails to
reflect Plaintiff Hernandez has filed any motion to compel further discovery in
relation to the Set One discovery. There is, however, a reservation that
appears in the court’s CRS system, set for hearing on June 12, 2024.
b. Substantial
Compliance with Code
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant KMI.
First, the Court addresses whether
objections were properly raised in the late-served responses to the Set One
discovery.
The authority cited by KMI does not
quite stand for the proposition that “the Discovery Act does not state that
objections cannot be included in a tardy response.” (Reply, p. 8.) The issue
addressed by the Court in the cited portion of Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 407 (Sinaiko)
involved whether “section 2030.290 … preclude[s] the trial court from granting
a motion to compel [initial] responses under subdivision (b)[] … [where] the
responding party serves untimely interrogatory responses after the propounding
party has served the motion,” answering in the negative. (Ibid.) Sinaiko’s
reference to relief from waiver, as quoted in the reply, merely contextualizes
the reasons why a trial court may grant a motion to compel initial responses to
interrogatory requests, not whether objections that have been waived may be
stated in a late-served response. 
To be sure, there is a lack of direct
authority relating to this issue. The Court could not locate authority
discussing whether objections may be stated in late-served discovery responses
or whether such objections render a late-filed response not substantially
Code-compliant. Nonetheless, presumably, the intent of the Legislature was to
allow for a responding party to assert an objection when simultaneously moving
for relief from waiver. Otherwise, there would be no point to seeking waiver,
if the interrogatories already had to be answered without objections. 
The Court determines that KMI’s
objections were properly stated for the purposes of this motion. Defendant is
seeking relief from waiver of objections. Thus, absent clear authority to the
contrary, the Court looks to the discovery responses and asks whether they
would have substantially complied with KMI’s discovery obligations had the
responses been served prior to discovery deadline for responses. This analysis
does not, as argued by the reply, require perfect or actual compliance, but
rather, merely substantial compliance. (See St. Mary v. Superior Court
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 779 (St. Mary) [“substantial compliance”
cannot properly be understood to require actual compliance with every specific
statutory requirement].)
Looking at the responses themselves,
as well as the Opposition (at pp. 15-16) and the specific responses claimed to
be deficient in the Anglin Declaration (at ¶ 20), the Court determines that the
discovery responses served by KMI substantially comply with the Code.
First, the Opposition does not set
forth the reasons why the responses are deficient, other than to cite to unspecified
pages of unspecified meet and confer letters. (Opp’n at p. 15.) The Court is
not required to guess at which pages of which letters demonstrate the deficient
responses, nor is it helpful to fail to summarize the reasons in the Opposition.
Nor does the Anglin Declaration summarize any deficiencies, instead enumerating
the allegedly deficient responses by number. (Anglin Decl.,¶ 20.) 
Looking at the actual responses nonetheless,
it is true that some of them are objections only. For example, KMI’s responses
to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 19-23 contain objection-only responses to these
production requests, as does response to FROGs, Set
One, No. 209.2. However, as noted above,
the Court does not find asserting some objections to necessarily be
non-compliant. Such responses properly entitle Plaintiff
Hernandez to file a motion to compel further responses. The Court’s review satisfies it that the
vast majority of the responses were reasonably answered, providing a great deal
of information in some responses. (Mot., Aman Decl., at Ex. 6; see, for
example, response to Employment FROG No. 204.7.
c. Mistake,
Inadvertence, or Excusable Neglect
The Court also determines that Defendants
have shown mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect within the meaning of
the discovery statutes. While Plaintiff spends a great deal of time arguing that
there is simply no excuse for a failure to see the written discovery that was
located in the same PDF as certain deposition notices, the Court disagrees. In
the Court’s experience, no attorney is perfect, and the surest sign that something
was inadvertent is an immediate effort to correct the oversight. KMI responded
within less than 30 days to four sets of written discovery (including 100 RFPs),
providing reasonable factual responses as well as reasonable objections. Perfection
in the practice of law is not required, and it would be a very stressful
profession indeed if no mistake could ever be forgiven. The Court also agrees
that Plaintiff has not shown prejudice, assuming that is a factor to be
considered, in that trial is about 11 months away. 
Finally, while this Court no longer
has express statutory authority to require informal discovery conferences, the
Court does encourage IDCs in order to reduce the expenses and time associated
with motions to compel, should the parties continue to have discovery issues that
need to be resolved.
d. Disposition
KMI’s motion is GRANTED. 
IV. Conclusion
Defendant Koos Manufacturing,
Inc.’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections to Plaintiff Jose
Hernandez’s First Set of Written Discovery is GRANTED.