  Case Number:  23LBCP00091    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Petitioner, Paul Evans commenced
this proceeding against Respondent, LBUSD seeking a writ of mandate compelling
Respondent to overturn his termination of employment with back pay.  Details concerning Petitioner’s employment
and termination will be discussed below. 
Petitioner filed his petition on 3/01/23, and filed his operative First
Amended Petition on 4/10/23.  LBUSD filed
an answer on 5/10/23.  The parties were
granted permission to file oversized briefs on 1/09/24.  
 
2.     Petition
for Writ of Mandate
a.     Legal
Standard Applicable to Petition
CCP section 1094.5 is the
administrative mandamus provision which structures the procedure for judicial
review of adjudicatory decisions rendered by administrative agencies.  Topanga Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County
of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”) (1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15. 
 
CCP section 1094.5 does not, on its
face, specify which cases are subject to independent review, leaving that issue
to the courts.  Fukuda v. City of Angels,
(“Fukuda”) (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 811. 
In cases reviewing decisions which affect a vested, fundamental right
the trial court exercises independent judgment on the evidence.  Bixby v. Pierno, (“Bixby”) (1971) 4 Cal.3d
130, 143; see CCP §1094.5(c).  The
independent judgment standard of review applies to administrative findings on
guilt in cases involving a law enforcement officer’s vested property interest
in his employment.  Barber v. Long Beach
Civil Service Comm’n, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 652, 658. 
 
Under the independent judgment
test, “the trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors
of law but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed
in a limited trial de novo.” Bixby, supra, 4 Cal.3d at 143.  The court must draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility determinations.  Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Rights of Board of Rightsers, (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860,
868. In short, the court substitutes its judgment for the agency’s regarding
the basic facts of what happened, when, why, and the credibility of
witnesses.  Guymon v. Board of Rights of
Accountancy, (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 1010, 1013-16. 
 
“In exercising its independent
judgment, the trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness
concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging the
administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative
findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  Fukuda, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 817.  Unless it can be demonstrated by petitioner
that the agency’s actions are not grounded upon any reasonable basis in law or
any substantial basis in fact, the courts should not interfere with the
agency’s discretion or substitute their wisdom for that of the agency.  Bixby, supra, 4 Cal.3d 130, 150-51; Bank of
America v. State Water Resources Control Board of Rights, (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d
198, 208. 
 
The agency’s decision must be based
on a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing.  Board of Rights of Medical Quality Assurance
v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860, 862.  The hearing officer is only required to issue
findings that give enough explanation so that parties may determine whether,
and upon what basis, to review the decision. 
Topanga, supra, 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15. 
Implicit in CCP section 1094.5 is a requirement that the agency set
forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and ultimate
decision or order.  Id. at 115. 
 
An agency is presumed to have
regularly performed its official duties (Evid. Code §664), and the petitioner
therefore has the burden of proof. 
Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Board of Rights, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d
129, 137.  “[T]he burden of proof falls
upon the party attacking the administrative decision to demonstrate wherein the
proceedings were unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse
of discretion.  Afford v. Pierno, (1972)
27 Cal.App.3d 682, 691. 
 
The propriety of a penalty imposed
by an administrative agency is a matter in the discretion of the agency, and
its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of
discretion.  Lake v. Civil Service Board
of Rights, (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 224, 228. 
In determining whether there has been an abuse of discretion, the court
must examine the extent of the harm to the public service, the circumstances
surrounding the misconduct, and the likelihood that such conduct will
recur.  Skelly, supra, 15 Cal.3d at
217-18.  The penalty should be upheld if
there is “any reasonable basis to sustain it”. 
County of Los Angeles v. Civil Service Com. of County of Los Angeles,
(2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 871, 877.  “Only in
an exceptional case will an abuse of discretion be shown because reasonable
minds cannot differ on the appropriate penalty.”  Ibid. 
Neither an appellate court nor a trial court is free to substitute its
discretion for that of the administrative agency concerning the degree of
punishment imposed.  Nightingale v. State
Personnel Board of Rights, (1972) 7 Cal.3d 507, 515.  The policy consideration underlying such
allocation of authority is the expertise of the administrative agency in
determining penalty questions.  Cadilla
v. Board of Rights of Medical Examiners, (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961. 
 
b.     Hearing
Officer Recommendation
A hearing on Petitioner’s
termination was held on 10/11/22 and 10/12/22. 
The Hearing Officer’s Discussion of Evidence, Findings of Fact, and
Recommendation is attached as Exhibit C to the First Amended Petition.  The Court has reviewed the document and will
not set forth its contents in their entirety. 

 
In summary, the hearing officer
indicated Petitioner had been charged with violations of Personnel Commission
Rules 11.1.8, 11.1.9, 11.1.10, and 11.1.15. 
The hearing officer found that LBUSD’s Deputy Superintendent, Dr.
Tiffany Brown, testified she received a heads-up that there would be a CDPH
vaccination or testing order, and she sent an email on 8/09/11, two days before
the CDPH order was issued, letting all employees know that they must either be
vaccinated or submit to weekly testing to continue employment.  There were multiple attempts to get
Petitioner to comply with the requirement, but he refused.  At some point he cited religious reasons for
refusing to be vaccinated.  His sole
indication of why he would not submit to testing was that the testing was not
FDA-approved.  
 
Because religion was cited, LBUSD
had a meeting with Petitioner to discuss reasonable accommodations.  LBUSD found Petitioner’s requested
accommodations, which included working remotely and/or being assigned somewhere
without a mandate, were not reasonable, since Petitioner was specifically an
instructional aide for students who were deaf or hard of hearing.  The District offered him either the
opportunity to test weekly or unpaid leave. 
He did not select either.  He was
reprimanded again.  
 
On 1/14/22, LBUSD served Petitioner
with a Notice of Recommendation for Immediate Suspension and Dismissal and
Statement of Charges.  Petitioner was
notified of his right to a Skelly hearing, which was held on 2/22/24.  Ultimately, on 3/16/22, the Board met and
ultimately affirmed the termination decision. 
Petitioner appealed the Board’s decision, and the Hearing Officer issued
the recommendation being summarized herein after hearing.  The Hearing Officer recommended rejecting
each of Petitioner’s claims and affirming the decision to terminate
Petitioner’s employment.  Specifically,
the Officer found Petitioner had violated 11.1.8 and 11.1.10.  The Officer found LBUSD failed to show
Petitioner had violated 11.1.9 or 11.1.15, and did not additionally recommend
termination on those grounds.  
 
LBUSD acted on the recommendation
and terminated Petitioner, and Petitioner thereafter filed this petition (and
First Amended Petition) for writ of mandate. 

 
c.     Summary
of Petitioner’s Contentions
Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate
based on the following grounds and arguments:
·        
First, Petitioner contends his actions did not
constitute a violation of personnel commission rules 11.1.8 or 11.1.10 as a
matter of law.  
·        
As to 11.1.8, he contends a violation cannot be
established because his conduct does not constitute insubordination.  He contends insubordination is a lofty bar,
and various exceptions to the definition apply to him.  
·        
He contends his conduct did not constitute
dereliction of duty, because his conduct does not meet the definition for
“neglect of duty.”  He contends
vaccination and/or testing was not an official duty, and failing to test did
not lead to failure to comply with any other duties.  
·        
As to 11.1.10, he contends he did not violate
any administration approved policies, rules, regulations, procedures, or
established rules.  He contends the CDPH
order was not “administration approved” and therefore could not be the basis
for termination.  He contends the order
was not, in any event, a policy, rule, regulation, or procedure.  He contends the order applied to entities,
but not to individuals.  
·        
Petitioner next contends the hearing officer
improperly characterized the lawfulness of the CDPH order as a factual finding,
when it was a contested legal issue warranting judicial interpretation.  
·        
He goes on to argue that LBUSD’s enforcement of
the COVID-19 protocols was inconsistent with the directives of the CDPH order
upon which the protocols were purportedly based.
·        
Petitioner contends his refusal to test was
limited to refusing any test not FDA-approved, and was not a blanket refusal to
test.  
·        
He contends LBUSD was able to accommodate his
religious beliefs, but refused to do so.
·        
He contends there is no evidence to support the
conclusion that he violated Rule 11.1.8 by failing to make every effort to
protect students and to provide a safe and healthy environment, because nothing
in the code of conduct was violated in this regard.
·        
He contends there is nothing in the record to
support the conclusion that he disrupted a positive school climate.  He contends his cited conduct has nothing to
do with the policy provisions cited.  He
contends his violation, if any, was not willful.  
·        
Finally, Petitioner contends he was denied due
process in numerous ways.  He contends he
was denied the ability to present evidence and conduct discovery, he was denied
his rights under Brown when the session was held as a closed, rather than open,
session, and the charges against him were unconstitutionally vague.  
 
d.     11.1.8
i.             
Language of 11.1.8
Personnel Commission Rule 11.1.8
permits LBUSD to dismiss an employee based on “incompetency, inefficiency,
insubordination, inattention to or dereliction of duty.”  The District prevailed, at the hearing level,
on its claims of insubordination and dereliction of duty, and based its
termination decision on those grounds.  
 
ii.            
Insubordination
The parties agree that
insubordination, under CA law, is defined as intentional disregard of an
employer’s interest and willful violation of the standard of behavior that the
employer rightfully expects of employees. 
Cal Code of Regulations, Title 22, §1256-36(b) includes various
exceptions to the definition of insubordination, several of which Petitioner
contends apply here.  That section
provides:
(b) Implicit in the agreement of
hire is the concept that an employee is subject to some degree of authority
exercised by the employer or the employer's representative. An employee is
insubordinate if he or she intentionally disregards the employer's interest and
willfully violates the standard of behavior which the employer may rightfully
expect of employees in any of the following ways:
(1) Refuses, without justification,
to comply with the lawful and reasonable orders of the employer or the
employer's representative. Compliance is not required in the following
circumstances:
(A) The order is unreasonable
because compliance is impossible for the employee due to reasons such as
physical limitations which are peculiar to him or her and, if the reasons are
not apparent, are made known to the employer or the employer's representative.
(B) The order is unreasonable
because compliance would impose a new and unreasonable burden on the employee.
(C) The order is unreasonable
because it does not relate to or affect the employer's business interests.
(D) The employee reasonably and in
good faith believes compliance would result in a violation of the law, objects
or makes a reasonable effort to object to the employer, and the employer makes
no reasonable effort to explain the basis for the order to the employee.
Whether compliance with the order would be a violation of the law is not
determinative.
(E) The employee reasonably
believes compliance with the order would cause an undue risk of injury or
illness (see Section 1256-15 of these regulations).
(F) The employee has a reasonable
and good-faith doubt of the authority of the individual issuing the order.
 
iii.           
Analysis
Petitioner contends Exceptions A,
B, D, and F all apply.  His contention
re: each exemption is a variation on the theme that the only tests that were
available during the subject time period were subject to Emergency Use
Authorization and had not been fully FDA approved.  He therefore contends it was unreasonable for
the District to require him to use the tests. 

 
Petitioner fails to meaningfully
articulate anything unreasonable about requiring him to submit to EUA tests
during the relevant time period. 
Petitioner admits no fully FDA-approved tests existed.  The Court finds the District had a valid
reason for requiring the tests, and was acting in an entirely reasonable manner
when requiring employees to take them if they chose not to be vaccinated.  The Court finds Petitioner failed to show he
was acting reasonably in refusing the tests. 
Of note, the District permitted him to use a saliva-based test, rather
than a nasal swab test, which would have required absolutely nothing invasive,
and he would merely have to spit into something, which would then be mixed with
chemicals and analyzed.  He would never
have to ingest the chemicals or even touch them.  Petitioner briefly contends his “sensitive
medical information” would be compromised by undergoing the protocols, but it
is not clear that he ever articulated this concern to the District during the
relevant time period, and it is also not clear what this “sensitive medical
information” would be – at most the District would learn that he had tested
positive for Covid, and any privacy right to that information would be clearly
overcome by the District’s need and desire to protect others from Covid
exposure.
 
Petitioner establishes, in his
moving brief, that insubordination is a “high bar,” and that the conduct at
issue must be willful.  See Pasadena
Unified School Dist. V. Comm. On Prof. Competence (1977) 20 Cal.3d 309, 315.  The Court finds, however, that the District
adequately showed willfulness.  The
evidence shows that Petitioner was repeatedly offered two alternatives – become
vaccinated or submit to weekly tests.  He
refused both alternatives.  Whatever his
reasons were for so choosing, he willfully made his choice.  Choices are not without consequences, and in
this case, the consequence was termination of employment.  
 
iv.           
Conclusion
The Court finds the District
adequately showed, at the hearing level, that Petitioner’s conduct met the
definition of insubordination, which is a ground for termination under
11.1.8.  Petitioner failed to meet his burden
to show the termination decision was erroneous. 

 
e.     Additional
Grounds for Termination
The Court declines to rule on
whether Petitioner met his burden to establish the District erred with respect
to establishing other grounds for termination, as doing so is not necessary to
a resolution of the merits of the petition.  
A single well-supported ground for termination, which was shown by the
above analysis re: insubordination, is sufficient to affirm the District’s
decision to terminate.
 
f.      Lawfulness
of CDPH Order
Because the insubordination finding
was premised on Petitioner’s violation of the CDPH order, the Court must
consider Petitioner’s arguments concerning the order itself.  Petitioner contends the hearing officer improperly
characterized the lawfulness of the order as a factual finding instead of a
legal finding.  Even if this were so,
Petitioner does not meaningfully articulate how the CDPH order was unlawful.  The Court therefore rejects this argument.
 
g.     Inconsistencies
Between CDPH Order and District Enforcement of Covid-19 Protocols
Petitioner argues there were
inconsistencies between the CDPH Order and the District’s enforcement of
Covid-19 protocols.  Petitioner notes
that the order was not issued until two days after the District implemented its
policies.  The hearing officer, however,
addressed this, finding that the District, through Dr. Brown, learned of the
upcoming order prior to its actual issuance and proactively issued a District
order ahead of issuance of the CDPH order. 
See decision, page 3, lines 19-27.
 
Petitioner contends the District
wrongly applied the order to employees, when the order only applied to
entities.  Petitioner’s argument is
nonsensical.  The order required entities
to require all employees to be vaccinated or undergo testing.  The entities to whom the order applied could
only implement the requirements of the order by passing along the requirements
to their employees.  
 
Finally, Petitioner contends the
order did not apply to some facilities that were not traditional K-12
facilities, including a facility known as Tucker, which had an available
position for a deaf/hard of hearing instruction aide open during the relevant time
period.  However, as the District notes
in opposition to the petition, pursuant to Hanson v. Lucky Stores Inc. (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 215, 228, the District did not have an obligation to
provide Petitioner with his preferred or ideal accommodation, but was only
required to provide some form of reasonable accommodation.  Petitioner’s religious objection was to
vaccination.  He had no legally
recognized objection to testing.  The
District offered him the option to test instead of being vaccinated, and he
rejected the option.  Thus, the issue of
whether Tucker was subject to the order is a red herring, as the District was
not obligated to offer employment at Tucker to Petitioner.
 
h.     Refusal
of Testing Limited to EUA Tests
Petitioner spends the next portion
of his brief arguing he did not object to being tested, and only objected to
undergoing tests that were not FDA-approved. 
This argument was addressed above, in connection with the Court’s
affirmation of the District’s decision to terminate on insubordination
grounds.  The Court finds Petitioner has
not articulated any reasonable basis for his refusal to undergo emergency use
tests, especially when no FDA-approved tests existed at the relevant time.
 
i.      Existence
of Accommodations 
Petitioner next argues the District
was able to accommodate his religious beliefs but refused to do so.  The Court addressed this argument above,
finding that the District did accommodate those beliefs, as it offered testing
as an alternative to vaccination.  
 
j.      Due
Process
Petitioner’s remaining arguments
are all centered around his contention that he was denied due process prior to
termination of his employment.  
 
i.             
Denial of Discovery
Petitioner first argues he was
denied the ability to conduct discovery on his claims.  Petitioner raised lack of discovery in his
closing brief before the hearing officer. 
The hearing officer’s decision is silent in this regard.  Petitioner contends, in his moving memorandum
in support of his position, that he was entitled to discovery because the
District promised certain discovery to him, but did not provide anything until
the evening before the hearing, and did not provide all documents.  The District, in opposition to the petition,
contends there is no right to conduct discovery in these administrative
proceedings.  Petitioner, in reply,
contends he had a right to discovery under the Education Code and also because
the District promised the discovery.
 
The Court finds any error was
harmless as a matter of law.  The facts
before the Court are not subject to reasonable dispute.  Petitioner was told he had to vaccinate or
test.  He refused.  There are no additional facts that would
support any alternative conclusion.  
 
ii.            
Public vs. Closed Hearing
Petitioner argued, before the
hearing officer, that the District violated his due process rights by
deliberating in a closed, rather than open (public) forum.  The hearing officer addressed and rejected
this contention at page 8, lines 2-6, but did not meaningfully discuss the
contention.  
 
Petitioner contends that Gov Code
§54957(b)(1) allows for closed sessions if the employee requests them, but he
contends he did NOT request a closed session, and therefore it was a violation
of his due process rights for the board to deliberate in a closed session.  LBUSD contends §§54957(a) and (b)(1)
permitted deliberation in a closed forum. 

 
These sections provide:
(a) This chapter shall not be
construed to prevent the legislative body of a local agency from holding closed
sessions with the Governor, Attorney General, district attorney, agency
counsel, sheriff, or chief of police, or their respective deputies, or a
security consultant or a security operations manager, on matters posing a
threat to the security of public buildings, a threat to the security of
essential public services, including water, drinking water, wastewater
treatment, natural gas service, and electric service, or a threat to the
public's right of access to public services or public facilities.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (2),
this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the legislative body of a local
agency from holding closed sessions during a regular or special meeting to
consider the appointment, employment, evaluation of performance, discipline, or
dismissal of a public employee or to hear complaints or charges brought against
the employee by another person or employee unless the employee requests a
public session.
(2) As a condition to holding a
closed session on specific complaints or charges brought against an employee by
another person or employee, the employee shall be given written notice of his
or her right to have the complaints or charges heard in an open session rather
than a closed session, which notice shall be delivered to the employee
personally or by mail at least 24 hours before the time for holding the
session. If notice is not given, any disciplinary or other action taken by the
legislative body against the employee based on the specific complaints or
charges in the closed session shall be null and void.
 
Subdivision (a), on its face, does
not apply.  There was no threat, as
defined in that section, that required the proceedings to take place in a
closed session.  Subdivision (b)(1) does
apply, and clearly permits a closed session, but the fact that the subdivision
specifically states, “unless the employee requests a public session” appears to
mean it’s up to the employee to have the proceedings be open or closed.  Especially when read in connection with
(b)(2), which specifically provides for 24 hours’ notice of the right to an
open, rather than closed, proceeding, the conclusion that the option was the
employee’s, not the employer’s, appears clear. 

 
The District cites various cases in
its opposition, but none are directly on point, as none considered a situation
where an employee asked for an open session and was denied the request.  The closest case to being on point is Kolter
v. Commission of Professional Competence of Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1353, which was cited by the District
to support its conclusion that the District was not required to deliberate in
open session or to invite Petitioner into closed session to observe
deliberations.  
 
In Kolter, the school board held
TWO sessions prior to dismissing the employee. 
The board first held a closed session, where it deliberated on the issue
of whether or not to initiate the termination process.  Thereafter, the board issued the required
24-hour notice, and then convened a second time, with the employee present and
in an open session, to actually vote to terminate the employee.
 
The problem with Kolter is that the
proceedings in this case that were closed were the actual termination
proceedings, not proceedings concerning whether or not to initiate termination
proceedings.  The proceedings therefore
violated the Code, and, per the express language of the Code, the proceedings
are null and void.  
 
iii.           
Vague Charges
Petitioner argues the charges
against him were unconstitutionally vague. 
The Court disagrees.  The charges
were clear and concise, and were based on his refusal to be vaccinated or
undergo weekly testing.  
 
k.     Progressive
Discipline
Petitioner’s final argument is that
the agreement between the union and the school board requires progressive
discipline.  The District correctly notes
that this is only required when possible per the terms of the contract.  The District repeatedly offered Petitioner
the alternative to test instead of becoming vaccinated. The District also
offered Petitioner the option of leave without pay, which he also refused.  It is unclear what other discipline was
available.  
 
l.          Reply Arguments
Petitioner argues, in reply, that
he was fired for being unable to report to work, but he was only unable to
report for work because the District refused to accommodate him.  This argument is rejected for the reasons
stated above.  The District offered two
reasonable accommodations – saliva tests or a leave of absence without
pay.  Petitioner refused both options.  
 
Petitioner also argues he could not
test because there were no FDA-approved tests. 
Again, the Court finds the District was well within its rights to
require Emergency Use tests under the circumstances.  
 

Remedy 

The final issue is the remedy to be
imposed.  Petitioner seeks reinstatement
of his employment plus back pay. 
Additionally, in the prayer portion of the petition, Petitioner seeks
attorneys’ fees, costs of suit, and punitive damages.  
 
Neither party meaningfully briefs
the appropriate relief in the event that a closed, rather than open, hearing
was held.  The Court is continuing the
hearing on this writ for six weeks, to Thursday, 6/13/24 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department S27.  Counsel must meet and
confer forthwith concerning the appropriate remedy in an attempt to avoid the
necessity of a further hearing. 
If Counsel are unable to come to
agreement concerning the appropriate remedy, then at least two weeks prior to
the hearing, each party must submit a brief concerning the sole issue of
remedy.  The briefs must be no more than
five pages each.  The parties must
provide on point authority concerning whether Petitioner is entitled to
reinstatement, back pay, costs, attorneys’ fees, and/or punitive damages.  
 
Petitioner is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   