 Case Number:  23LBCV00970    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“CAB”) filed this action
against Defendants, Motion Fitness Group, LLC (“Recalibrated) and its principal,
Alexandria Nguyen for breach of contract and related claims.  Plaintiff alleges its assignor, American
Textile Management Company dba Republic Master Chefs (“ATMC”) entered into a
contract with Motion pursuant to which ATMC would launder towels for Motion’s
gym.  CAB alleges Motion failed to pay ATMC
per the contract, and ATMC assigned its right to collect to CAB.  CAB sued Nguyen for breach of guarantee on the
agreement.
 

Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint

a.     Relief Sought
Defendants seek leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and
ATMC for fraud and related claims.  The crux of the proposed cross-complaint is
that ATMC made fraudulent statements concerning the nature of the parties’
agreement, and the fraudulent statements induced Motion to enter into the agreement.  Specifically, ATMC told Motion the price
quoted was for the necessary 2000 towels per week, but the price was actually
for only half of the necessary towels, and the price doubled after the parties had
entered into the formal agreement.  
 
b.     Law Governing Leave to File Compulsory
Cross-Complaint
CCP §426.30 defines a
cross-complaint as “compulsory” if it is pled against the plaintiff and
includes claims related to the subject matter of the complaint.  Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint clearly
meets this test to the extent it is pled against CAB.  To the extent the proposed cross-complaint is
pled against ATMC, currently a non-party to the action, it is permissive,
rather than compulsory.  
 
CCP §426.50 makes clear that the Court
MUST grant a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint unless it
finds the moving party is acting in bad faith. 
§428.50(c) permits the Court to grant a motion to file a permissive
cross-complaint “in the interest of justice.”
 
c.     Analysis 
Any opposition to the motion was due on or before 2/02/24.  The Court has not received timely opposition to
the motion, and will not consider late-filed opposition.  
 
The motion is granted.  As noted
above, to the extent the proposed cross-complaint is pled against Plaintiff,
leave is mandatory absent a showing of bad faith; in light of the lack of
opposition, no such showing has been made. 
As also noted above, to the extent the proposed cross-complaint is pled
against ATMC, the Court has the discretion to grant the motion in the interest
of justice.  The case has no trial date
scheduled, and the Court finds having all issues between the parties decided in
the same action is in the interest of justice. 

 

Case Management
     Conference

On 11/06/23, the Court held a
CMC.  The 11/06/23 minute order indicates
the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint scheduled for 2/15/24 is
continued to 2/15/24.  It appears the minute
order may have been entered in error, and that the Court’s intention was to
continue the CMC to 2/15/24 to be held concurrently with the hearing on the
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
Notably, the parties filed case management statements on 1/31/24 and
2/02/24 with conference dates of 2/15/24. 

 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.  