 Case Number:  22STCV04747    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jane Doe filed this
action against Defendants, LBUSD and Thomas Maggio for damages arising out of childhood
sexual assault perpetrated by Maggio while he was a teacher for LBUSD and
Plaintiff was a student.  Plaintiff
alleges the abuse occurred in 1996 while Plaintiff was in eighth grade and was
13-14 years old.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on
2/07/22, and LBUSD answered on 4/29/22. 
LBUSD filed a cross-complaint against Maggio.  Maggio answered the complaint and
cross-complaint on 10/31/22 and 11/14/22, respectively.  
 
On 2/28/23, the parties were
scheduled to participate in an informal discovery conference before the Honorable
Serena R. Murillo in the personal injury hub court.  The IDC was not held because the Court
referred the matter to Department 1 to determine whether it was complicated and
should be transferred to an IC court for all further proceedings.  On 3/08/23, the Court transferred the matter
to Department S27 for all further proceedings. 

 
3.         Discovery Issues
a.         Matters on Calendar
Plaintiff has motions to quash on
calendar today, 2/20/24, 2/22/24, 2/27/24, and 2/29/24.  Defendant has a related motion to compel on
calendar on 3/12/24.  Plaintiff has a
motion to compel production of records on calendar on 3/28/24.  The case is scheduled for trial on
9/03/24.  
 
b.         Continuance
The Court is continuing the hearing
on the 2/15/24, 2/20/24, 2/22/24, 2/27/24 and 2/29/24 motions to 3/12/24.  The Court will provide guidance to allow the
parties to meet and confer further prior to the 3/12/24 hearing.  If the parties are able to resolve their
issues, they must take the 3/12/24 motions off calendar.  If they are unable to resolve their issues,
the Court will be inclined to appoint a discovery referee.  The parties must submit referee nominations
and/or any argument in opposition to the reference at least five court days
prior to 3/12/24.  
 
c.         Guidance
All the motions detailed above ask
the Court to balance Plaintiff’s right of privacy against Defendant’s right to
learn of alternative sources of the emotional and mental distress she alleges
she suffered as a result of the assault that forms the basis of this
action.  Notably, Plaintiff argues the
discovery seeks to discover her sexual history, which is directly precluded by
CCP §2017.220; Defendant’s 3/12/24 motion concerns Defendant’s ability to
conduct such discovery in this case. The Court will, at this time, provide guidance
concerning both Defendant’s right to conduct discovery into sexual history and
also Defendant’s right to conduct the remainder of the subject discovery that
is not related to sexual history.
 
The Court will first consider
whether and to what extent Defendant can discover evidence relating to
Plaintiff’s sexual history.  CCP
§2017.220(a) provides:
In any civil action alleging
conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery,
any party seeking discovery concerning the plaintiff's sexual conduct with
individuals other than the alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts
showing that there is good cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought
to be discovered is relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. This showing shall
be made by a noticed motion, accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040, and shall not be made or considered by the court at an ex
parte hearing.
 
Evidence Code §1106 details whether
and when evidence of sexual history is admissible in a civil action.  It provides:
(a) In any civil action alleging
conduct which constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery,
opinion evidence, reputation evidence, and evidence of specific instances of
the plaintiff's sexual conduct, or any of that evidence, is not admissible by
the defendant in order to prove consent by the plaintiff or the absence of
injury to the plaintiff, unless the injury alleged by the plaintiff is in the
nature of loss of consortium.
(b) Subdivision (a) does not apply
to evidence of the plaintiff's sexual conduct with the alleged perpetrator.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision
(b), in any civil action brought pursuant to Section 1708.5 of the Civil Code
involving a minor and adult as described in Section 1708.5.5 of the Civil Code,
evidence of the plaintiff minor's sexual conduct with the defendant adult shall
not be admissible to prove consent by the plaintiff or the absence of injury to
the plaintiff. Such evidence of the plaintiff's sexual conduct may only be
introduced to attack the credibility of the plaintiff in accordance with
Section 783 or to prove something other than consent by the plaintiff if, upon
a hearing of the court out of the presence of the jury, the defendant proves
that the probative value of that evidence outweighs the prejudice to the
plaintiff consistent with Section 352.
(d) If the plaintiff introduces
evidence, including testimony of a witness, or the plaintiff as a witness gives
testimony, and the evidence or testimony relates to the plaintiff's sexual
conduct, the defendant may cross-examine the witness who gives the testimony
and offer relevant evidence limited specifically to the rebuttal of the
evidence introduced by the plaintiff or given by the plaintiff.
(e) This section shall not be
construed to make inadmissible any evidence offered to attack the credibility
of the plaintiff as provided in Section 783.
 
Defendant argues §1106 makes clear
that (a) evidence relating to Plaintiff’s sexual history with Maggio is
admissible per §1106(b), (b) to the extent the evidence shows Plaintiff’s ex-husband
sexually abused her, this would be admissible to prove the nature and extent of
the injuries sustained as a result of Maggio’s abuse, and (c) the purpose of
§1106 is to preclude the defendant from arguing a victim of a sexual assault
consented to the act because she was promiscuous, but that is not what
Defendant is seeking to do here; Defendant is seeking to show a history of
trauma that contributed to Plaintiff’s emotional and mental injuries, which
includes any abuse by her ex-husband.
 
Defendant’s first argument is
misplaced.  §1106(a) provides that
evidence of specific instances of the plaintiff’s sexual conduct is not admissible
to prove consent or absence of injury. 
§1106(b) provides that (a) does not apply to evidence of the plaintiff’s
sexual conduct with the alleged perpetrator. 
§1106(c), however, then provides that, if the plaintiff was a minor at
the time of the assault, evidence of the conduct with the defendant is not
admissible to show consent or absence of injury.  Thus, the code does not, on its face, permit
discovery into the details of the assault at issue in this case.  That said, nothing in the code precludes discovery
of every conversation Plaintiff may have ever had relating to Maggio’s assault;
if Plaintiff discussed the assault and her distress relating to the assault
with the health care providers whose records have been subpoenaed, those
records would clearly be relevant to this action.
 
The Court understands that the
remainder of Defendant’s argument re: §1106 concerns Plaintiff’s claimed
damages.  This is a delicate issue, but the
Court is inclined to agree with Defendant. 
To the extent there is evidence of sexual abuse by Plaintiff’s ex-husband
in the records, that evidence would be admissible to show alternative or
additional causation of Plaintiff’s ongoing emotional and mental distress.  It would not be admissible to show consent or
absence of injury, but rather to show Plaintiff’s ongoing emotional injuries
have an additional or alternative source.
 
Defendant discusses the holding in
Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, wherein the California Supreme
Court discussed the scope of a mental health examination of a plaintiff
claiming emotional distress damages as a result of sexual harassment.  The Court made clear that the defendant could
not conduct an examination into the plaintiff’s sexual history or practices,
but could require a psychiatric examination into the source and scope of her
claimed damages.  Thus, the examiner was
precluded from discussing the plaintiff’s sexual history or practices, but was
permitted to discuss the plaintiff’s mental and emotional health, including
potential other sources of pain or stress that could be contributing to her
claimed distress.
In this case, Plaintiff has
admitted to severe abuse from her ex-husband. 
A mental health examiner would be permitted, under Vinson, to discover
the details of that abuse, because it would be an alternative source of mental and
emotional distress.  Similarly, then, the
records relating to that abuse should also be discoverable.  The Court is inclined to find that includes
any records relating to sexual abuse, because the records would not relate to
Plaintiff’s sexual history or practices, but rather to alternative sources of
her distress.
 
In conclusion, the Court finds any
medical records that discuss the source(s) of Plaintiff’s mental and emotional
health problems are discoverable by Defendant in this case.  The Court recognizes Plaintiff’s right to privacy
in the records, but finds the need for Defendant to defend itself outweighs
that right to privacy.  The Court asks
the parties to meet and confer in light of the above guidance, and to attempt
to resolve the remaining issues without the need for the 3/12/24 hearing if possible.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   