 Case Number:  21STCV35939    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Martin Delgado filed
this action against Defendant, Super Center Concepts, Inc. on 9/29/21 for
damages arising out of a fall Plaintiff sustained while shopping at Defendant’s
store.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
he was using a mobility scooter and, upon standing to exit the scooter, the
scooter seat base broke and/or detached from its base, causing Plaintiff to
sustain injuries.
 
On 11/22/21, Defendant answered the
complaint and filed a cross-complaint against Amigo Mobility International,
Inc. for indemnification and related claims. 
Amigo is the entity that manufactured the scooter on which Plaintiff fell.  
 
On 1/04/24, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint adding Amigo as a
defendant in the action; the amended complaint did not make any material
changes to the allegations against Super Center.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Law
Governing Summary Judgment
 Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential
element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety
of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974)
11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.    
Initial Note
Amigo filed a response to Super
Center’s summary judgment motion, as well as various declarations and documents
related to the response.  The essence of
the response is that Amigo does not oppose the motion, and Amigo notes that
Super Center is not seeking any relief vis-à-vis the cross-complaint running
between it and Amigo.  Amigo argues that,
similar to Super Center’s argument, there is also no evidence that it (Amigo)
caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. 

 
Plaintiff filed an objection to all
of Amigo’s papers, arguing Amigo is improperly seeking consideration of the
merits of the case against Amigo, and has improperly filed and served evidence concerning
the merits of the case against it that the Court should not consider without
proper notice.  
 
The Court is making no
determination concerning Plaintiff’s case against Amigo or Super Center’s
cross-complaint against Amigo.  The Court
notes that Amigo’s “response” adds nothing to the analysis of the motion.  The Court has reviewed the papers filed by
Amigo, and finds no reason to strike the papers as suggested by Plaintiff, but
does state, for the record, that the papers did not play any role in the Court’s
resolution of the merits or outcome of the summary judgment motion filed by
Super Center.
 
c.    
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff filed objections to the
Declarations of Velasquez and Sermeno with his opposition papers.  As will be discussed more fully below, the objections
are sustained.  
 
d.    
Moving Burden
Super Center has the moving burden
to show it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law because there is no
dispute that nothing it did caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries
sustained while exiting the subject mobility cart on the date of the
incident.  As discussed above, Super
Center can meet this burden in two ways. 
First, it can affirmatively provide evidence that the cart was not
defective.  Alternatively, it can provide
evidence that it propounded the full panoply of discovery on Plaintiff, and
Plaintiff’s responses to discovery revealed a lack of knowledge concerning any
defect in the cart.  
 
Super Center tries, but fails, to
meet its moving burden in both respects. 
First, it tries to meet its moving burden to show the subject cart was
not defective by providing affirmative evidence.  Specifically, it provides the Declarations of
Nancy Sermeno and Eric Velasquez.  Velasquez
declares he is the store director at the store where Plaintiff was
injured.  He states, at ¶¶9-10 of his
declaration, that there were no complaints about the cart prior to the injury
or after the injury.  He fails, however, to
lay a foundation for this statement, and therefore Plaintiff’s objections are sustained.  He fails to indicate what system Super Center
has for lodging complaints, whether he reviewed any such system, whether he
would be the person to whom such complaints would inevitably be directed,
etc.  Similarly, Nancy Sermeno declares
she was the office clerk at the subject store until 2022 and is now the active
sales manager.  At ¶¶6-7 of her
declaration, she also declares there were no complaints about the cart before
or after the incident.  She also fails,
however, to provide any details concerning how she would have this information,
and therefore Plaintiff’s objections are sustained.  Without adequate foundation for these
statements, Defendant failed to meet its moving burden to show it has
affirmative evidence that the carts were not defective at the time of the incident.
 
Defendant next attempts to shift
the burden by arguing Plaintiff lacks evidence concerning how the cart broke
when he stood up.  Defendant relies on
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, wherein he admitted he did not know why the
seat popped out of place and does not know if there is a latch to make the chair
pop or detach.  This testimony does not
constitute a showing that Defendant propounded a “full panoply” of discovery on
Plaintiff and his responses were factually devoid.  Notably, determinations concerning what
causes a cart to pop out of place would normally be within the scope of expert testimony,
and a person using a cart would not be expected to know the cause of the defect
on his own.  Thus, Defendant failed to
shift the burden in this manner also.
 
The motion is denied on the ground
that Defendant failed to meet its moving burden to show nothing it did caused
or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries.  
 
e.    
Shifted Burden
Because Defendant did not meet the
moving burden, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue
of material fact.  The Court does,
however, note that fact 15 is disputed.  Fact
15 states that the carts, which the parties agree were delivered a week prior
from Amigo, did not come with instructions or information that the seat or any
part of the cart needed to be assembled, installed, inserted, or otherwise
serviced prior to having store customers use the cart.  Fact 15 is supported with the Declaration of
Velasquez, who simply states the foregoing. 

 
Plaintiff provides the actual owner’s
manual, which Defendant produced in discovery. 
At page 7 of the manual, the manual explains that the seat need not be
removed unless it needs to be replaced, but then explains, “the ‘opening
pedastal’ design allows access to the batteries, controller and charger without
requiring tools.  With two hands, pull
both release levers apart to open the cover (Figure 8).”  Figure 8 shows two levers immediately under
the seat, which appear to indicate the seat can then be pulled up (but not
removed) to access the batteries, controller, and charger.  
 
There is no evidence, with the moving
papers, that Defendant, through its employees, did not open the seat to access
the batteries, controller, or charger prior to the incident.  If Defendant’s employees did so, then the
jury could conclude Defendant caused Plaintiff’s incident by failing to
properly secure the seat after doing so. 
Again, it is Defendant’s moving burden to negate this allegation, and
Defendant did not do so, either through competent affirmative evidence or through
defective discovery responses.  
 
The motion is therefore denied on the
additional ground that there are triable issues of material fact concerning what
caused the incident.  
 
f.      Notice
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.