 Case Number:  23LBCV01099    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Brian Jones filed this
action against Defendants, Borba Investment Realty, Inc. and Charles B. Roselli
for damages arising out of the parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  The crux of the complaint is that Defendants
leased a property to Plaintiff in substandard condition, and the condition of
the property caused Plaintiff damage.  Plaintiff
alleges he resided in the subject property from October of 2018 until February
of 2023.  
 
The complaint includes causes of
action for (all causes of action are pled against all defendants):
·        
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4
·        
Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability
·        
Private Nuisance
·        
Violation of BPC §17200, et seq.
·        
Negligence
·        
Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
·        
IIED
·        
Negligence Per Se
·        
Violation of the CLRA
·        
Violation of FEHA
·        
Violation of the Long Beach tenant harassment
ordinance
 
2.     Demurrer
(Defendant, Borba Investment Realty, Inc.)
a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP §430.10(a)
a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he called
Plaintiff’s attorney, who never returned the call.  He declares he then emailed Plaintiff’s
attorney, and Plaintiff’s attorney never responded to the email.  Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.  Plaintiff’s attorney’s
conduct is unacceptable.  Counsel must
participate in meet and confer conversations in this and other cases.
 
c.     Initial
Note
This demurrer was originally
scheduled for hearing on 6/11/24.  On 11/17/23,
the Court held a Case Management Conference. 
At the CMC, the Court advanced the hearing and scheduled it for
2/15/24.  Both parties, through their
attorneys, appeared at the CMC.  Counsel
waived notice.  
 
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 2/01/24.  The Court has
not received timely opposition to the demurrer. 
The Court will not consider late-filed opposition.  
 
d.     Analysis
Borba demurs to each and every
cause of action pled against it.  Borba
contends it is alleged to have been the property manager of the subject
property, but each and every cause of action pled against it can only be pled
against the owner, not manager, of the property.   Borba shows that numerous statutes pursuant
to which Plaintiff has sued expressly indicate the action can be pled against
the “owner” of the property.  Borba also
shows that, to the extent Plaintiff’s complaint is based on a contractual relationship,
Plaintiff only had such a relationship with Roselli, and not with Borba, such
that contractual claims cannot be pled against it.
 
In the absence of opposition, the
demurrer is sustained.  Because this is a
purely legal issue, leave to amend is denied. 
The Court will consider granting leave to amend if and only if Plaintiff
appears at the hearing and articulates how he would amend if given leave to do
so.  
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Borba’s motion to strike is moot in
light of the ruling on the demurrer.
 
4.     Demurrer
(Defendant, Roselli)
a.    
Meet and Confer
Again, Plaintiff failed to
participate in meet and confer communications. 
Plaintiff must do so in the future, as discussed above.  
 
b.    
Analysis
Roselli demurs to the private
nuisance, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, IIED, CLRA, FEHA, and
tenant harassment ordinance causes of action. 
The crux of Roselli’s demurrer is that all of the subject cause of
action are alleged to arise out of the parties’ duties under the subject lease,
but Plaintiff did not attach the lease.  The
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend on this ground; Plaintiff must attach
the lease to an amended pleading.
 
Roselli also argues the IIED cause
of action fails to allege extreme and outrageous conduct, the FEHA cause of
action fails to allege facts showing discrimination, and the harassment cause
of action fails to allege facts showing harassment.  The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend
on each of these additional grounds; Plaintiff must plead additional facts in
an amended pleading if he wishes to pursue these claims.  
 
5.     Conclusion
Borba’s demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  Its motion to
strike is moot.  Roselli’s demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend.  Plaintiff
is ordered to file an amended complaint, in compliance with this order, within twenty
days.  Roselli is ordered to file a responsive
pleading within the statutory time thereafter. 
If Roselli challenges the amended pleading, Plaintiff must fully
participate in the meet and confer communications and must file opposition to
the challenge if he wishes to pursue his claims.  
 
6.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrers and motion
to strike.  The Court asks the parties to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrers, motion
and the CMC.  