  Case Number:  19STCV23201    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 17, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE:  Vacated
                                                           
CASE:                         Tyler Evans v. AIDS
Healthcare Foundation
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV23201
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF TYLER EVANS
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Tyler
Evans
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On July 2, 2019, Plaintiff Tyler Evans (“Evans” or
“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
(“AHF” or “Defendant”).  On October 9,
2019, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The FAC asserted causes of action for: 
 
1.     
Violation of Labor Code §
1102.5; 
2.     
Violation of Health & Safety
Code § 1278.5; 
3.     
Violation of Business &
Professions Code § 510; 
4.     
Sexual Orientation Discrimination in
Violation of Government Code § 12940, et seq.;
5.     
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy; 
6.     
Breach of Written Contract;
7.     
Breach of the Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 
8.     
Failure to Provide Employment
Records in Violation of Labor Code §§ 226 & 1198.5. 
                         
Evans worked as AHF’s Director of Infectious Disease and
Medical Director from December 16, 2016 to September 27, 2018.  He alleged that he was wrongfully terminated
after complaining to AHF senior management about conduct he believed was
unlawful and threatened patient safety.  In
retaliation, AHF falsely accused Evans of communicating with other AHF
employees in a sexual nature.  Evans also
alleged the false accusations were motivated by Evans’s heterosexuality. 
 
            Procedural
Background
 
On July 6, 2023, AHF moved for summary adjudication on the
ground that Evans’s termination was based upon good faith, non-retaliatory and
non-discriminatory reasons.  The motion
was set for September 21, 2023.
 
Prior to the hearing on its Motion for Summary Adjudication,
AHF discovered a document which it believed Evans had falsified: an email that
Evans asserted as a pre-termination whistleblower complaint from him to the Los
Angeles County of Department of Public Health. 
On September 13, 2023, AHF met and conferred with Evans about the
document and propounded written discovery concerning the altered e-mail
document.  AHF also demanded to inspect
the email in its native file format.  
 
On September 19, 2023, AHF filed an ex parte application to
continue the hearing for the Motion for Summary Adjudication.  The court granted the ex parte application.
 
Evans did not produce the email in its native file format or
agree to the inspection of his email account or computer.  Instead, on September 26, 2023, Evans
dismissed this action without prejudice.
 
On October 11, 2023, AHF filed its Memorandum of Costs as
the prevailing party.
 
On October 30, 2023, Evans filed his Motion to Strike and/or
Tax Costs.
 
Thereafter, AHF re-served Evans with the same limited
discovery (Document Requests, Inspection Requests, Requests for Admission, and
Form Interrogatories) that AHF had served prior to Evans’s dismissal.  AHF also noticed Evans’s deposition.   
 
Evans’s Deposition
 
On December 22, 2023, Evans objected to the deposition
notice.  Meet and confer efforts followed
without any agreement from Evans that he would sit for deposition.
 
On January 4, 2024, AHF filed this Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Deposition and for Sanctions. 
On the same day, AHF filed an ex parte application to continue the
hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to strike and/or tax Defendant’s Memorandum of
Costs.  Over Evans’s objection, the court
granted the ex parte application.  
 
Motions to Compel Evans’s Further Responses to Discovery
 
On March 1, 2024, AHF filed Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Six, and a Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission, Set Three.
 
On March 4, 2024, AHF filed a Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Four, and a Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Inspection Demand, Set Two.
 
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC)
 
On March 7, 2024, the parties participated in an IDC
regarding the foregoing discovery motions.  The issues were not resolved.  The court set a briefing scheduling regarding
the following threshold issues:[1]
 
1.     
Does the Christiansburg
standard apply to FEHA claims with respect to awarding costs?
2.     
Does the Christiansburg
standard apply to Labor Code section 1102.5 claims with respect to awarding
costs?
3.     
Does the Christiansburg
standard apply to a case with both FEHA and whistleblower claims, such that
discovery can be sought on only one or the other types of claims?[2]
 
The issues
have been briefed.  The court rules as
follows.
 
II.        DISCUSSION 
 
            Central to the discovery disputes is whether AHF may
recover attorney fees as the prevailing party when Evans brought FEHA and
non-FEHA claims, and if so, what standard applies.  Accordingly, the court requested that the
parties brief several issues.  The court
addresses each in turn.
 
Issue
1: Does the Christiansburg standard apply to FEHA claims
with respect to awarding costs?
 
            Here, the
parties agree that the holding in Christiansburg Garment Co. v. E.E.O.C. (1978)
434 U.S. 412 (Christiansburg) applies to FEHA claims with respect to
awarding costs.  
In Christiansburg, the United States Supreme
Court held that a trial court may award
attorney fees to prevailing plaintiffs in an Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (“EEOC”) action simply when the plaintiff in such an action
prevails, but that the discretion does not extend to awarding a prevailing defendant
its attorney fees unless the trial court finds that the plaintiff’s EEOC “claim
was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless, or that the plaintiff continued to
litigate after it clearly became so.”  (Christiansburg,
434 U.S. at p. 422.)  In 2010, the
California Supreme Court held that the Christiansburg standard applied to
an award of costs in a FEHA action.  (Williams
v. Chino Valley Independent Fire District (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 99-100.)   In
sum, the unequivocal answer to Issue 1 is “Yes.”
 
Issue
2: Does
the Christiansburg standard apply to Labor Code section 1102.5 claims
with respect to awarding costs?
 
            Here, the
parties agree that the Christiansburg standard does not apply to Evans’s
Labor Code section 1102.5 “whistleblower” claim.  Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b)
provides, “[a]n employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall
not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information, or because the
employer believes that the employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a
government or law enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the
employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or
correct the violation or noncompliance, or for providing information to, or
testifying before, any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or
inquiry, if the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or
noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of
whether disclosing the information is part of the employee's job duties.”¿
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).)¿ The court is authorized to award reasonable
attorney's fees to a plaintiff who brings a successful action for a violation
of these provisions.  (Lab. Code, §
1102.5, subd. (i).)¿
 
            As the
parties correctly point out, Labor Code section 1102.5 is silent on the
applicable standard for awarding costs to the prevailing party.  Absent any clear statutory language or case law
directing otherwise, Code of Civil Procedure section 1032,[3]
the general costs statute, applies to the Labor Code section 1102.5 claim.
 
            Issue 3: Does the Christiansburg standard apply to a case
with both FEHA and whistleblower claims, such that discovery can be sought on
only one or the other types of claims?
 
            After
reviewing the parties’ briefing, the central question is whether Evans’s FEHA
claim was frivolous.  Evans’s alleged in
his FAC: “Defendant
AHF levied false accusations against Plaintiff asserting that he had
communicated with employees of Defendant AHF in a sexual nature. In fact,
Defendant AHF unlawfully imposed a sexual connotation to Plaintiff’s
communications, none of which were sexual in nature. The imposition of this
sexual connotation to Plaintiff’s communication and subsequent discipline was
based upon Defendant AHF’s discriminatory animus towards Plaintiff’s
heterosexuality.” (FAC, ¶ 14.)   
 
            In Evans’s
Motion to Strike and/or Tax Costs, he challenges AHF’s Memorandum of costs on
the grounds that the FEHA claim was potentially meritorious.  In making this argument, Evans does not rely
on the allegedly altered e-mail to support its argument that the FEHA had
merit.  Given Evans’s lack of
reliance on the e-mail, AHF is hard pressed to demonstrate its relevance.  Clearly, if Evans relied upon the email to counter
AHF’s argument, the analysis would be different.  And if Evens does seek support from the email
to argue there was merit to his FEHA claim, the court will grant AHF’s
discovery request.  However, as the
memorandum of costs currently stands, the email lacks relevance.  The only purpose for AHF to conduct discovery
regarding the email is to thwart Evans ability to use the email in support of
its argument that the FEHA was not frivolous. 
But AHF has already accomplished this goal.    Evans
has already conceded the point and is not and will not rely upon the email.  Discovery does not further AHF’s cause.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the court will hear from the parties on the relevance of discovery
regarding the allegedly altered e-mail as to the merits of Plaintiff’s FEHA
claim.
 
 
 
Dated:   April 17, 2024                                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


