 Case Number:  24STCV09959    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’ Special
Motion to Strike Complaint & Defendants’ Demurrer
Anti-SLAPP Motion
Defendants Will Abbott, Alexey
Mikhaylov, Thomas Rini, 4E Capital LP, and Pharm Capital, LLC specially move to strike the entire complaint
by plaintiffs Meridian Capital LLC, M2 Growth Partners IV, LLC, OBM PDG,
LLC, Wilmington Investors, LLC, Omar Mangalji, David Mehlman, and Michael
Steinberg.
Request for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiffs
request judicial notice of two exhibits: the complaint in another action, Case
No. 24STCV02587, and the memorandum of points and authorities in support of an
application for an attachment order in that action.  The existence and legal effects of these
documents (but not the facts stated therein) are subject to judicial notice
under Evidence Code § 452(d).  (Steed
v. Department of Consumer Affairs (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 112, 120.)
            The
court grants plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice of
exhibits 1 and 2.
Legal Standard for Anti-SLAPP Motion
Courts
use a two-step process for resolving anti-SLAPP motions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16: “First, the court decides whether the defendant has
made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity.”  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 88 (Navellier).)  The defendant must show “the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning
activity.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  
Second,
once the defendant establishes the first element, courts “must then determine
whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the
claim.”  (Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at p. 88.) 
“[T]he plaintiff need only have stated and substantiated a legally
sufficient claim.”  (Ibid., internal quotes and citations omitted.)  “[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit
may proceed.”  (Id. at p.
94.)  “Put another way, the plaintiff
‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported
by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if
the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ”  (Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Step One: Protected Activity
Defendants meet
their burden of showing the entire complaint seeks to hold them liable for protected
activity.  Protected activity
includes “any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law.”  (CCP § 425.16(e)(2).)  This provision is “construed broadly, to
protect the right of litigants” and applies to a communication “if it has ‘
“some relation” ’ to judicial proceedings.” 
(Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.)  “[A] statement is
‘in connection with’ litigation under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2) if it
relates to the substantive issues in the litigation and is directed to persons
having some interest in the litigation.” 
(Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266.)  This provision also applies to statements in
connection with “anticipated litigation.” 
(Bel Air Internet, LLC v. Morales (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 924,
943.)
Each cause of action alleges defendants
are liable for the same events.  Plaintiffs
and defendants all lent money to non-party Pacific Consolidated Holdings Group,
Inc. (PCH).  (Comp., ¶¶ 1-3.)  After PCH “began having difficulty paying all
of its debt obligations” (¶ 5), “the Defendants insisted on exclusive repayment
to only themselves, demanding that PCH forego all other debt obligations in
order to pay the Defendants” (¶ 7).  “PCH’s
largest funding source comes through” plaintiff “OBM PDG which receives monthly
payments from a group of connected commercial cannabis cultivation companies”
referred to as the “PDG Group.”  (¶
10.)  The complaint alleges, “Defendants
went to the PDG Group directly (with whom they have no contractual
relationship) and demanded that all future payments OBM PDG was entitled to instead
be redirected to Defendants.”  (¶ 11.)
The complaint further alleges that after
attempts to restructure PCH (Comp., ¶¶ 57-64), “[f]ormal demand was made on
September 25, 2023, from the Defendants’ attorneys at Coppersmith Brockelman,
sent to PCH, in which they voiced objections to PCH’s allocation of funds
received from the PDG Group” (¶ 67).  “On
November 9, 2023, Defendants sent two additional letters to PCH.”  (¶ 69.) 
The first “asserted that 4E was ‘lead lender’ under the Restructuring
LOI, and was thereby entitled to priority payment.”  (Ibid.)  The second letter “was a notice of default on
behalf of 4E and Pharm.”  (¶ 70.)  
These demands and letters were all connected
to anticipated litigation: “[O]n January 31, 2024, 4E, Pharm, and Mikhaylov,
now represented by Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (‘Katten’), filed a lawsuit
against PCH, Mangalji, Steinberg, Mehlman, Zevo, and Meridian Via Real.”  (Comp., ¶ 76.)  
The complaint also alleges defendants are
liable for communications sent after that lawsuit began.  It alleges, “Katten, on behalf of the
Defendants, sent a letter to the PDG Group on February 12, 2024, falsely
asserted authority under the Restructuring LOI and as ‘lead lender.’  It further ‘notified and instructed’ the PDG
Group ‘to remit payment of the full amount of each monthly payment of the PDG
Notes directly to Lenders, rather than to PCH.’ ”  (Comp., ¶ 78.)  Plaintiffs further allege that defendant “Abbott
has personally contacted the PDG Group and/or their counsel on multiple
occasions demanding that payment be made to the Defendants (and not to any
other PCH creditor).”  (¶ 84.)  These communications are connected to the
lawsuit 4E, Pharm, and Mikhaylov filed against PCH and others.  (Comp., ¶ 76.)  
Plaintiffs contend the communications are
only evidence supporting liability—rather than the acts for which defendants
are liable.  (Opp., p. 9.)  “ ‘[A] claim may be struck only if the speech
or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and not just
evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for which
liability is asserted.’  [Citation.]  Thus, in evaluating an anti-SLAPP motion,
‘courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions
by [the] defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for
liability.’ ”  (Golden Gate Land Holdings
LLC v. Direct Action Everywhere (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 82, 90.)     
Plaintiffs’
opposition repeatedly makes conclusory arguments that protected communications
do not supply the elements of the complaint’s causes of action.  For example, plaintiffs argue, “The core of
Plaintiffs’ claims lies in Defendants’ wrongful business practices, such as
redirecting payments and interfering with contractual relations.”  (Opp., p. 4, citing Comp., ¶¶ 75-79, 90-96.)  But plaintiffs do not actually allege
defendants redirected payments.  They
allege defendants told others where to direct payments.  
In their
opposition, plaintiffs cite two groups of allegations that purportedly
consisted of conduct.  (Opp. pp.
4-6.)  The first group concerns a December
12, 2023, letter (¶ 75), filing a lawsuit (¶ 76), and a “campaign of
harassment” (¶ 77), which apparently consisted of Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP sending
a February 12, 2024, letter to the PDG Group (¶ 78) that “asserted” rights
under “the Restructuring LOI” (¶ 79).  The
second group concerns a contract between plaintiff OBM PDG and the PDG Group (Comp.,
¶¶ 90-91), that defendants knew about it (¶ 92), and that “Defendants sought to
disrupt the contractual relationship … by falsely claiming lead lender status
and assignment of the PDG Settlement Terms through the
Katten Letter and various related communications with the PDG Group” (¶ 93).  Finally, this portion of the complaint
alleges defendants knew “their demands in the Katten Letter were likely to
interfere with the contractual relationship” (¶ 94) and alleges defendants
caused an actual disruption (¶ 95).  All
those things—letters, assertions, making claims through communications, and
demands—constitute protected activity made in connection with an official
proceeding.  Plaintiffs identify nothing specific
other than speech that supplies an element of any cause of action.  
The opposition
further argues, “Plaintiffs’ lawsuit seeks redress for Defendants’
business-related wrongdoing, specifically their misrepresentations, breaches of
contract, and fraudulent conduct.”  (Opp., p. 7.) 
Misrepresentations are speech.  As
for breaches of contract, the complaint does not allege defendants breached any
contract.  But assuming the complaint did
so, the opposition argues defendants breached “confidentiality
agreements.”  (Id., pp. 5, 7, 9, 12.)  A confidentiality agreement is a binding promise
not to speak.  One breaches such an agreement
by speaking.  When connected to
litigation, any such speech would be protected activity.  (See DaimlerChrysler Motors Co. v. Lew Williams,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 344, 351 [“the mere fact the constitutional speech occurred in violation
of a contract dd not by itself preempt the application of the anti-SLAPP
statute.  Rather, the issue of breach was
to be addressed under the statute’s merits prong”].)  As for “fraudulent conduct,” plaintiffs fail
to identify any allegations of fraudulent conduct that did not constitute
communications or speech connected to the prior lawsuit.  
Plaintiffs’ opposition relies on conclusory
characterizations of the effects of defendants’ “conduct.”  Plaintiffs do not, however, identify any
non-communicative act that supplies the elements of their claims.  Plaintiffs therefore do not rebut defendants’
showing that the entire complaint arises from protected activity.  
Step Two: Probability of Prevailing on the
Merits
            Plaintiffs
do not meet their burden of showing a probability of prevailing on the merits
of any of their seven causes of action.
A. Failure to Present Evidence
            Except
the two documents subject to judicial notice, plaintiffs did not submit any
admissible evidence with their opposition. 
“[A] plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim ‘may not
rely solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made
upon competent admissible evidence.’ ”  (Sweetwater
Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931,
940.)  Several cases have held that
granting an anti-SLAPP motion was proper where the plaintiff “failed to offer
any admissible evidence to establish a prima facie case.”  (San Diegans for Open Government v. San
Diego State University Research Foundation (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 76, 109
[citing two prior cases].)
            Plaintiffs’
opposition relies solely on the documents subject to judicial notice and on
plaintiffs’ unverified complaint—including numerous exhibits they did not
attach to the complaint.  In response to
the court’s request, after defendants filed their motion to strike, plaintiffs
filed an errata to their unverified complaint, attaching the exhibits thereto
that were not previously filed.  But
exhibits attached to an errata to an unverified complaint are not
evidence.  
By themselves, exhibits 1 and 2 to the
request for judicial notice do not support any of plaintiffs’ causes of action.  Exhibit 1 only establishes defendants filed a
lawsuit against PCH.  Plaintiffs cite
exhibit 2 as evidence showing that “while Defendants insisted on securing an
interest in PCH’s assets, including the PDG Notes, the necessary security
documentation was never finalized or executed, rendering any claims of a
secured interest baseless.”  (Opp., p.
12.)  Without evidence defendants claimed
a secured interest, exhibit 2 does not constitute prima facie evidence of any
element of plaintiffs’ claims. 
B. Litigation Privilege
The litigation privilege bars all seven causes
of action by plaintiffs against the moving defendants.  “A plaintiff cannot establish a probability
of prevailing if the litigation privilege precludes the defendant’s liability
on the claim.”  (Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 888 (Digerati).)  “ ‘[T]he privilege applies to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects
of the litigation; and (4) that [has] some connection or logical relation to
the action.’ ”  (Action Apartment
Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.)  
The litigation privilege “is an absolute
privilege and bars all tort cases of action except a claim of malicious
prosecution.”  (Geragos v. Abelyan
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1005, 1031.)  “The
litigation privilege protects even communication made with an intent to harm,
so long as the communication is made in ‘relation’ to a pending/ongoing or
genuinely contemplated judicial or other official proceeding.”  (Id. at pp. 1031-1032.)  It is ‘not limited to statements made during
a trial or other proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior thereto, or
afterwards.’ ”  (Id. at p.
1032.)  
The complaint alleges seven tort causes of action against defendants
based on communications they made in relation to the action 4E, Pharm, and
Mikhaylov filed in January 2024.  (Comp.,
¶ 76; RJN, Ex. 1.)  At the heart of
plaintiffs’ suit is their allegation that defendants, though counsel, intentionally
made false claims that they were lead lenders entitled to priority over other
creditors.  But plaintiffs present no evidence
to support that allegation.  Moreover,
even if plaintiffs could support this allegation with evidence, the litigation
privilege protects the statements made by defendants’ lawyers.
In Digerati, the court held the litigation privilege applied to
prelitigation statements made to third parties. 
There, a musician had a dispute with a film production film over a
documentary film.  (Digerati, supra,
194 Cal.App.4th at pp. 877-878.)  The
musician’s attorney “inform[ed] distributors that the film was not authorized
and threaten[ed] them with litigation.” 
(Id. at p. 886.)  The court
concluded those statements were both protected activity under the anti-SLAPP
statute (id. at pp. 887-888) and “protected by the litigation privilege”
(id. at p. 889).  Digerati
is on point.  The alleged statements by
defendants’ lawyers asserting defendants were entitled to priority as creditors
are analogous to the statement made in Digerati by a musician’s attorney
to film distributors.  Both were
statements made in connection with a genuinely contemplated or ongoing judicial
proceeding.  
None of the cases plaintiffs cite support their position.  The court shall review three of them.
In Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young
& Co. (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 392, 406 (Mattco), the court noted
the litigation privilege did not apply to certain causes of action, including
breach of contract and malicious prosecution. 
(Ibid.)  The court further
noted that the privilege does not protect “a claim for damages under the
Invasion of Privacy Act (Pen.Code, § 630 et seq.), a psychotherapist’s
voluntary disclosure during a custody proceeding of a patient’s confidential
communications, or … statements made in a judicial proceeding that violate a
contractual provision not to disclose a former employer’s trade secrets.”  (Mattco, at p. 406.)  Here, plaintiffs do not assert a breach of
contract or malicious prosecution cause of action.  Though the opposition argues defendants
breached a confidentiality agreement, plaintiffs neither alleged that in the
complaint nor presented any admissible evidence to support such an allegation.  Mattco does not support plaintiffs’
position.
Plaintiffs’ reliance on Oren Royal Oaks
Venture v. Greenberg, Bernhard, Weiss & Karma, Inc. (1986) 42 Cal.3d
1157, 1168 (Oren) is similarly unpersuasive.  There, the court explained, “ ‘The privileges
of Civil Code section 47, unlike evidentiary privileges which function by
the exclusion of evidence [citation], operate as limitations upon
liability.’ ”  (Ibid.)  The court did not address the substantive
reach of the litigation privilege.  Oren
too fails to support plaintiffs’ position. 

Finally, plaintiffs’ reliance on Flatley
v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299 (Flatley) is misplaced.  There, the California Supreme Court held,
“[W]here a defendant brings a motion to strike under section 425.16 based on a
claim that the plaintiff’s action arises from activity by the defendant in
furtherance of the defendant's exercise of protected speech or petition rights,
but either the defendant concedes, or the evidence conclusively establishes,
that the assertedly protected speech or petition activity was illegal as a
matter of law, the defendant is precluded from using the anti-SLAPP statute to
strike the plaintiff’s action.”  (Id.
at p. 320.)  Here, defendants do not
concede, and plaintiffs’ limited evidence did not conclusively establish, that
the alleged speech was illegal as a matter of law.  
Moreover, Flatley noted, “In
reaching this conclusion, we emphasize that the question of whether the
defendant’s underlying conduct was illegal as a matter of law is preliminary,
and unrelated to the second prong question of whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing, and the showing required to establish
conduct illegal as a matter of law—either through defendant’s concession or by
uncontroverted and conclusive evidence—is not the same showing as the plaintiff’s
second prong showing of probability of prevailing.”  (Flatley, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p.
320.)  For the reasons discussed above, defendants
met their burden on the first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis.  Flatley expressly did not reach the
second step of the analysis.  It does not
support plaintiffs’ arguments on their probability of prevailing on the merits.
C. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th Causes of Action
For independent reasons, plaintiffs also show
no probability of prevailing on the third and fourth causes of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, the fifth cause of action for constructive fraud, or
the sixth cause of action for fraudulent concealment.  Breach of fiduciary duty and constructive
fraud require “a fiduciary
relationship.”  (Tindell v. Murphy
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249.)  For
fraudulent concealment, plaintiffs allege, “Defendants had a fiduciary duty to
disclose material facts to Plaintiffs.” 
(Comp., ¶ 135.)  Plaintiffs
neither allege sufficient facts nor present prima facie evidence of a fiduciary
relationship.  
Generally, the
relationship between a borrower and lender “is not fiduciary in nature.”  (Nymark v. Heart Fed. Savings & Loan
Assn. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089, 1093, fn. 1.)  The complaint (¶¶ 107, 117) relies on an
exception to the general rule: “[A] lender … owes a fiduciary duty to a
borrower when it excessively controls or dominates the borrower.”  (Pension Trust Fund for Operating
Engineers v. Federal Ins. Co. (9th Cir. 2002) 307 F.3d 944, 955, citing Credit
Managers Assn. v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 352, 359-361.)  
For the third
through fifth causes of action, plaintiffs are not the borrowers.  Like defendants, they also lent money to the
same borrower, non-party PCH.  The
complaint alleges defendants owed fiduciary duties to that borrower.  (Comp., ¶¶ 108, 118.)  Plaintiffs provide no authority permitting
them to sue defendants for breaching fiduciary duties (or for constructive
fraud arising from fiduciary duties) owed to someone else.        
For each of the third
through sixth causes of action, plaintiffs submitted no admissible evidence other
than exhibits 1 and 2 to the request for judicial notice.  Those exhibits provide no support for the
assertion that defendants excessively controlled or dominated the borrower or
otherwise “had a fiduciary duty to disclose material facts to Plaintiffs.”  (Comp., ¶ 135.)
Demurrer
Defendants Will
Abbott, Alexey Mikhaylov, Thomas Rini, 4E Capital LP, and Pharm Capital, LLC
also demur to plaintiffs’ complaint.  The
demurrer is moot because the court will grant defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion.   
Disposition
            Defendants Will Abbott, Alexey Mikhaylov, Thomas Rini, 4E Capital
LP, and Pharm Capital, LLC’s special motion to strike plaintiffs’ complaint is granted.  The court hereby strikes the entire
complaint as against defendants Will Abbott, Alexey Mikhaylov, Thomas Rini, 4E
Capital LP, and Pharm Capital, LLC without leave to amend.