  Case Number:  24VECV02187    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  W AMBER
KISSELL, ET AL. VS NBC UNIVERSAL, LLC, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR AN ORDER (1) REQUIRING PLAINTIFFS TO FILE AN UNDERTAKING AND (2)
STAYING THE ACTION PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 1030, ET SEQ. 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
3, 2025                                 Trial Date:       N/A
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV02187
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Universal Set
Services LLC and Octavio Fernandez
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs Amber Kissell and
Ronald Barriault
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs Amber Kissell and Ronald Barriault
filed a complaint against Defendants NBC Universal LLC and Octavio Hernandez
for negligence. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint.
This action is based on vehicle vs. vehicle collision. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
 
DISCUSSION

 
Defendants NBC Universal LLC and Octavio Hernandez move this court
for an order requiring Plaintiffs Amber Kissell and Ronald Barriault to post
security for Defendants’ current and projected to defend this lawsuit in the
amount of $182,798.00. Defendants request is based on the grounds Plaintiffs
are residents and citizens of Canada, there is a reasonable possibility that
Defendants will obtain judgment against Plaintiffs in this action, and the
estimated recoverable costs for defending against this action are approximately
$182,798.00. Defendants further request a stay of the current matter pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1030(e) until 10 days after the motion for
the undertaking is denied or, if granted, until 10 days after the required
undertaking has been filed and Defendants have been served with a copy of the
undertaking.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1030, “[w]hen the plaintiff
in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a foreign
corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by noticed motion
for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award
of costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action or special
proceeding. For the purposes of this section, ‘attorney’s fees’ means
reasonable attorney’s fees a party may be authorized to recover by a statute
apart from this section or by contract.” 

 
 
 
In order to prevail on a motion for undertaking under this code
section, the moving party must show “plaintiff resides out of the state or is a
foreign corporation and that there is a reasonable possibility that the moving
defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special proceeding[.]” (CCP §
1030(b).)  To fulfill these requirements,
a defendant does not need to show its success is certain or even likely, but is
only required to present evidence showing that success is reasonably possible.
(Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1430.)
 
As noted by Defendants, two requirements must be met to prevail on
a motion under Section 1030. First, Plaintiffs must reside out of state or be a
foreign corporation. Defendants claim it is undisputed that Plaintiffs are not
California residents as evidenced by Paragraph 1 of the operative complaint.
Plaintiffs do not dispute this contention. 
 
Next, Defendants must establish there is a “reasonable
possibility” that it eventually will obtain judgment in its favor. Defendants
argue Plaintiffs’ claim for damages is purely speculative and unsupported. Moreover,
as set forth in the declaration of Defendant Fernandez, Plaintiffs caused the
accident when they made an unsafe lane change into Defendant Fernandez’s lane
as Defendant approached the Hayvenhurst Ave exit. (See Fernandez Decl. ¶¶5, 6.)
Ultimately, this case becomes an issue of whose version of events the jury
adopts. As a result, there is a reasonable possibility that the jury adopts the
version presented by Defendants. 
 
In opposition[1],
Plaintiffs argue Defendants have failed to present any evidence that there is a
reasonable chance they will prevail. Specifically, Plaintiffs testify while
exiting the US 101 Freeway at the White Oak exit, a truck suddenly came up from
behind them on the left had side and suddenly turned to his right causing the
truck to hit the back driver’s side of the vehicle with heavy impact. (Kissell
Decl. ¶5.) This caused the vehicle to be pushed to the right, into the
guardrail. (Kissell Decl. ¶5, Barriault Decl. ¶5.) After the impact, Defendant
Fernandez ran to the vehicle, asked if they were okay and told them “I am
sorry, I did not see you. It was my fault.” (Kissell Decl. ¶6, Barriault Decl.
¶6.) Moreover, Plaintiffs contend this action involves a Dodge Truck vs. Mini
Cooper collision. The Dodge Truck was to the left of the Mini-Cooper.
Plaintiffs note Defendant Fernandez never states he turned his head to the
right or saw the Mini-Cooper in his side view mirror. As a result, this is
insufficient to meet the “reasonable possibility” standard. 
 
The court finds Defendants have met the standard of “reasonable
possibility”. As noted by Defendants, a defendant is not required to show there
is no possibility the plaintiff will prevail at the trial, but only that there
is a reasonable possibility that the defendant will win. (Baltayan, supra,
90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1432.)
 
The costs sought, however, are grossly inflated and not reasonably
likely to be awarded.  As defendant
knows, expert fees are not recoverable, nor are trial transcripts, except in
unusual circumstances not present here. 
The costs of letters rogatory also appears inflated.  The court, therefore, reduces the amount
sought by $120,000.  Plaintiffs are ordered
to post an undertaking in the amount of $60,000.  The case is stayed until such undertaking is
posted.   
 


