 Case Number:  24STCV21901    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendants’ Demurrer
- with Motion to Strike
 
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in
part. The motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Sidhal Equity, LLC,
filed this action against Woodland Equity, LLC (“Woodland”),
Woodland Hills Capital, LLC (“WH Capital”),
Sunrise Real Estate Group, LLC (“Sunrise”), Bruce Abrams, and doe defendants 1
to 20 (collectively “Defendants”),
alleging that Defendants refuses to provide an accounting to Plaintiff of
income, profits, or losses generated by 20501 Ventura Boulevard, Woodland
Hills, CA 91436 (“the Property”), which the parties own as tenants in common.
The causes of action are: (1) Breach of Contract – Tenants
in Common Agreement; (2) Breach of Contract – Property Management Agreement;
(3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Fraud; (5) Constructive Trust; (6)
Accounting; and (7) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Defendants filed a demurrer – with motion to strike. Plaintiff filed an
opposition. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of Daniel
A. Abrams’ licensing record with the Bar. Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is granted. 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
Further, the court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a). The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading
has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Id. § 436. The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id. §
437. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”);
Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to
amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under
any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment.”). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.
ANALYSIS
I. Demurrer
1. Alter Ego
As an initial matter, Defendants argue that WH Capital is
improperly named as a defendant, only Woodland was a party to the Tenant in
Common Agreement, and only Sunrise was a party to the Management Agreement. Opp.
at p. 5: 5-18. However, Defendants fail to address Plaintiff’s allegations that
the named Defendants were, at all relevant times, each other’s alter egos. 
“The ‘single enterprise,’ or alter ego, doctrine is an
equitable doctrine: ‘A corporate identity may be disregarded—the “corporate
veil” pierced—where an abuse of the corporate privilege justifies holding the
equitable ownership of a corporation liable for the actions of the corporation.”
Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1341 (citation
omitted). “In California, two conditions must be met before the alter ego
doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.” Ibid. (citations omitted) (internal
quotation marks omitted). 
Corporation Code section 17703.04, subdivision (b) provides
in relevant part, “A member of a limited liability company shall be subject to
liability under the common law governing alter ego liability ….” “In
appropriate circumstances, traditional veil piercing permits a party to pierce
the corporate or limited liability company (LLC) veil ‘so that an individual
shareholder [or LLC member] may be held personally liable for claims against
the corporation [or LLC].’” Blizzard Energy, Inc. v. Schaefers (2021)
71 Cal.App.5th 832, 840 (Blizzard) (quoting Postal Instant
Press, Inc. v. Kaswa Corp. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1513
(alteration in original).
In applying the doctrine, courts consider the following
factors: (1) the commingling of funds and assets of the two entities, (2)
identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same offices and
employees, (3) disregard of corporate formalities, (4) identical directors and
officers, and (5) use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the
other. Cam-Carson, LLC v. Carson Reclamation Authority (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 535, 549-550. Courts look to the totality of the circumstances, and
no one factor is dispositive. Whether a party is liable under an alter ego
theory is normally a question of fact. Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 799, 811.
Plaintiff alleges that Abrams is the controlling member of
Woodland, WH Capital, and Sunrise. Compl. at ¶ 5. Additionally, Plaintiff
alleges Woodland, WH Capital, and Sunrise were the alter egos of Abrams, that a
unity of interest and ownership between the entities and Abrams existed, and
that he completely controlled the entities. Id. at ¶ 6. Plaintiff
further alleges that Abrams controlled the business affairs of the entities,
commingled their funds and assets, diverted entity funds to his personal use,
disregarded legal formalities, inadequately capitalized the entities, and used
the entities as mere shells, instrumentalities, or conduits for himself and his
businesses. Id. at ¶ 7. 
These allegations are sufficient to plead alter ego as a
theory of liability for the Defendants named for each cause of action. Defendants
do not address the alter ego issue in their reply; instead, they argue that the
substantive causes of action are deficient. Reply at p. 8: 9-10. 
2. Breach of Contract – Tenants in Common Agreement
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s first breach of contract
claim fails to state a cause of action.
The elements of breach of contract are “‘(1) the contract,
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.’” Kumaraperu v. Feldsted
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 60, 70 (quoting Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388). 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached the Tenants in
Common Agreement (“TIC Agreement”) by failing to disclose all relevant
information relating to the re-financing of the Property to enable Plaintiff to
make an informed decision, failing to disclose the amount of loan proceeds,
diverting the loan proceeds for their own benefit, failing to disclose the
diversion, falsifying the use and distribution of loan funds, and failing to distribute
the loans funds under the TIC Agreement. Compl. at ¶ 29. 
The TIC Agreement includes a distribution schedule for loan
or sales proceeds. Compl., Ex. A ¶ 7.2. The proceeds must be used in the
following order: (1) to pay the Loan in full and any other losses encumbering
title to the property; (2) to pay any unsecured loans made to the Tenants concerning
the Property; (3) to pay outstanding expenses related to the financing or sale;
(4) outstanding fees and costs under the Property Management Agreement; and (5)
paid to each Tenant per their respective interest. Ibid. 
In their demurrer, Defendants concede that failure to
distribute the loan proceeds could conceivably give rise to a cause of action
for breach of the TIC Agreement, but argues Plaintiff fails to explain how
Defendants violated paragraph 7.2. Mot. at p. 9:19-28. At the pleading stage,
it is sufficient for Plaintiff to allege that Defendants failed to distribute
the loan according to the TIC Agreement and diverted the loan proceeds for
their benefit. Plaintiff need not allege in the Complaint at which phase of the
distribution schedule the diversion occurred. 
Because Plaintiff has alleged the existence of a contract
with Defendants, at least one provision of the contract Defendants breached,
and damages in an amount to be proven at trial, it has adequately pleaded a
breach of contract claim. Accordingly, the demurrer as to the first cause of
action is overruled. 
3. Breach of Contract – Property Management Agreement
Plaintiff additionally alleges Defendants breached the Property
Management Agreement (“PMA”), which required Defendants to provide periodically
a statement of receipt and disbursements, and to pay to the owner income
generated from the property except a reasonable balance for working capital. Compl.
at ¶ 33, Ex B. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached the PMA by, among
other things, failing to provide periodic statements of receipts and
disbursements to Plaintiff as required by the PMA. Compl. at ¶ 34. Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendants took compensation above the compensation agreed
to in the PMA without Plaintiff’s consent. Compl. at ¶ 36
Defendants suggest these allegations are factually false and
argue that the PMA allegations authorized them to collect additional
compensation. Opp. at p. 10:25. However, for the purposes of this motion, the
Court accepts all factual allegations as true. The provision allowing for
additional compensation states in relevant part, “Agent shall be entitled to
additional compensation based upon the agreement between the parties at the
time such work is performed as applicable.” Compl. at ¶ 35, Ex. B ¶ 7. Plaintiff
specifically alleges that it did not consent to the increased compensation. Compl.
at ¶ 36. Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled.
4. Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to state a claim for
breach of fiduciary duty because there is no fiduciary duty owed between cotenants.
Opp. at p. 11:7-14. Defendants cite no authority for this proposition.
Moreover, in Wilson v. S.L. Rey, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 234 (Wilson),
the Court expressly held “[c]otenants stand in fiduciary relationship to each
other.” Wilson, supra, 17 Cal.App.4th at p. 242. Defendants assert,
without providing argument or authority, that this only applies where a cotenant
acquires an interest adverse to another cotenant. Opp. at p. 11:11. Defendants
additionally argue that the disclaimer of partnership in the TIC Agreement
precludes a finding of a fiduciary relationship between the cotenants. However,
Wilson makes clear that no partnership is required, only that the
tenants in common receive their interests at the same time. Wilson, supra, 17
Cal.App.4th at p. 243. Here, as alleged in the Complaint, that requirement is
met. Compl. at ¶ 11. 
5. Fraud
Defendants argue that the fraud claim repackages the breach
of fiduciary duty claim and fails to meet the heightened pleading standard. 
“The elements of fraud are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’);
(c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and
(e) resulting damage.” Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th
170, 184 (Charnay) (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks
omitted). 
“Fraud must be specifically pleaded; a general pleading of
the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient. Every element of the cause of
action must be alleged in full, factually and specifically.” Tindell v.
Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249.
“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1)
concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud
the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if
he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff
sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606. 
A complaint alleging fraudulent concealment must allege “(1)
the content of the omitted facts, (2) the defendant’s awareness of
the materiality of those facts, (3) the inaccessibility of the facts to
the plaintiff, (4) the general point at which the omitted facts
should or could have been revealed, and (5) justifiable and actual reliance,
either through action or forbearance, based on the defendant’s omission.” Rattagan
v. Uber Technologies, Inc., (2024) 17 Cal. 5th 1, 43-44 (Rattagan). 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “fraudulently
concealed information relating to the financial affairs of the TIC.”  Compl. at ¶ 50. However, Plaintiff fails to
allege any justifiable reliance (actions or omissions) taken based on
Defendants fraudulent concealment. Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
6. Constructive Trust
“A constructive trust is an equitable remedy to compel a
person who has property to which he is not justly entitled to transfer it to
the person entitled thereto. Weiss v. Marcus (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 590,
600 (Weiss). The principal constructive trust situations are set forth
in two statutes. Civil Code section 2223 provides, “One who wrongfully detains
a thing is an involuntary trustee thereof, for the benefit of the owner.” Civil
Code section 2224 provides: “One who gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake,
undue influence, the violation of a trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he
has some other and better right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the thing
gained, for the benefit of the person who would otherwise have had it.” “The
cause of action is not based on the establishment of a trust, but consists of
the fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, or other act which entitles the plaintiff
to some relief. That relief, in a proper case, may be to make the defendant a
constructive trustee with a duty to transfer to the plaintiff.” Weiss,
supra, 51 Cal.App.3d at p. 600 (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks
omitted).
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants improperly utilized
TIC assets, property, and/or loan proceeds to the detriment of plaintiff. Compl.
at ¶ 58. As discussed above, the parties had a fiduciary responsibility to one
another. Therefore, Plaintiff has properly alleged constructive trust as a
remedy for the alleged breach of fiduciary duty. The demurrer is overruled as
to the fifth cause of action. 
7. Accounting
Defendants argue that there is no duty to account, because
the sum allegedly owed is ascertainable from the books and records maintained
by another party. Opp. at p. 11: 21-26. 
 “A cause of action
for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is
due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An action for
accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a
sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation. A plaintiff need
not state facts that are peculiarly within the knowledge of the opposing party.”
Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179 (citations
omitted). 
Here, Plaintiff has established a relationship with
Defendants as cotenants. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants diverted loan
proceeds obtained from re-financing the Property into a “slush fund” and
commingled those funds with accounts and funds unrelated to the Property
without Plaintiff’s consent. Plaintiff does not allege the right to recover a
sum certain, but instead seeks an accounting to ascertain the money it is due. 
Defendants misstate the law when they assert that an action
for accounting is not proper when the sum may be ascertained from the records
of another party. The case on which they rely, Prakashpalan v. Engstrom,
Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105 (Prakashpalan)
says the opposite. “An accounting is an equitable proceeding which is
proper where there is an unliquidated and unascertained amount owing that
cannot be determined without an examination of the debits and credits on the
books to determine what is due and owing.” Prakashpalan, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1136-1137. Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is overruled. 
8. Declaratory Relief
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of
action for declaratory relief where it asserts fully accrued causes of action
on the same facts. Opp. at p. 12:6-11. 
“Declaratory relief operates prospectively, serving to set
controversies at rest. If there is a controversy that calls for a declaration
of rights, it is no objection that past wrongs are also to be redressed; but
there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.
Hence, where there is an accrued cause of action for an actual breach of
contract or other wrongful act, declaratory relief may be denied.” Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
357, 366 (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). However, “where
‘there is a reasonable expectation that the wrong [if any] will be repeated,’
the controversy does not present mere academic questions resulting from
mootness or other considerations and declaratory relief should not be denied. Southern
Counties Gas Co. v. Ventura Pipeline Constr., Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d
372, 381 (citation omitted). 
Here, Plaintiff seeks both to address past wrongs allegedly
inflicted by Defendants, as well as clarify their respective rights and
responsibilities as co-tenants. Therefore, while it is true that Plaintiff has
also alleged fully accrued causes of action, the ongoing relationship between
the parties creates an ongoing controversy that does not prevent a mere
academic question. Accordingly, the demurrer as to the seventh cause of action
is overruled. 
 
II. Motion to Strike
Defendants move to strike the following portions of the
complaint.
1. Paragraph 13, page 3, lines 22-25: “However, the TIC
Agreement was not negotiated between the Owners. It was prepared by Daniel A.
Abrams, a member of the bar, who at the time was a partner at the law firm of
Abrams, Tofer & Reghabi (Section 12.9 of the TIC Agreement), and the son of
Defendant ABRAMS, the principal of WOODLAND and SUNSET.”  2. Paragraph 14, page 26, line 4: “The TIC
Agreement is plagued with inconsistencies, and hopelessly vague as to certain
rights and obligations of the Owners. By way of example and not a limitation
(A) the TIC Agreement designates “Woodland Hills Equity, LLC, a California
limited liability company” as the ‘TIC Authorized Signatory,’ with seemingly
unlimited control over the affairs of the Owners and the Property1
and (B) Exhibit B to the TIC Agreement identifies ‘Woodland Hills Capital, LLC’
as one of the three Owners of the Property, and holder of 45% undivided
interest in the Property.2” 
3. Paragraph 18, page 26, lines 19-22: “At the time of the
execution of TIC Agreement in 2007, SIDHAL’s managing member was Sid Kamrava,
who is since deceased. Immediately prior to Sid Kamrava’s passing, SIDHAL
became managed by Sid Kamrava’s widow, Haleh Kamrava (‘HOLLY’), who had minimal
experience and knowledge as a real estate owner, investor and/or operator.’’ 4.
Paragraph 29, page 6, line 28 to page 7, line 7: “Based on information and
belief, ABRAMS, acting on behalf of himself and/or WOODLAND, breached the TIC
Agreement, by among other things, failing to disclose all relevant information
relating to the re-financing of the Property to enable SIDHAL to make informed
material decisions, failed to disclose the amount of loan proceeds which would
be obtained for the TIC through the re-financing of the Property, diverted the
loan proceeds for their own benefit, failed to disclose that Defendants had
diverted the loan proceeds for their own benefit, falsified the use and
distribution of the loan proceeds ....” 
5. Paragraph 36, page 8, lines 10 to 14: “Based on
information and belief, SUNRISE, acting on its own, and/or at the direction of
ABRAMS, breached the Property Management Agreement by taking compensation in
excess of the compensation agreed upon in the Property Management Agreement,
without SIDHAL’s consent.” 
6. Paragraph 41, page 9, lines 1-7 (bolded and italicized
portions): “Pursuant to the TIC Agreement, WOODLAND, acting through its
managing member ABRAMS, was the “TIC Authorized Signatory’ of the TIC and
essentially managed the TIC including all financials matters subject to
the approval of the Owners of material decisions in relations to (a) the hiring
of a Property Manager, (b) the financing or refinancing of the Property, and
the (c) sale of the Property. As such, in that capacity, WOODLAND and ABRAMS, owed
to Plaintiff and the other Owners, a duty of loyalty and/or a duty of care in
the conduct of managing the TIC.” 
7. Paragraph 42, page 9, lines 8-12: “Based on information
and belief, Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by receiving
improper benefits from the Property and/or assets belonging to the Owners, by
re-financing the Property and diverting the proceeds, by commingling loan
proceeds with accounts and funds unrelated to the Property, and by using loan
proceeds belonging to the Owners as a ‘slush fund’, without Plaintiff’s
consent, and without knowledge.” 
8. Paragraph 43, page 9, lines 13-16: “In addition, based on
information and belief, Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by failing,
refusing and neglecting to provide all relevant information regarding the
financial and accounting aspects of the TIC, and have only provided certain limited
information, despite requests therefore, in an apparent attempt to conceal
their acts and omissions.”
9. Paragraph 44, page 9, lines 17-20: “Moreover, based on
information and belief, ABRAMS and/or someone else on behalf of WOODLAND,
forged the signature of Haleh Kamrava, on behalf of Plaintiff, on certain
financial documents, in relation to a loan, without Plaintiff’s knowledge or
consent in order to conceal material information relating to the Property,
Owners and the Loan proceeds.”
10. Paragraph 45, page 9, lines 21-23 (bolded and italicized
portions): “Based on information and belief, ABRAMS and WOODLAND have also breached
their fiduciary duties by taking other actions to benefit themselves,
to the detriment of the TIC and the Owners, as proven at trial.” 
11. Paragraph 46, page 9, lines 24-25 (bolded and italicized
portions): Defendants’ actions and omissions constitute a breach of
fiduciary duties including but not limited to the duty of loyalty and duty of
care. By taking the actions alleged, Defendants breached their duties
to the Owners in the TIC by failing to account to the TIC properly, by failing
to properly utilize and distribute assets and loan proceeds, and by
failing to hold as a trustee for the TIC, the assets, property, profit
or benefits which should have been provided to the Owners and/or utilized
solely for the benefit of the Owners.” 
12. Paragraph 47, page 10, lines 2-4: “As a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ violation of their fiduciary duties as set
forth herein, Plaintiff has been damaged an amount to be proven at trial, but
in excess of the jurisdictional limits of this Court.”
13. Paragraph 49, page 10, lines 9-15: “By virtue of the TIC
Agreement, the relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants was
fiduciary in nature. Defendants thereby owed Plaintiff the fiduciary duties of
loyalty and care, and the obligation to conduct the TIC business in good faith
and fair dealing. Because Plaintiff’s confidence in Defendants’
integrity caused Plaintiff to entrust Defendants with the authority to act for
the TIC, a confidential relationship existed at all times herein mentioned
between Plaintiff and Defendants and Plaintiff relied on the relationship and
the representations made by ABRAMS on behalf of WOODLAND.” 
14. Paragraph 50, page 10, lines 16-20 (bolded and italicized
portions): Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to
Plaintiff, violated the relationship of trust and confidence, and
fraudulent concealed information relating to the financial affairs of the TIC, including
but not limited to forging Plaintiff’s signature on financial documents without
Plaintiff’s knowledge and consent, diverting and misapplying TIC
property and assets, and commingling TIC property and assets with other
accounts, all to the detriment of Plaintiff.” 
15. Paragraph 51, page 10, lines 21-23: “Plaintiff had
reasonably relied on defendants in view of their relationship as Owners under
the TIC Agreement and was ignorant of the actions and fraudulent concealment by
the Defendants.” 
16. All references to Woodland Hills Capital, LLC, and the
term “WH CAPITAL.” 
 
After reviewing the Complaint, Motion, Opposition, and Reply,
the Court rules as follows:
A. Numbers 1-5
1. Granted. The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that
Daniel A. Abrams was not a member of the California bar in 2007 when the TIC
Agreement was executed. Plaintiff may amend the Complaint to identify Alan
Abrams as the attorney who drafted the TIC Agreement. Opp. at p. 3:22-23. 
2. Denied. Defendants concede there is a typo and does not
explain why the allegation is irrelevant, false, or improper. Mot. at p.
9:23-28. 
3. Denied. These are relevant background facts.
4. Denied. Whether the TIC Agreement required Defendants to
disclose material information is a question of contractual interpretation that
turns on the facts surrounding the parties' intent when they entered into the
agreement. This is beyond the scope of a motion to strike. 
5. Denied. Defendants argue that the PMA “allocates full
authority for managing the Property… nowhere does Exhibit ‘2’ to the Complaint
even arguably give rise to any requirement to obtain Plaintiff’s ‘consent’ to
anything.” Mot. at p. 10:21-22.  However,
as noted above, the provision allowing for additional compensation requires the
agreement between the parties. Compl. at ¶ 35, Ex. B ¶ 7.
Numbers 6 - 8 and 10 - 14 (Fiduciary Responsibility) 
Denied. Nos. 6-8, and 10-14 concern Plaintiff’s allegation
that Defendants owed Plaintiff a fiduciary duty. As explained above. Such a
duty is created between cotenants who acquire an interest in real property at
the same time. Wilson, supra, 17 Cal.App.4th at p. 242. Defendants again
argue that Wilson creates an exception to a general rule of no cotenant
fiduciary relationship that applies only where a cotenant obtains an interest
in property or outstanding debt against the property to the detriment of a
cotenant. Defendants cite Bardis v. Oates (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1 (Bardis)
in support of this proposition, but quote from the background section’s
description of the parties’ partnership history. Bardis, supra, 119
Cal.App.4th at p. 7 (“Unlike the Cypress partnership agreement, the 1997 TIC
agreement disclaimed ‘any intention to create a partnership or joint venture.’”)
However, in a footnote to its discussion, the noted that “[t]he markups charged
to the TIC after the demise of the Cypress partnership constituted gains
equally as illicit as those skimmed from the partnership. As the jury was
correctly instructed, [the defendant] owed the same fiduciary duties to his
cotenants as he did to his partners.” Id. at p.13, fn. 5. Accordingly,
the motion to strike is denied as to items 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.
Numbers 9 and 14 (Power of Attorney)
Denied. Numbers 9 and 14 concern the scope of the power of
attorney provision. Defendants argue that the power of attorney provision
entitled them to sign for Haleh Kamrava on behalf of Plaintiff, without
Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent. However, the scope of the power of attorney
provision is disputed and as with the earlier contract issues, goes beyond the
scope of a motion to strike. Accordingly, the motion to strike is denied as to
these issues. 
Numbers 15 and 16
15. Denied. Defendants provide no argument.
16. Denied. As explained above, Plaintiff has adequately
pleaded an alter ego theory of liability. Plaintiff included WH Capital as a
defendant to all causes of action brought against Woodland. Compl. at p. 4 fn.
2. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action and overruled as to all
others. The motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part. Motion to
strike no. 1 is granted with leave to amend. Motion to strike nos. 2-16 are
denied. Plaintiff has twenty days leave to amend. 
 



 