  Case Number:  22STCV17187    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendant's Motion
to Quash Subpoena to Federal Aviation Administration
 
Defendant's Motion
to Quash Subpoena to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is granted. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Kristen M Wallis,
as personal representative of the Estate of Tyson Wallis, filed this wrongful
death action against Robinson Helicopter
Company, Inc. (“Defendant”), alleging that Tyson died in a Robinson R44 helicopter
when it crashed on March 25, 2022.
Plaintiffs Basia Trout and Roger Trout (“Trout”) filed a separate
complaint in case number 22TRCV00428, against Defendant alleging causes of
action for wrongful death of Lora Trout arising out of the same March 25, 2022,
helicopter accident. 
The causes of action in both complaints are: (1) Strict
Product Liability; and (2) Negligence.
On August 15, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to
consolidate both cases. 
Defendant filed a motion to quash Trout’s subpoena to the FAA.
Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule
upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with subpoenas.” Lee
v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Assn. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575,
582-83. A motion to quash a subpoena or deposition notice is used to strike,
modify, or impose conditions on a subpoena or notice that is procedurally or
substantively defective. Such a motion may be made by any party to the action.
Code Civ. Proc., 1987.1, subd. (b)(1).
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant requests the Court quash the deposition subpoena
for the production of business records issued by Trout, to the FAA. The subpoena
includes eight requests for production of documents. Declaration of Candice S.
Nam, Ex. F. 
Defendant argues that under California and federal law, a
state court may not subpoena a federal agency where its regulations prohibit
compliance with such a subpoena. 
In United States ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen (1951) 340
U.S. 462, the United States Supreme Court considered whether the federal
government could rely on its own regulations to refuse to comply with a
subpoena or request for information. Touhy, supra, 340 U.S. at p. 463. The
Supreme Court concluded that such regulations are valid and enforceable. Id.
at p. 468. 
The Court of Appeal applied Touhy in Civiletti v.
Municipal Court (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 105 (Civiletti), where it held
“an attempt to compel compliance with [the] subpoena by the Attorney General
founders like the Titanic on the hard rock of sovereign immunity.” Civiletti,
supra, 116 Cal.App.3d at p. 109.
In Elko County Grand Jury v. Siminoe (In re Elko County
Grand Jury) (9th Cir. 1997) 109 F.3d 554, 556 (Elko), the Ninth
Circuit held that the Touhy doctrine prevented state courts from
subpoenaing a Forest Service employee, where “the relevant Department of
Agriculture regulations essentially bar a USDA official from appearing in ‘a
judicial or administrative proceeding unless authorized in accordance with this
subpart’” (quoting 7 C.F.R. § 1.212.) 
Here, the relevant Department of Transportation (DOT)
regulation similarly provides that “No employee of the Department may provide
testimony or produce any material contained in the files of the Department, or
disclose any information relating to, or based upon, material contained in the
files of the Department, or disclose any information or produce any material
acquired as part of the performance of that employee’s official duties or
because of that employee’s official status unless authorized in accordance with
this part, or by other applicable law.” 46. C.F.R. § 9.5. DOT regulations
further provide that “[I]n a legal proceeding between private litigants, a
party who wishes to obtain records from the Department shall submit to agency
counsel a request for the records.” 46. C.F.R. § 9.13. 
There is no evidence that Plaintiffs have complied with
these DOT regulations in requesting the desired FAA documents. Additionally,
the Court notes that Plaintiffs failed to file an opposition. “A failure to
oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.”
California Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c). Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
quash the subpoena of FAA business records is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant's motion to quash is granted.