 Case Number:  24CHCV02627    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  F51  JANUARY 21, 2025    DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 24CHCV02627    Demurrer with Motion to  Strike Filed: 9/23/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant State Farm General Insurance  Company (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Hayk Khachatryan; and Mary Sultanyan (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to the second and third causes of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint. Defendant  also seeks an order striking Plaintiffs’ references to punitive damages from  the complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled against  Plaintiffs’ third cause of action and sustained against Plaintiff’s second  cause of action with 30 days leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied.   BACKGROUND    This is an insurance action in  which Plaintiffs, the insured, allege that on 9/22/22 and 6/13/23, their home  was burglarized. (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 13.) Plaintiffs allege that it submitted two  insurance claims for losses incurred in connection with these incidents to  Defendant, who issued their homeowners insurance policy, but Defendant  unreasonably denied Plaintiffs compensation for their covered losses. (Id. at  11–22.)   On 7/18/24, Plaintiffs filed their  complaint, alleging against Defendant the following causes of action: (1)  Breach of Contract; (2) Tortious Breach of Insurance Contract; and (3) Breach  of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.   On 9/23/24, Defendant filed and  served the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 12/30/24 and 12/31/24,  Plaintiffs filed their oppositions thereto. On 1/14/25, Defendant filed its  reply. // // // DEMURRER   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Defendant¿demurs  to Plaintiffs’ second and third causes of action on the bases that the complaint  fails¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿those causes of action.   A.     Meet-and-Confer    Defendant’s counsel declares that on an unspecified date, she  emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer letter discussing the issues  raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike, and followed up with a  telephone call, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl. of Christy  Gargalis ¶ 2.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the  preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.      Tortious Breach of Insurance Contract   Plaintiffs’  second cause of action alleges against Defendant a tortious breach of the  insurance contract. As a preliminary matter, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’  second and third causes of action are duplicative of one another, and that “Plaintiffs  cannot allege two separate identical causes of action for bad faith simply by  giving them different titles.” (Dem. 4:11–12.) Furthermore, as Defendant  observes, Plaintiffs do not address this issue in their opposition, therefore “Plaintiffs  ignore the fact that they alleged two identical causes of action and do not  establish the identical claims are proper.” (Def.’s Reply 2:12–13.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Tortious Breach of Insurance  Contract. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiffs’ second cause of action  is sustained.   C.     Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and  Fair Dealing   Plaintiffs’ third cause of action  alleges against Defendant a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with the other  party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v. American  Nat’l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature  and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the underlying  contract and the parties’ legitimate expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.)  “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract …  and breach of a specific provision of the contract is not ... necessary to a  claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty  Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,  1244.)   In the  insurance context, “it is the obligation, deemed to be imposed by the law,  under which the insurer must act fairly and in good faith in discharging its  contractual responsibilities. Where in so doing, it fails to deal fairly and in  good faith with its insured by refusing, without proper cause, to compensate  its insured for a loss covered by the policy, such conduct may give rise  to a cause of action in tort for breach of an implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing.” (Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 574  [emphasis added].)   Here,  Defendant argues that “aside from a dispute as to benefits, Plaintiffs do not  allege facts to show State Farm’s conduct was unreasonable. Plaintiffs do not allege  State Farm ignored evidence, failed to question witnesses or otherwise engaged  in unreasonable conduct. Plaintiffs simply allege a dispute as to coverage.” (Dem.  6:23–26.) Defendant further argues that “Plaintiffs do not allege any facts to  show State Farm engaged in unreasonable conduct but merely relies on conclusory  allegations. As such, Plaintiffs’ claim for bad faith fails.” (Id. at 7:10–11.)   In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently alleged that “State  Farm made zero effort themselves to retrieve the Police Report, despite having  the report number and other requisite information. They then unreasonably  denied Plaintiffs claim and did not allow the EUO to move forward despite  Plaintiff advising they were willing and able.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:15–18, citing  Compl. ¶¶ 53, 60.) Plaintiffs contend that “it is highly unreasonable for State  Farm to not only deny the claim but deny it based on the fact that they did not  conduct an EUO in which they refused to reschedule.” (Id. at 7:20–22.)   Defendant  argues in reply that “here, Plaintiffs simply allege State Farm investigated  the claim and do not allege facts to show State Farm’s conduct was  unreasonable. Plaintiffs do not identify evidence State Farm ignored.  Plaintiffs argue State Farm could obtain the police report but ignore the fact  that Plaintiffs have a duty to cooperate and assist in an investigation.” (Def.’s  Reply 3:2–5.)   The Court  finds that here, at the pleading stage, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged  that Defendant breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by  unreasonably refusing to schedule an Examination Under Oath and denying  Plaintiffs’ claims, based on Plaintiffs’ inability to obtain police statements  and cell phone statements, despite Plaintiffs’ best efforts to do so. (Compl.  ¶¶ 16–21.) Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiffs’ third cause of action  is overruled.   MOTION TO STRIKE   The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.) Here, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ references  to punitive damages from the complaint.     A.     Punitive  Damages   Punitive damages may be recovered in non-contract actions  upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and convincing  evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct  intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a  willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Id.  at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191  Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person  to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a  material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,  rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   An insurance carrier may be liable for punitive damages if  it is found to have acted with malice, fraud, or oppression in failing to deal  fairly and in good faith with its insured. (Neal v. Farmers Ins. Exchange  (1978) 21 Cal.3d 910, 922–923.) Punitive damages must be supported by factual  allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are  insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud  or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz  Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   Here, as  the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair  Dealing, it likewise finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to  support a prayer for punitive damages relating thereto. Accordingly, the motion  to strike is denied.   LEAVE TO AMEND   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).    Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiffs’  original complaint, and that Plaintiffs have requested leave to amend should  the Court sustain the instant demurrer or grant the motion to strike. (Pls.’  Opp. 8:11–13.) Therefore, under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to  amend, Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave to amend the complaint to cure the  defects set forth above, particularly that the second and third causes of  action are duplicative of one another.   CONCLUSION               The demurrer is overruled against  Plaintiffs’ third cause of action and sustained against Plaintiff’s second  cause of action with 30 days leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied.