  Case Number:  23STCV15790    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SANDRA
  GREENE 
  
         vs.
 
FARMERS
  INSURANCE EXCHANGE   
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15790 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s motion to have her Requests for Admission deemed
admitted is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to her Requests for
Production is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to her Special and Form
Interrogatories is DENIED. 
 
The Court declines to award sanctions at this time.  
 
            On 7/6/2023, Plaintiff Sandra Greene
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Farmers Insurance Exchange (Defendant),
alleging: (1) breach of implied obligation of good faith and fair dealing; (2)
breach of contract. 
 
            On 3/18/2024, Plaintiff moved to
compel responses to her Requests for Admission (RFAs), Requests for Production
(RFPs), and Special and Form Interrogatories (Set One). Plaintiff seeks
monetary sanctions in connection with these motions. 
 
Discussion

 
            On 11/17/2023, Plaintiff served
Defendant with an initial set of written discovery requests, including RFPs, RFAs,
Form Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories. After receiving extensions
of time to respond, Defendant served objection-only responses to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests on February 7, 2024.
 
            After meet and confer, Defendant
then filed substantive, verified responses on 4/5/2024. 
 
            Accordingly, the substance of this
motion is moot. 
 
            After review, the Court finds that
sanctions are not warranted. This is because Defendant did, in fact, file
responses to discovery on 2/7/2024. While those responses were objection-only,
the proper motion to file if Plaintiff believed the responses to be deficient would
have been a motion to compel further responses. This Court requires that an IDC
be conducted before such a motion is heard on the merits. As such, this motion
practice could have been avoided if they had been properly filed as motions to
compel further. The fact that Defendant provided additional responses after
Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter only further reinforces the fact that these
discovery issues could have been resolved informally without the need for
motion practice.
 
            As a final note, the Court disagrees
with Plaintiff’s contention that no separate statement was required because Defendant’s
responses were unverified and those were not considered responses, relying on Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.  As noted by Defendant, the Appleton case
concerned unverified factual responses from the responding party. The Appleton
court found that “[u]nsworn responses are tantamount to no responses at all.” (Id.
at p. 636.) Here, in contrast to the responding party in Appleton,
Defendant did not serve unverified factual responses. Defendant served
objection only responses. Objection only responses “ ‘are legal conclusions
interposed by counsel, not factual assertions by a party…” As such, there is no
reason to require a party to verify an objection. (Food 4 Less Supermarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 657. (…[t]here is
absolutely no reason to require a party to verify an objection. It is
sufficient to have the attorney sign the objection(s).”)
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motions to compel are DENIED. The Court declines to award sanctions at this
time.  
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
April    , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 