 Case Number:  24AHCV00282    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JAZMASA LANDRUM, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   STAGE LINES, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24AHCV00282
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   25, 2024




 


)


 



 
          Plaintiff
Jazmasa Landrum (“Plaintiff”) seeks a default judgment against defendants
American Stage Lines, Inc. (“American”) and Danny Cozine (“Cozine”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) in the amount of $162,907.98, consisting of
$31,908.18 in special damages, $130,000 in general damages, and $999.80 in
costs. This action arises from a bus vs. auto collision. 
          Plaintiff describes
the pain and discomfort from her personal injuries in her declaration. (Landrum
Decl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff describes her difficulties falling asleep and staying
asleep for the first two months after the accident due to pain and discomfort,
but not the manner which any pain or discomfort interfered with her work and
daily activities (and for how long). (Id.) Plaintiff also generally
identifies “neck pain, which [she] [deals] with on a weekly basis,” as a
continuing problem, but does not describe the intensity of the pain, how she is
“dealing” with it, how it interferes with her daily life, or whether future
medical care will be required. (Id.) A copy of Benjamin Broukhim, M.D.’s
most recent medical report is dated October 11, 2023, over a year ago. (Landrum
Decl., Ex. 6.) 
          Accordingly,
the Court awards Plaintiff $75,000 in general damages. If this is acceptable to
Plaintiff, Plaintiff may submit a revised proposed judgment on Form JUD-100. If
Plaintiff believes she is entitled to a greater award, Plaintiff should submit
additional evidence in support of her claim. 
          The hearing
on Plaintiff’s default prove-up is CONTINUED to ____________ at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. A revised proposed judgment and/or any
other additional evidence must be filed no later than 5 court days before the
hearing. 
Dated this 25th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 