  Case Number:  23AHCV01863    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JESSICA AUSTIN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01863
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM
   INTERROGATORIES - EMPLOYMENT (SET ONE) AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
   DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October 25,
  2024




 
 
 
 


)
)
)
)


 



 
On June 13, 2024, defendant City of
Pasadena (“Defendant”) filed 4 motions for orders compelling plaintiff Jessica
Austin (“Plaintiff”) to serve further responses to Form Interrogatories –
Employment (Set One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), Requests
for Admission (Set One), and Form Interrogatories – General (Set One). The
latter two are scheduled to be heard on October 28, 2024, and November 18,
2024, respectively. 
          At this time,
the motions before the Court involve: (1) Form Interrogatories – Employment
(Set One) (“FROG”) Nos. 200.2-201.1, 201.3, 202.1-203.1, 205.1, 207.1-210.6,
212.1-214.1, 2015.1, 2015.2, 217.1, and (2) Requests for Production of
Documents (Set One) (“RFP”) Nos. 1 through 42. Because some of the issues
involved in both motions are substantially identical, the Court addresses these
global issues before proceeding to analyze each motion. 
          Global Procedural
Issues
          As an initial
matter, the Court addresses Plaintiff’s argument that these motions were
untimely filed. This argument is meritless because Plaintiff’s responses were
served on April 24, 2024, by mail. The 45-day period for Defendant to file a
motion to compel was therefore extended by five calendar days and this motion was
timely filed on June 13, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1013, subd. (a).) Defendant’s
motion was electronically served and deemed served on that day. (Id., §
1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(A).) 
          Second,
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant was precluded from “re-serving” previously
propounded discovery is unpersuasive. Defendant served its initial round of
discovery while Defendant was in default. Those discovery requests, therefore, did
not have any effect and Defendant was not obligated to pursue a motion to
compel further responses. Accordingly, Defendant is not “re-serving” its
discovery requests. 
          Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs
 
          Plaintiff
asserts the same objections to all of Defendant’s RFPs. The Court addresses
each in turn. 
First, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s discovery is invalid because of the previously-entered default. But
the discovery requests were served after the default was vacated by the Court.
Therefore, this objection is overruled. 
          Second,
Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s use of defined terms. Specifically, Plaintiff objected
to the terms “DOCUMENT” and “YOUR” (or similar terms) as compound. Plaintiff
also objected to the phrase “RELATING TO” as vague, ambiguous, overbroad, and
burdensome. These objections are overruled because Defendant has already
expressed that it is not looking for documents protected by the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine and, in any event, Plaintiff has not
provided a privilege log. The term “RELATING TO” is also not so vague as to
prevent Plaintiff from providing any substantive answer and Plaintiff makes no
showing of undue burden. 
          Third, and
most significantly, Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s RFPs on the grounds that
Defendant was required to file a Pitchess motion pursuant to Evidence
Code sections 1043 and 1045 (collectively referred to as the “Pitchess statutes”)
before seeking information from her personnel records. Plaintiff refers to the
definition of “personnel records” in Penal Code section 832.7(a), which
includes the personnel records as well as “information obtained from those
records.” In City of San Diego (1981) 136 Cal.App.3d 236, the Court of
Appeal held that the Pitchess statutes conferred protection on “peace or
custodial personnel records . . . or information from those records.” 
          Defendant
argues that requiring it to follow the Pitchess statutes in this civil
action would be absurd because Defendant is not seeking her personnel records
maintained by Plaintiff’s employing agency but information and records from
Plaintiff herself. Defendant argues that it is merely seeking Plaintiff’s
recollection of key events and basic information which “exist separate and
apart” from her personnel records and the fact that some information may also
be found in her personnel records is irrelevant. Defendant cites to City of
Eureka v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 755, 765 [material “generated
independently and in advance of an administrative investigation” not subject to
Pitchess protection.”])
          Both parties’
positions have merit. Insofar as Defendant’s RFPs encompass “personnel records
or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or
information from those records”, Plaintiff’s objections are SUSTAINED, and
Defendant’s motion is DENIED; those documents may only be obtained through the Pitchess
procedure. (Evid. Code, § 1043; Pen. Code, §§ 832.5, 832.8.) 
However, as the Second Appellate
District specified in Pasadena Police Officers Assn. v. Superior Court (2015)
240 Cal.App.4th 268 (Pasadena POA), “[i]nformation not obtained from
findings of an internal or administrative investigation of the officers, or the
privileged personnel records of any officer, is not shielded from disclosure.”
(Id. at p. 298.) Documents not protected by the Pitchess statutes
also include “material. . . derived primarily from non-confidential records not
intended to be part of the officers' personnel matters or to be used in
connection with officer advancement, appraisal or disciplinary proceedings” (Ibid.)
and documents “generated independently and in advance of [an] administrative
investigation.” (Id. at p. 291; see also City of Eureka v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 755, 765.) As Plaintiff’s action is predicated
on the manner in which internal investigations and administrative/disciplinary
proceedings were conducted, the Court recognizes that this may be a small
universe of documents. Nevertheless, to the extent that they exist, Plaintiff
must provide a further response and produce them. In this limited aspect,
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff is ordered to serve further
responses within 20 days. 
          Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to FROGs
First, the Court notes that Plaintiff
filed her opposition brief on September 11, 2024, even though the Court
previously set a filing deadline of September 10, 2024. However, the Court also
notes that Plaintiff asserts the same objections based on the Pitchess statutes
in response to Defendant’s FROGs and, given that the objections were
timely-asserted and the significant protection conferred by the Pitchess statutes,
the Court exercises its discretion to consider Plaintiff’s late filing. 
Second, the Court acknowledges that
Plaintiff asserted an objection base on the Pitchess statutes in
response to each of the FROGs at issue in this motion. Plaintiff also served some
further responses on August 7, 2024, which purportedly include information not
subject to the Pitchess statutes. Given the Court’s earlier discussion
of the Pitchess statutes in relation to Defendant’s RFPs, as well as
Defendant’s failure to identify how these supplied responses are defective, Defendant’s
motion is DENIED.
Sanctions
Plaintiff and Defendant both acted with
substantial justification in making and opposing this motion and neither party
was totally successful. Accordingly, the requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice. 
Dated
this 25th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 