 Case Number:  24STCV06387    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Application to Appear Pro Hac
Vice
 
Moving Party: Harry
Sandick (for Plaintiff)
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Application to Appear Pro Hac
Vice
 
Moving Party: Julie
Simeone (for Plaintiff)
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Application to Appear Pro Hac
Vice
 
Moving Party: Chirag
Patel (for Defendant)
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
Harry Sandick’s Application to Appear Pro Hac
Vice is GRANTED.
 
        Julie Simeone’s Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 
        Chirag Patel’s Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On March 14,
2024, Plaintiff Nanette Kinkade (“Plaintiff’) filed her Complaint against
Defendant Art Brand Studios, LLC (“Defendant”) for provisional remedies in aid
of arbitration, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.8. 
 
On April 22,
2024, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On April 25,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction. 
 
On April 3,
2024, Harry Sandick, Julie Simeone, and Chirag Patel filed their respective
Verified Applications to Appear Pro Hac Vice.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Counsel Applicants seek admission to appear
as counsel pro hac vice. Counsel Applicants Sandick and Simeone seek
admission to represent Plaintiff and to be associated with Counsel Neubauer;
Counsel Applicant Patel seeks admission to represent Defendant and to be
associated with Counsel Jaworksi. 
 
Counsel Applicants
Sandick and Simeone are members in good standing of the State of New York and
various federal courts; Counsel Applicant Patel is a member in good standing of
the State of Illinois and of various federal courts.
 
Counsel Applicant Sandick has not appeared in
the last two years in any cases before California state courts or federal
courts located in California. Counsel Applicants Simeone and Patel have both
appeared in two court cases in California in the last two years. 
 
Each Counsel Applicant has individually provided
proof that the $50.00 fee required to be admitted pro hac vice has been
paid to the State Bar of California and that the State Bar has been served with
the Application.
 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
 
        The Court GRANTS Harry
Sandick’s Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice.
 
        The Court GRANTS Julie
Simeone’s Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice.
 
        The Court GRANTS Chirag
Patel’s Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice. 
 