 Case Number:  22STCV38729    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEOBARDO
  SEGURA-MEZA and MIRIAN SANCHEZ, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AGOURA HILLS MARBLE AND GRANITE, INC.,
  et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38729
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT GUIDONI
  USA INC.’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
Date: May 7, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Specially
Appearing Guidoni USA Inc. (“Moving Party”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
as of May 3, 2024. 
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.

 
BACKGROUND
             On November 21, 2023, Plaintiffs Leobardo
Segura-Meza and Mirian Sanchez (“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Agoura Hills Marble and Granite,
Inc., et al. (“Defendants”) for: (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Liability – Warning
Defect; (3) Strict Liability – Design Defect; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; (5)
Breach of Implied Warranties; and (6) Loss of Consortium.
 
            Plaintiff alleges that defendants,
including Moving Party, fraudulently concealed from Plaintiff the toxic hazards
of their stone products. (Complaint, ¶¶ 80-84.) Plaintiff further alleges that
defendants, including Moving Party, supplied, imported, produced, manufactured,
and distributed inherently hazardous stone products, and delivered the same to
Plaintiff's employees negligently, and without adequate warning, and that said
products failed to perform as safety as an ordinary user would expect when used
in an intended or reasonably foreseeable manner and the risks outweighed the
benefits. (Complaint, ¶¶ 111-113, 128-144, 245-258.)
 
            On January 5, 2024, Moving Party
filed the instant Motion to Quash Service of Summons. On February 1, 2024,
Moving Party filed an Amended Notice of Motion. As of May 3, 2024, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Under California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 418.10, a defendant, on or before the last day of their time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion to quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction over them. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) A
court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of
process. (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
Compliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to
establish personal jurisdiction. (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) The filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper but only if it complies with
the statutory requirements regarding such proofs. (Id. at 144142.) When
a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff
has the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that
is the facts requisite to an effective service. (Coulston v. Cooper
(1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)
 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
            Specially Appearing Moving Party moves
for an order quashing service of summons and dismissing the action against it
for lack of personal jurisdiction. Moving Party argues that it has no
California contacts. 
 
            Here, Moving Party does not have
minimum contacts with California.  It was
incorporated in the State of Georgia and its primary place of business and its headquarters
are also in Georgia. (Still Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Moving Party’s only physical place
of business is in Georgia. (lbid.) Moreover, Moving Party is licensed to
do business only in the state of Georgia. (Still Decl., ¶ 7.) Moving Party does
not do business in the State of California, does not have employees in
California, and does not do any marketing in California. (Still Decl., ¶ 8.) Moving
Party does not have an agent for service of process in California. (Still
Decl., ¶ 9.) Moving Party does not own, possess or otherwise hold any real or
personal property in California. (Still Decl., ¶ 10.) None of the executive
officers of Moving Party own any property in California. (Still Decl., ¶ 11.) Moving
Party imports ornamental rocks, such as granite and quartz, from Latin America,
processes them at its factory in the State of Georgia for use in façade
coatings, internal and external floors, countertops, and other residential and
commercial products, and sells the products to distributors located in Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Tennessee, Texas, Wisconsin
and Utah. (Still Decl., ¶ 12.) Moving Party is not a distributor. (Ibid.)
            


 
General
Jurisdiction 
            General jurisdiction is established
only if a "defendant's contacts with the forum are wide ranging that they
take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for
jurisdiction." (Vons Companies, lnc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at
446; see also Secrest Machine Corp. v. Super. Ct. (1983) 33 Cal.3d 664,
669.) Those contacts must be "substantial, continuous, and
systematic." (F. HoffmanLaRoche, Ltd. v. Super. Ct. (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
            Here, Moving Party has not
purposefully directed any activity towards California, including that it: (1)
does not acquire any stone products from California; (2) does not market its
sales to California; (3) does not do installation or other work in California;
and (4) does not maintain any physical presence in California.
 
Specific
Jurisdiction 
            For specific jurisdiction to exist,
the cause of action must arise out of or relate to the nonresident defendant's
contacts with the state. (Pedus Bld. Services, Inc., supra,
96 Cal.App.4th at 164.) The mere placement of a product into the stream of
commerce, without more, is not an act purposefully directed toward a forum
state such that it establishes personal jurisdiction over the product
manufacturer. (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., supra, 480 U.S. at
112.) Even a defendant's awareness that the stream of commerce may, or will,
sweep the product into the forum state does not convert the mere act of placing
the product into the stream of commerce into an act purposefully directed
toward the forum state. (Ibid.) 
 
            Here, for the same reasons mentioned
above, there is no specific jurisdiction. Notably, Plaintiffs did not file an
opposition. 
            The Court finds that Plaintiffs have
not met their burden of proof that the Court has personal jurisdiction over
Moving Party. Plaintiffs have not proffered evidence to rebut Moving Party’s assertions.

 
            Therefore, Moving Party’s unopposed Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 7th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



