 Case Number:  23STCV20964    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



POORIA NAVID, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FIRST QUALITY BUILDS LLC; FARSHID SEYED
  HOSSENI aka SEYED FARSHID HOSSENI; ELHAM RIAHI MOGHADDAM; ELI TOUR LLC; and
  DOES 1-50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV25545
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO
  STRIKE
 
Date: May 7, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
First Quality Builds LLC (“FQB”), Farshid Seyed Hosseni (“Hosseni”), Elham
Riahi Moghaddam (Moghaddam”), and Eli Tour LLC (“Eli”) (sometimes collectively,
“Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Pooria Navid (“Navid”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff  Navid filed a Complaint against Defendants FQB;
Hosseni[1]; Moghaddam;
Eli; and DOES 1-50, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3)
Unfair Business Practices; (4) Trespass; (5) Intentional Misrepresentation; (6)
Unjust Enrichment; (7) Conversion / Embezzlement; (8) Violation of Business
& Professions Code Section 7031; (9) Violation of Penal Code Section 496; and
(10) Fraudulent Transfer.
 
            On March 21and March 22, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer and
Motion to Strike (the “Motion”), respectively. On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the Demurrer and the Motion.  No reply was filed.  
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The Court finds that the parties sufficiently
engaged in the meet and confer process. 
 
DISCUSSION
“The
primary function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may
prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿
 
“A¿demurrer¿tests
the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.)
“The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿¿ 
 
¿           A general demurrer may be brought
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section
430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
¿           Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
 
Demurrer to Complaint
            Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s entire Complaint on the following grounds: (1) it fails to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against Defendants; (2) it is
uncertain; and (3) no certificate was filed as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 411.35 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (h). 
 
Standing

Defendants
argue that the alleged contract entered into was between FQB and Plaintiff, so
Defendants Moghaddam and Eli are not proper parties thereto. Furthermore,
Defendants argue that despite naming Defendant Hosseni in the contract, on its
face, the license number provided in the contract belongs to FQB and not to Defendant
Hosseni as an individual. Thus, Defendants contend that Plaintiff lacks
standing against them because he fails to allege facts related to any contract
as to Defendants Moghaddam and Eli. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues he does have standing against Defendants Moghaddam
and Eli under alter ego liability. Plaintiff further argues the Complaint does
not allege that Defendants Moghaddam and Eli are parties to the contract at
issue. (Compl. ¶ 11.) In fact, Plaintiff contends Defendants Moghaddam and Eli
are named for a different reason in the Complaint.  
 
Here,
the Complaint alleges a contractual relationship between Plaintiff, Defendant
Hosseni and Defendant FQB. (Compl. ¶ 16, Ex. B.) The Contract attached to the
Complaint appears to name Defendant Hosseni as a party and includes his
signature as the “contractor” alongside the signature of Plaintiff. (Id.)
Furthermore, the Complaint alleges claims for trespass against Defendant
Moghaddam and alter ego liability of Defendant Eli. (Compl. ¶¶ 11, 21, 43-44,
Ex. E.)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff does have standing to bring this pending action against Defendants
Moghaddam and Eli.
 
Proper
Defendants
As
stated above, Defendants argue that the contract allegedly breached here is
between a viable Washington Limited Liability Company, i.e., FQB, so the
individual defendants, Hosseni and Moghaddam, and the corporation Eli Tour LLC
are improper defendants and should be dismissed. Furthermore, Defendants
contend it is clear the contract is between FQB and Plaintiff because the
contract was not signed by an individual, i.e., Defendants Hosseni and
Moghaddam. Defendants also contend there is no justification for an unjust
enrichment cause of action based on obtaining a loan with no terms because
Plaintiff accepted a check from Defendant FQB and attempted to cash it too
early. Likewise, Defendants assert the allegations with respect to the eighth
cause of action require certification with the Complaint. Similarly, Defendants
assert that Plaintiff fails to mention any permit/licenses acquired by him as
the homeowner to adhere to any existing laws with respect to the Califia
Project. In addition, Defendants assert that it is clearly alleged in the
Complaint that a “loan” was voluntarily given by Plaintiff to Defendant
Hosseni, so it cannot constitute a violation of Penal Code section 496 or a
claim for conversion. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the individual defendants are proper
defendants even if Defendant FQB was a viable entity. Furthermore, Plaintiff
contends the Complaint expressly states that Defendant FQB has been
administratively dissolved in the State of Washington. Moreover, Plaintiff
reiterates that Defendants provide no supporting legal authorities for any of
its positions such as a claim that since a check provided by Defendant FQB  was attached to the Complaint, that somehow
provides immunity to the other defendants. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that no
certification is needed per Code of Civil Procedure section 411.35 because this
case involves an unlicensed general contractor. Last, Plaintiff argues that Defendants
attempt to turn their Demurrer into an evidentiary hearing, which is improper. 
 
“In
every action, including a cross-complaint for damages or indemnity, arising out
of the professional negligence of a person holding a valid architect’s
certificate issued pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 5500) of
Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or of a person holding a valid
registration as a professional engineer issued pursuant to Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 6700) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions
Code, or a person holding a valid land surveyor’s license issued pursuant to
Chapter 15 (commencing with Section 8700) of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code on or before the date of service of the complaint or
cross-complaint on any defendant or cross-defendant, the attorney for the
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall file and serve the certificate specified
by subdivision (b).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 411.35, subd. (a).)
 
Here,
as discussed above, the contract attached to the Complaint identifies Defendant
Hosseni as a signatory to the contract. Furthermore, the Complaint does not
allege contractual claims against Defendants Moghaddam and Eli. Moreover, the
Complaint arises out of a contractual relationship between Plaintiff and an
unlicensed contractor, not an architect, professional engineer, or land
surveyor as required for certification under Code of Civil Procedure section
411.35. 
 
Therefore,
the Complaint properly pleads allegations against the demurring Defendants. 
 
Alter
Ego Liability 
Defendants
contend FQB was a separate legal entity distinct from the individuals
Defendants who created it and adequately capitalized. Moreover, Defendants
contend piercing the corporate veil cannot be done in a verified complaint
without evidence of (1) unity of interest and (2) alter ego liability. Last,
Defendants assert there are at least 14 different factors that need to be
considered before a plaintiff can pierce a corporate veil and it is improper to
do so in the instant case. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants cannot introduce evidence as to
Defendant FQB being a separate entity because it ignored the allegation in the
Complaint that Defendant FQB is not licensed to do business in the State of
California and has been administratively dissolved by the State of Washington.
Plaintiff further contends that Defendants’ argument that 14 different factors
need to be considered before he can pierce a corporate veil should be summarily
rejected as it is not supported by any reasoning or authority. Finally,
Plaintiff asserts California law allows for a plaintiff to include parties that
are not the offending entity as the offending entity’s alter egos in a
Complaint. 
 
Here,
Defendants provide no legal authority or factual reasoning to support their
contention that 14 different factors must be considered before a plaintiff can
pierce the corporate veil, thus this argument is unavailing. Also, the
Complaint sufficiently alleges the alter ego liability of the Defendants.
(Compl. ¶¶ 2-11.) Moreover, to the extent that Defendants attempt to contend
that Defendant FQB is still a viable entity, the Complaint sufficiently alleges
that Defendant FQB was dissolved and not licensed to do business in California
in 2023, i.e., at the time it entered into the contract with Plaintiff. (Compl.
¶ 51.) 
 
Therefore,
the Complaint sufficiently pleads allegations giving rise to alter ego
liability. 
 
Sufficiency
of the Complaint
Defendants
assert the complaint fails to state any cause of action because the allegations
of the identities of the contracting parties are inconsistent with the attached
exhibits to the Complaint. Specifically, Defendants assert Plaintiff alleged
that he is a party to the contract but review of the written contract, which is
attached, shows that Plaintiff is not the contracting party with Defendants. Furthermore,
Defendants contend assuming a contract between Plaintiff and FQB was entered
into for the purpose of building a Gazebo/BBQ area based on the allegations,
then Plaintiff’s trespass claim fails because Plaintiff’s allegations state he
contracted with FQB to construct, therefore consented and allowed access to his
property. Defendants also argue Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for
fraudulent transfer or intentional misrepresentation because they must be pled
with specificity. In fact, Defendants contend because the alleged contract
attached to the Complaint is not between Plaintiff and the individual
defendants, these claims fail as the named defendants are improper parties to
the action.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants fail to provide any authorities for
their argument other than some general authorities that do not support their
argument. Furthermore, Plaintiff reiterates he never took the position that all
of the defendants are parties to the contract, only that Defendants FQB and
Hosseni are parties because the contract expressly lists them both as parties
in the introductory paragraph. Lastly, Plaintiff argues he pled the fifth and
tenth causes of action with specificity. 
 
Here,
Defendants appear to take the position that all of the causes of action
asserted against them in Plaintiff’s Complaint fail because the identities of
the contracting parties are inconsistent with the attached exhibits. As
discussed above, the Complaint properly identifies Defendants FQB and Hosseni
are parties to the contract for building the Gazebo/BBQ area. The Complaint
also sufficiently alleges Plaintiff fully performed under the contract;
Defendants FQB and Hosseni breached the contract; and Defendants FQB and
Hosseni’s breach were the direct and proximate cause of damages suffered by
Plaintiff. (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800 [breach of contract elements].) Furthermore,
the Complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendants FQB and Hosseni owed
Plaintiff a duty of care in completing the project, breached that duty by among
other things failing to supervise workers, and Defendants FQB and Hosseni
breach were the direct and proximate cause of damages suffered by Plaintiff. (Lueras
c. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62 [negligence
elements].) 
Moreover,
the Complaint sufficiently alleges Defendants deceptively led Plaintiff to
believe they were licensed in the State of California, received payment for the
project from Plaintiff, and abandoned the project they were contracted to
complete for Plaintiff. (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 954, 970 [unfair business practices elements].) Additionally, the
Complaint sufficiently alleges Plaintiff owns the subject property; Defendants
intentionally entered the property under false pretenses, which would negate
Plaintiff’s purported consent; the property was damages; and Defendants conduct
were a substantial factor in causing damage to the property. (Ralphs Grocery
Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262 [trespass
elements].) Likewise, the Complaint sufficiently alleges Defendants FQB and
Hosseni misrepresented to Plaintiff that they were licensed to do business in
California, knew their representations were false, intended Plaintiff to rely
on those misrepresentations, Plaintiff did rely on those misrepresentations and
hired them for the project, and suffered damages as a result of their conduct. (Aton
Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245
[intentional misrepresentation elements].) Similarly, the Complaint
sufficiently alleges Defendants transferred property to Defendant Eli Tour LLC
with the intent to hinder or delay their creditors such Plaintiff from
recovering on his claim  against them. (Nautilus,
Inc. v. Yang (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 33, 39 [fraudulent transfer elements].)
 
Further,
the Complaint sufficiently alleges Defendants received $18,400.00  from Plaintiff and did not complete the
project they were contracted to do, received this money under false pretenses,
and used those funds for their own personal use. (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769 [unjust enrichment elements]; Regent
Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181 [conversion
elements]; People v. Selivanov (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 726, 764
[embezzlement elements]; Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (a).) Finally, as explained
earlier, the Complaint sufficiently alleges Defendants engaged in the business
of a contractor in the State of California without being duly licensed to do
so. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 7031, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Therefore,
the demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety.
 
Motion to Strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time
limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  “The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)¿ 
            
            Defendants move to strike paragraphs
27, 33, 39, 48, 58, 64, 72, 78, 86 (attorney’s fees allegations) and paragraphs
38, 47, 57, 63, 67, 71, 77, and 93 (punitive damages allegations) form the
Complaint. Defendants argue Plaintiff’s lack authority for his request for
attorney’s fees because the Complaint contains conclusory allegations in regard
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1029.8 and whether or not Defendants held a
license does not provide authorization for attorney’s fees. Defendants further
contend Plaintiff’s lack of privity based on the face of the Complaint shows
that Defendants Hosseni, Moghaddam, and Eli Tour LLC were not part of the
contract. Last, Defendants assert there no specific facts pled to show that
Defendants engaged in malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent conduct directed at Plaintiff
to support punitive damages. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues he
is entitled to attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1029.8,
subdivision (a), which provides in relevant part: “Any unlicensed person who
causes injury or damage to another person as a result of providing goods or
performing services for which a license is required under Division 2
(commencing with Section 500) or any initiative act referred to therein,
Division 3 (commencing with Section 5000), or Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 18600) or Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 19000) of Division 8, of
the Business and Professions Code, or Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 25210)
or Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 25230) of Part 3 of Division 1 of Title 4
of the Corporations Code, shall be liable to the injured person for treble the
amount of damages assessed in a civil action in any court having proper jurisdiction.
The court may, in its discretion, award all costs and attorney’s fees to the
injured person if that person prevails in the action.” As such, Plaintiff
contends the Complaint expressly alleges Defendants were required to be
licensed and were not in fact licensed, resulting in damages to Plaintiff.
Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that the Complaint contains allegations against
Defendants Moghaddam and Eli Tour LLC for liability not based on a contractual
relationship as discussed in the opposition to the demurrer. Finally, Plaintiff
argues the Complaint properly alleged fraud to support an award of punitive
damages. 
 
To
state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing that the¿defendant has been guilty of
malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.
App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with
specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient. Id. A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if
proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud
or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191
Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)¿¿ 
 
“Malice”
is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847,
891.)¿¿“Fraud” is defined in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿¿ 
 
¿           To prove that a defendant acted with
“willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not
enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and
reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90).
Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude
that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or
contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 704, 725.)¿
 
            The Court finds that the Complaint
sufficiently pleads facts to support an award of attorney’s fees and punitive
damages. The Complaint alleges Defendants were required to have contractor’s
licenses to do business in California. The Complaint further alleges Defendants
were not licensed contractors and/or otherwise permitted to do business in
California. The Complaint also alleges Defendants misrepresented their
licensure status to Plaintiff, knowing they did not have a license, with the
intent to induce Plaintiff’s reliance on these misrepresentations, Plaintiff
relied on these misrepresentations, and Plaintiff suffered damages in the
amount of at least $18,400.00. Thus, the face of the Complaint shows
authorization for attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1029.8,
subdivision (a) and states sufficient facts with specificity as to fraud to
support an award of punitive damages. 
 
            Therefore, the motion to strike is
DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 7th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






