  Case Number:  23STCV13092    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT 71   UPDATED TENTATIVE  RULING      THE RACQUET CENTRE, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED    PARTNERSHIP D/B/A STUDIO PLAZA, et al.,                     vs.   CALIFORNIA CAPITAL INSURANCE COMPANY.    Case    No.:  23STCV13092              Hearing Date:  August 6, 2024      Plaintiffs The Racquet Centre, A California  Limited Partnership d/b/a Studio Plaza’s and VDA Property Company’s motion for  summary adjudication of the 2nd cause of action for declaratory relief in its  complaint is denied.    Plaintiffs  The Racquet Centre, A California Limited Partnership d/b/a Studio Plaza  (“Studio Plaza”) and VDA Property Company (“VDA”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move  for summary adjudication of its 2nd cause of action for declaratory relief  alleged in its complaint (“Complaint”) against Defendant California Insurance  Group (“CIG”) (“Defendant”) on the basis there are no triable issues of  material fact and Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as a matter  of law.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §437c(f).)     Evidentiary  Objections Defendant’s  7/24/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Thomas Von Der Ahe, Jr. (“Von  Der Ahe”) are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. Defendant’s  7/24/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Adam D. Wieder (“Weider”)  are overruled as to No. 10.   Background Plaintiffs filed its operative Complaint on June 8, 2023,  against Defendant alleging four causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory  judgment, (3) bad faith, and (4) violation of Business & Professions Code  §17200 arising from Defendant’s issuance of a Special Form Businessowners  Policy to VDA.  (See Complaint  ¶10.) Plaintiffs filed the instant motion on May 21, 2024.  Defendant filed its opposition on July 24,  2024.  Plaintiff filed a reply on August 1, 2024.   Legal  Standard A  motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a  motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a  motion for summary judgment.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(2).)  A party may move  for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action if  that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or to an affirmative  defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for  damages, as specified in Civil Code §3294, or that one or more defendants  either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(1).)  A motion for summary adjudication shall be  granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative  defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (C.C.P.  §437c(f)(1).)    Declaratory Judgment (2nd COA) Any  person claiming rights with respect to property, a contract, or a written  instrument (other than a will or trust) may bring an action for a declaration  of the party’s rights or duties with respect to another. The action may be  brought before any breach occurs of the obligation regarding which the  declaration of rights is sought.  (C.C.P.  §1060; Market Lofts Community Association v. 9th Street Market  Lofts, LLC (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 924, 931.)  However, such declaratory relief requires the  existence of an actual, present controversy between the parties over a proper  subject.  (City of Cotati v.  Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 79; Jenkins v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.  (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 497, 513-514.) Insurance  policies are contracts and therefore subject to the rules of construction  governing contracts.  (Bank of the West v. Superior Court (1992)  2 Cal.4th 1258.)  “Under statutory rules  of contract interpretation, the mutual intention of the parties at the time the  contract is formed governs interpretation. . . . Such intent is to be inferred,  if possible, solely from the written provisions of the contract.”  (AIU Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1990) 51  Cal.3d 807, 821-822; see also Waller v. Truck Insurance  Exchange, Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 18.)  The rules governing policy interpretation  require the court to look first to the language of the contract in order to  ascertain its plain meaning or the meaning a layperson ordinarily would attach  to it.  (Id.) Plaintiffs  allege Defendant issued Special Form Businessowners policy number  13-BOP-1-070014859 to VDA for the policy period January 1, 2022, to January 1,  2023 (“Policy”).  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiffs allege Studio Plaza is an  additional named insured pursuant to the Policy’s additional named insured  schedule.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiffs allege the Policy insures multiple  locations, including the property located at 10901-10989 Ventura Boulevard,  Studio City, CA 91604-3341, which is identified as “Location #3” in the Policy  (“Property”), and which is owned by Studio Plaza.  (Complaint ¶12.)   Plaintiffs  allege the Policy’s Declarations state that the Property is a single building  described as “Shopping Centers with up to 50% Restaurants.”  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiffs allege the Policy’s insuring  agreement states that Defendant “will pay for direct physical loss of or damage  to Covered Property at the premises described in the Declarations caused by or resulting  from any Covered Cause of Loss.”   (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiffs  allege “Covered Property” includes “Buildings,” which means “the buildings and structures  at the premises described in the Declarations, including: . . . (2) Fixtures .  . . ; (3) Permanently installed (a) Machinery; and (b) Equipment; [and] (7)  Garages, storage buildings, fences and other structures used in your business.”  (Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiffs allege “Covered Property” also  includes “Business Personal Property located in or on the buildings at the  described premises . . . including: (1) Property that you own that is used in  your business; [and] (2) Property of others that is in your care, custody, or  control, except as otherwise provided in Loss Payment Property Loss Condition  E.6.d.(3)(b).”  (Complaint ¶16.)   Plaintiffs  allege the Policy defines “Covered Causes of Loss” as “Risks of Direct Physical  Loss unless the loss is a. Excluded in Section B., Exclusions; or b. Limited in  Paragraph A.4, Limitations, that follow.”   (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiffs  allege the Policy provides for replacement cost coverage for the insured  property.  (Complaint ¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege the building limit for the  Property is $14,827,215.  (Complaint  ¶18.) Plaintiffs  allege on or about July 24, 2022, the Property experienced an incident that  caused a lengthy power outage at the Property.  (Complaint ¶19.)  Plaintiffs allege the incident occurred in an  underground vault at the Property.   (Complaint ¶19.)  Plaintiffs  allege the vault was built for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power  (“DWP”) at the time the shopping center was built.  (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiffs allege the vault houses electrical  equipment that transforms power running into the vault into 480-volt  electricity for the shopping center’s tenants.   (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiffs  allege although Defendant maintains that DWP owns the vault, the Property’s  title records show that Studio Plaza owns the Property, and Defendant has  identified no basis or evidence to support its baseless assertion on which it  relies for its coverage position.  (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege regardless of who owns the vault,  it is Covered Property that is insured by the Policy.  (Complaint ¶21.)   Plaintiffs  allege power is transferred via cable to a bus bar system, which runs from the  vault into a secondary access room and then runs into the main electric room of  the shopping center.  (Complaint  ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege water intruded  down the vault wall and landed on one of the bars, which ultimately led to  arcing and the power outage at the center.   (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiffs  allege as a result of the power outage, Studio Plaza incurred costs to run  temporary generators that ran 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for almost a  month.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege Studio Plaza also worked  with DWP to put a temporary repair into place for the electrical equipment but  there are additional repairs that may be needed to complete the repair.  (Complaint ¶25.)   Plaintiffs  allege Studio Plaza timely provided Defendant with notice of the incident  (“Claim”).  (Complaint ¶26.)  Plaintiffs allege on or about March 20, 2023,  Studio Plaza provided Defendant with invoices for its losses relating to the  temporary power generation.  (Complaint  ¶27.)  Plaintiffs allege that although  DWP has told Studio Plaza that it will seek reimbursement for the costs to  repair the electrical equipment, DWP has not sent Studio Plaza a request for reimbursement  for that portion of Studio Plaza’s loss.   (Complaint ¶28.)   Plaintiffs  allege on or about August 25, 2022, Defendant sent written correspondence to  VDA regarding the Claim.  (Complaint  ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant  asserted that based upon a report from Rimkus Engineering, “the electrical vault  is owned and maintained by [DWP]. Your policy covers property that is owned by  VDA for which you have an insurable interest. The electrical vault that failed  is considered ‘Property of Others.’”   (Complaint ¶30.)  Plaintiffs  allege Defendant has identified no basis or evidence in support of its  statement the DWP owns the vault, and the vault is Covered Property no matter  who owns the vault.  (Complaint  ¶31.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant also  raised three exclusions to the Policy: (1) the Power Failure exclusion; (2) the  Weather Conditions exclusion; and (3) the Acts of Decisions exclusion.  (See  Complaint ¶¶32-37.)  Plaintiffs allege  none of the three exclusions apply.  (See Complaint ¶¶34, 36, 38.) Plaintiffs  allege Defendant also referred to a coverage extension in the Policy (“Utility  Services coverage extension”), which states that “[t]he most we will pay for  loss or damage in any one occurrence under this section is $25,000.”  (See  Complaint ¶¶39-40.)  Plaintiffs allege  the Utility Services coverage extension does not apply to limit Defendant’s  liability for the Claim because this coverage extension applies only to  property damage “if such property is located outside a covered building  described in the Declarations.”  (Complaint ¶41.)  Plaintiffs allege that here, the property  damage occurred to insured Property and not to uninsured property.  (Complaint ¶41.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant did not deny any  portion of the Claim in its August 25, 2022, correspondence.  (Complaint ¶42.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant stated that it  continued to investigate the Claim and reserved Defendant’s rights under the Policy.  (Complaint ¶42.) Plaintiffs  allege that under the Policy, Defendant has a duty to pay covered claims.  (Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant has refused to  acknowledge that the Claim is covered under the Policy.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege VDA paid Defendant all  premiums and substantially performed any and all conditions under the  Policy.  (Complaint ¶67.)   Plaintiffs  allege they are entitled to seek a judicial determination of any question or  construction of the Policy and to obtain a declaration of rights, status, or  legal relations thereunder.  (Complaint  ¶67.)  Plaintiffs allege an actual and  justiciable controversy exists between the Parties, which may be determined by  a judgment or order of this Court.  (Complaint  ¶68.)  Plaintiffs allege the issuance of  a declaratory judgment with respect to the Parties’ dispute will terminate  existing uncertainty and controversy between the Parties relative to the  Parties’ rights, status, and legal relations under the Policy.  (Complaint ¶69.)  Plaintiffs allege they respectfully request  that the Court enter a judgment finding and declaring that Defendant has an  obligation to pay the Claim and that the Court award all additional just and  proper relief.  (Complaint ¶70.) Plaintiff  argues the Water Endorsement is ineffective at limiting Defendant’s obligations  under the Policy and that the Water Endorsement does not limit Defendant’s  coverage obligations under the Policy.  (Motion Memo, pg. 9.) Plaintiff  submitted evidence that the Policy is an “all risks” property policy.  (Benavides v. State Farm General Insurance Co. (2006) 136  Cal.App.4th 1241, 1246 [stating an “all risks” policy is one that “covers risks  of physical loss except those excluded under the terms of the insuring  contract. Under an all-risk policy, the limits of coverage are defined by the  exclusions.”].)   It is axiomatic that “[t]he  whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect to every  part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.”  (Civ. Code §1641.)   Here,  the Policy’s “Section B. EXCLUSIONS” is not ambiguous. The “Businessowners  Special Property Coverage Limitations And Exclusions Endorsement” provides: THIS  ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY. . . .   This endorsement modified  insurance provided under the following:   BUSINESSOWNERS  SPECIAL PROPERTY COVERAGE FORM . . .   Section  B. EXCLUSIONS is amended to read as follows:   The following exclusion is added  to Section B. EXCLUSIONS:   6.  Continuous or repeated seepage or leakage of water that occurs over a period of  14 days or more.   (Plaintiff’s  Undisputed Separate Statement of Fact [“P-USSF”] 12; P-COE Exh. A at pg. 100.) By  its terms, this “exclusion is added to Section B. EXCLUSIONS.”  In order to understand how this endorsement  modifies the insurance policy, one must go to Section B. EXCLUSIONS.  (P-USSF 11; P-COE Exh. A at pg. 38.)  Paragraphs 1 through 5 of Section B.  EXCLUSIONS set forth exclusions on different subjects.  The “Businessowners Special Property Coverage Limitations  And Exclusions Endorsement” now adds a paragraph 6 to Section B. EXCLUSIONS.  The only purpose of Section B. EXCLUSIONS is to set forth exclusions, which is  why the title is “Section B. EXCLUSIONS.”  Thus, the Policy excludes losses caused by  continuous or repeated water seepage or leakage that lasts 14 days or more.  This language is clear.   The  Court is not convinced by Plaintiffs’ argument that because Section 6 in “Businessowners  Special Property Coverage Limitations And Exclusions Endorsement” does not  specifically include language such as “[w]e will not pay for a loss or damage  caused directly or indirectly by any of the following” that appears in other  exclusions, it is ambiguous and should be ignored.  Plaintiffs’ construal of the Policy ignores  the fact that the endorsement expressly states that it is added to “Section B.  EXCLUSIONS”, and that “The following exclusion” (“6. Continuous or repeated  seepage or leakage of water that occurs over a period of 14 days or more.”) is  what is added.  There are five exclusions  in Section B. The endorsement identifies the next exclusion in sequence: Number  6.  It is implicit in the endorsement that  Defendant “will not pay for a loss or damage caused directly or indirectly by  any of the following” when interpreted in context of the other five and the  exclusion section where it appears. Therefore, the endorsement is not ambiguous. Further,  Plaintiffs submitted undisputed evidence that on or about July 24, 2022, electrical  equipment responsible for transmitting power to the Property failed, causing a  lengthy power outage at the Property, and Defendant sent a letter on August 25,  2022, acknowledging Plaintiffs’ claim, and Defendant sent an additional letter  on July 12, 2023, stating the claim investigation determined:  [T]he predominant cause of the  loss was repeated seepage and leakage of water through the utility vault  ceiling over a period of more than 14 days. It appears that the seepage and  leakage occurred repeatedly over a period of years, as employees of the Ralph’s  Grocery store hosed down the floor to their store. As quoted above, the policy  excludes from coverage “continuous or repeated seepage or leakage of water that  occurs over a period of 14 days or more.”     (P-USSF  14, 23, 34; P-COE, Decl. of Von Der Ahe ¶5; Exhs. B, M at pg. 291.) Based  on Plaintiffs’ undisputed evidence, the predominant cause of the loss was  repeated seepage and leakage of water through the utility vault ceiling over a period  of more than 14 days, which is subject to a coverage exception in the  policy.  Therefore, Plaintiffs failed to  meet their burden to demonstrate Defendant owed Plaintiffs a duty under the  Policy as a matter of law.  Accordingly,  Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication of the 2nd cause of action is denied.   Conclusion Plaintiffs’  motion for summary adjudication is denied as to the 2nd cause of action. Moving  Party to give notice.   Dated:  August  _____, 2024                                                                                       