 Case Number:  22STCV34941    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
11, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  April
28, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Angelique Gomez, et
al. v. National General Insurance Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV34941
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
National General Insurance Company and Integon National Insurance Company 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
            
I.          BACKGROUND           
 
            This
is a bad faith insurance action.  On
November 2, 2022, Plaintiffs, Angelique Gomez (“Gomez”) and Martin Gomez Ambriz
(“Ambriz”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed a Complaint against Defendants National
General Insurance Company (“NGIC”), Integon National Insurance Company
(“Integon”), Freeway Insurance Services, Inc., and Freeway Insurance Services
America, LLC, for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Duty of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, and (3) Professional Negligence.  Plaintiffs allege that
they had automobile insurance coverage with Integon.  In 2020, Gomez was involved in a collision.  Plaintiffs submitted a claim with Integon
which was denied.  In reporting the
claim, Plaintiff responded “Yes” to a query from the adjuster whether there
were people 14 years or older living in the house.  Plaintiffs’ affirmative response contradicted
their previous response when applying for insurance with Integon indicating
there were not any people in the applicable age.  Coverage was denied based on this
misrepresentation, which Plaintiffs contend was made in bad faith. 
 
On January 24, 2024, NGIC and
Integon (hereafter, “Defendants”) timely filed this Motion for Summary Judgment,
or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication.
 
On April 2, 2024, Defendants filed
a Notice of Non-Opposition to their Motion.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
 
When reviewing a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ A motion
for summary judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c).)  
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1519 (Scalf).)¿ A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears
the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and
that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891 (Gaggero).)¿ The defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
855.)¿ 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿
A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by showing one or more
triable issues of material fact exist as to the challenged element. (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear
in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have
defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case
or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
A
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.54(c).) 
 III.           
DISCUSSION 
Defendants move for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, on the ground that Ambriz
made material representations on their policy application for automobile
coverage.  In support, Defendants submit
the following undisputed facts:
Ambriz applied for an automobile
insurance policy with Integon on November 11, 2019.  (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts (UMF)
1.)  He applied for the Policy in person
through his insurance broker, Freeway Insurance Services Inc. (“Freeway”)  (UMF 2.)  At the time of the application, Ambriz was
living with his daughter, plaintiff Angelique Gomez, and his son, Adam Gomez.  Adam Gomez was 18 years old at the time.  (UMF 5, 6.)  Ambriz was expressly asked to disclose all
household members 14 years and older on the application, and he confirmed he
did so in his written response  (UMF 7.)  The application, which Ambriz admitted he
signed, contained a list of 12 questions, the first of which clearly asked,
“Have you disclosed all household members 14 years and older on the
application?” (UMF 7.)  The box next to
this question was marked “yes.” (UMF 7.)  Ambriz also signed a separate Applicant’s
Statement, which read in part: APPLICANT’S STATEMENT – PLEASE READ CAREFULLY I
agree all answers to all questions in this Application are true and correct. I
understand, recognize, and agree said answers are given and made for the
purpose of inducing the Company to issue the policy for which I have applied. I
further agree that ALL household members 14 years and older … are shown above.
… I understand the Company may rescind this policy if said answers on this
Application are false or misleading, and materially affect the risk the Company
assumes by issuing the policy.  (UMF 8.)  
            The
Applicant’s Statement went on to explain that Ambriz had a continuing duty to
inform Integon of any changes to material information including the members of
his household: Continuing Duty To Inform: I understand that I have a continuing
duty to notify the insurance company of any changes concerning the following: …
(2) member(s) of my household age 14 years and older; … I understand that the
insurance company may rescind this policy and deny coverage if I fail to notify
the company of these changes.  (UMF 9.)  Martin Gomez also initialed next to a nearly
identical statement later in the application reminding him yet again of his
duty to disclose all household members age 14 and older.  (UMF 10.)
            Ambriz’s
primary language is Spanish.  (UMF
3.)  Ambriz’s broker spoke to Ambriz in
Spanish during the application process. 
(UMF 3.)  Ambriz’s broker signed a
“Producer’s Statement,” swearing that he asked all questions on the
application.  (UMF 12.)  The broker later confirmed in an email that
all questions on the application were asked and that the broker had no prior
knowledge of the undisclosed household member, Adam Gomez.  (UMF 38.)  The broker also advised that Freeway again
reminded Ambriz that he had to disclose all household members when he
subsequently amended the Policy.  (UMF 38.)
 Ambriz also admitted he signed another
form provided to him by his broker during the application process, which was
written entirely in Spanish and which again stated that Ambriz was required to
disclose all household members over the age of 14.  (UMF 55.)
Gomez was in an accident in an
insured vehicle on October 15, 2020. 
(UMF 36.)  That same day, Gomez
gave a recorded statement revealing that Adam Gomez was an undisclosed
household member and that he was over 14 years old and had been living with Plaintiffs
at the time of the application.  (UMF 37.)  The claim was reviewed at a roundtable on
October 26, 2020.  (UMF 47.)  At the roundtable, the decision was made to
rescind the Policy based on the undisclosed household member and the associated
impact on premium.  (UMF 48.)  Integon sent a Notice of Rescission on October
30, 2020 and sent a letter denying the claim in light of the decision to
rescind on November 3, 2020.  (UMF 50.)  As part of the rescission process, Integon
issued Ambriz a check for the return of his premium payments on the Policy term
to date.  (UMF 51.)  This check was prepared and mailed to Martin
Gomez.  (UMF 51.)
Based on the foregoing, Defendants
meet their initial summary judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to
show a triable issue of material facts.  (See Scalf, supra,
128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)  Plaintiffs have not filed opposition. 
 IV.           
CONCLUSION  
Accordingly,
Defendants National General Insurance Company and Integon National Insurance
Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendants
are ordered to file a proposed judgment within ten (10) days of this order.
Defendants to
give notice.
Dated:   April 11, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 