  Case Number:  21STCV16180    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
11, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Carlos Chavez v.
Schlumberger Technology Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV16180





















 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Schlumberger Technology Corporation and Timothy Ramey  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Carlos
Chavez
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a discrimination, retaliation, and wrongful
termination case.  On April 29, 2021, Plaintiff
Carlos Chavez (“Chavez” or “Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Schlumberger
Technology Corporation (“Schlumberger”) and Timothy Ramey (“Ramey”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for (1) Interference with Right to
Medical Leave under the California Family Rights Act, (2) Retaliation for
Taking Medical Leave under the California Family Rights Act, (3) Retaliation
for Taking Medical Leave, (4) Discrimination, (5) Failure to Accommodate, (6)
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process, (7) Harassment, (8) Failure to
Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation, and (9) Wrongful Discharge
in Violation of Public Policy.   
 
            On February
26, 2024, Defendants filed this Amended Motion for Protective Order[1]
to prevent a second deposition of Schlumberger’s person most qualified
(PMQ).  
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)¿ The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other
natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(b).)¿ The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Id.,
subd. (a).)¿ The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (h).)¿ 
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an objection and
motion to strike the Supplemental Declaration of Heather D. Hearne in Support
of Defendants’ Reply for the Motion for Protective Order.  Plaintiff argues that the Supplemental Hearne
Declaration improperly includes new evidence (Exhibits H through K).  
 
            The
objection is well-founded.  “The general
rule of motion practice, which applies here, is that new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers.”  (Jay v.
Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)  Defendants improperly introduced new evidence
with its Reply.  The objection is
therefore SUSTAINED.  The court does not
consider Exhibits H through K attached to the Supplemental Hearne Declaration. 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
            
            Defendants
seek a protective order to prevent a second deposition of Schlumberger’s PMQ
based on undue burden.  They argue a
protective order is necessary because Plaintiff unilaterally noticed the second
deposition of Schlumberger’s PMQ on 43 new topics and concurrently served 48
new requests for production all with little time to identify and prepare the persons
most qualified.  Further, the information
Plaintiff seeks is readily obtainable by less burdensome means.
 
            Defendants
do not demonstrate good cause to prevent the deposition.  Before, after or even during a deposition,
“for good cause shown,” the court may grant a protective order to control the
deposition proceedings or the information obtained thereby. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.420.)  The court is
empowered to issue whatever order “justice requires” to protect a party or
deponent against “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” [CCP § 2025.420(b); see Nativi v. Deutsche Bank Nat'l
Trust Co. (2014) 223 CA4th 261, 316, 167 CR3d 173, 218—§ 2025.420(b)
provides “nonexclusive list of permissible directions that may be
included in a protective order” (emphasis in original)].  Generally, this requires a showing that the burdens
involved in the deposition proceeding clearly outweigh whatever benefits
are sought to be obtained thereby. [See CCP § 2017.020(a), ¶ 8:74].”  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:675.)  
            Here,
Defendants do not show how the burdens of a second PMQ deposition clearly
outweigh the benefits sought.[2]   Instead,
they focus entirely on the amount of discovery requests that Plaintiff has
served on Defendants.[3]  This ground, alone, is insufficient to support
a protective order.  Defendants do not
dispute that Plaintiff seeks relevant information or that an entity’s PMQ may
deposed more than once.  (See Code Civ.
Proc. 2025.610, subd. (c)(1) [One subsequent deposition of a natural person who
has previously been examined may be taken when the person was examined as a
result of that person's designation to testify on behalf of an organization
under Section 2025.230).)  
 
            The court,
however, agrees that ten days (or fifteen days) is insufficient time to prepare
a PMQ for the discovery sought. 
Accordingly, the court will order the second deposition of
Schlumberger’s PMQ within 60 days of this order.
 
Sanctions
 
Defendants request an award of reasonable fees and costs for
bringing this Motion and imposition of sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel.  If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the
person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested,
that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be
set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary
sanction.  Here, Defendants’ notice of motion does not indicate that they
are seeking sanctions, let alone against whom the sanctions are sought.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the motion for protective order is GRANTED
in part, and DENIED in part.  
 
Schlumberger’s PMQ is ordered to appear for a second
deposition within 60 days of this order.   
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Dated:   April 11, 2024                                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            


