 Case Number:  24SMCV00736    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Dismiss Complaint is GRANTED in part. Defendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The proceedings are hereby stayed pending resolution of arbitration. Defendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Request to Dismiss Complaint is DENIED.Defendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Motion to Stay Litigation Pending Resolution of Lennox’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED as MOOT.Defendant MDDR, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action Pending Completion of Arbitration Proceedings is GRANTED. The proceedings are hereby stayed pending resolution of arbitration.Moving parties to give notice.REASONINGDefendant Lennox Industries, Inc. (“Lennox”) and Defendant MDDR, Inc. (“MDDR”) (collectively “Defendants”) move the Court for an order compelling the parties to submit to arbitration. Insofar as Lennox moves the Court to stay this action pending resolution of its motion for arbitration, that motion is DENIED as MOOT.Request for Judicial NoticeLennox requests judicial notice of Lennox’s Statement of Information filed with the Secretary of State. Lennox’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).AnalysisDefendants move to compel Plaintiff to submit to arbitration on the ground that the parties have an agreement to arbitrate all claims arising out of the agreement between the parties concerning HVAC and solar panel related services, materials, and equipment, but Plaintiff has refused to submit to arbitration. Plaintiff opposes Lennox’s motion on the grounds that the dispute is not covered by an arbitration clause, Plaintiff did not agree to arbitrate with Lennox, and the arbitration provision is unconscionable. Plaintiff opposes MDDR’s motion on the grounds that the dispute is not covered by an arbitration clause, and the arbitration provision is unconscionable.“[I]n considering a . . . petition to compel arbitration, a trial court must make the preliminary determinations whether there is an agreement to arbitrate and whether the petitioner is a party to that agreement (or can otherwise enforce the agreement).” (M & M Foods, Inc. v. Pac. Am. Fish Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 554, 559; see also Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 (Giuliano) [“petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence”].) In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine whether plaintiff’s claims are covered by the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove, by a preponderance of evidence, a defense to enforcement of the agreement. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)Code of Civil Procedure section 1281 states, “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides, in relevant part:On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.(c) A party to the arbitration is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party . . . .“The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Eng’rs & Architects Ass’n v. Cmty. Dev. Dep’t (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) General principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Chan v. Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc. (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 632, 640-641 [“The existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate involves general contract principles”].)Lennox provides evidence of a mandatory arbitration clause within a limited warranty issued when Plaintiff executed a contract to purchase and have a Lennox HVAC unit installed, which was installed by MDDR. (See Compl. ¶¶ 8, 11, 12.) The third page of the limited warranty states, under a bolded and capitalized heading stating “DISPUTE RESOLUTION”: “Mandatory Arbitration: Both the Owner and Lennox agree that all Disputes must be resolved exclusively through final and binding arbitration, and not by a court or jury . . . .” (Lennox Mot., Wood Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) The arbitration clause defines “Disputes” as follows:The terms “Dispute” and “Disputes” will be broadly interpreted to include any claims, disagreements or controversies that the Owner and Lennox had, have or may have against each other, whether based in contract or tort or on a statute or regulation or any other legal theory, including, without limitation, all claims, disagreements or controversies related in any way to or arising in any way out of: (a) the Equipment and components covered by this Limited Warranty; (b) any other Lennox equipment, component or service; (c) any Lennox advertising, representation or marketing; (d) any contract, warranty, or other agreement that Owner had or has with Lennox; (e) any Lennox billing or other policy or practice…. (i) any aspect of the relationship between the Owner and Lennox.(Lennox Mot., Wood Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 2.)First, Plaintiff argues that Lennox has failed to show that the limited warranty applies to the HVAC units at issue in this action. However, the evidence shows that Plaintiff purchased units within the purview of the limited warranty. (Mot., Wood Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6, Exs. 1, 2; Reply, Wood Supplemental Decl. ¶¶ 3, 6, Ex. 1.) Second, Plaintiff argues that he is not bound by the arbitration clauses because he was not provided with the limited warranties before purchasing the equipment, such that he did not assent to the agreements, but Plaintiff has sought to enforce the limited warranties, such that he cannot both assert a claim under these agreements and contend he did not assent to them. (See Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496 [a party cannot make use of a contract containing an arbitration clause to his or her advantage then attempt to avoid its application].) It follows that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate with Lennox, and the dispute is covered by the arbitration agreement.Separately, Plaintiff entered into an agreement with MDDR on July 19, 2020 for MDDR to provide material and labor for the installation of the HVAC and solar panel systems. (MDDR Mot., Stec Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Paragraph 3 of page 2 of the contract contains an arbitration provision stating as follows:Notice: By Accepting The Proposal On The Front Of The Form You Are Agreeing To Have Any Dispute Arising Out Of The Matters Included In The “Arbitration Of Disputes’” Provision Decided By Neutral Arbitration As Provided By California Law And You Are Giving Up Any Rights. You Might Possess To Have The Dispute Litigated In A Court Or Jury Trial In The County Of Orange, Ca. Further You Are Giving Up Your Judicial Rights To Discovery And Appeal, Unless Those Rights Are Specifically Included In The “Arbitration Of Disputes’ Provision. If You Refuse To Submit To Arbitration After Agreeing To This Provision, You May Be Compelled To Arbitrate Under The Authority Of The Business And Professions Code Or Other Applicable Laws. Your Agreement To This Arbitration Provision Is Voluntary.” “We Have Read And Understand The Foregoing And Agree To Submit Disputes Arising Out Of The Matters Included In The “Arbitration Of Disputes’ Provision To Neutral Arbitration.(MDDR Mot., Stec Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Plaintiff argues that this dispute is not covered by this agreement because the referenced “Arbitration Of Disputes” Provision is absent from the agreement. Although the language is confusing and could imply the existence of another agreement, the Court understands this reference to be referring to the provision itself. The agreement also does not read to refer only to disputes litigated in Orange County. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff also agreed to arbitrate claims with MDDR, and the dispute is covered by the arbitration agreement.Plaintiff also makes several arguments that the agreements are unconscionable. It is axiomatic that “a party opposing the petition [to compel arbitration] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano, supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.) “Courts analyze the unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of procedural and substantive unconscionability.” (McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87 (McManus).) “The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract is one of adhesion” and “whether there is oppression arising from an inequality of bargaining power or surprise arising from buried terms in a complex printed form.” (Ibid., quotation marks omitted.) “The substantive element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.” (Ibid.) “An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.” (Ibid.)“Procedural unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement; it focuses on the oppression that arises from unequal bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party that results from hidden terms or the lack of informed choice.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.) An arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable where the provision “does not fall within the reasonable expectations of the weaker or ‘adhering’ party,” is “unduly oppressive,” or has “overly harsh or one-sided” terms. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-114 (Armendariz); McManus, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at p. 87.) “An arbitration agreement is lawful if it (1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require [the assenting party] to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 102, quotation marks omitted.)First, as to whether the limited warranties were unconscionable because they were presented on a “take it or leave it” basis, presentation of an arbitration agreement on a “take it or leave it” basis, even in an employment context, does not automatically render the agreement procedurally unconscionable; Plaintiff must also show that there was no opportunity for meaningful negotiation or that he was subjected to oppressive tactics that forced him to sign the agreement. (See Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127 [“a compulsory predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it is required as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis”].) Notably, Plaintiff makes no argument that he was not given the agreement to review and study the limited warranties before purchasing the products, and there is no evidence that anyone exerted pressure on Plaintiff. Further, the agreements are relatively short proposals, in a normal sized typeface, with headings making clear that the agreement was one to arbitrate claims.Plaintiff also argues that the agreement is unconscionable because the Song-Beverly Act does not provide for any fee shifting onto the consumer, and the fees that Plaintiff would be required to pay to pursue arbitration are unconscionable because they deter Plaintiff’s ability to pursue his claims. However, the agreement does not read as preventing the arbitrator from awarding Plaintiff his fees should he prevail. Insofar as Plaintiff takes issue with arbitration costs deterring him from bringing his claims, this would make most arbitration provisions invalid, and Plaintiff provides no evidence that he is unable to pay the costs for arbitration. Accordingly, Defendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Dismiss Complaint is GRANTED in part. Defendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The proceedings are hereby stayed pending resolution of arbitration. Defendant Lennox Industries Inc.’s Request to Dismiss Complaint is DENIED. Lennox provides no binding authority showing that a dismissal is proper here, and the Court will not rely on federal cases to dismiss an action that may properly be stayed until the conclusion of arbitration.As to MDDR, Plaintiff argues that the agreement with MDDR is unconscionable because it is missing material terms such as the definitions of “You,” “Your,” and “We,” the agreement fails to state how Plaintiff was able to opt out of any agreement, and there are no terms as to how the arbitration will be conducted. First, the agreement cannot be read in a way that makes the definitions of “You,” “Your,” and “We” confusing or to refer to anyone other than Plaintiff and MDDR. Second, there is no requirement that an arbitration agreement describe the opt-out process. Third, the mere failure to describe the process of arbitration or failure to name an arbitrator does not deny Plaintiff the opportunity to have a neutral arbitrator. The Court will not assume that MDDR will employ a non-neutral arbitrator in this action. Accordingly, Defendant MDDR, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action Pending Completion of Arbitration Proceedings is GRANTED. The proceedings are hereby stayed pending resolution of arbitration.