 Case Number:  24NNCV01744    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT
SABRINA CULLEN’S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGESDefendant Cullen moves for an order striking punitive damages from the
Complaint.  This
action arises from an alleged dog bite incident.  Plaintiff was working for WAG, a dog walking service
hired by Defendant Cullen to walk the latter’s dog.  At one point, a third party walking another
dog agitated Defendant Cullen’s dog (whom Plaintiff was walking) such that
Defendant Cullen’s dog bit Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff sues defendants for injuries sustained from the dog bite and
seeks punitive damages.Tentative RulingThe Motion
to Strike is DENIED.  Defendant Cullen is
to answer the Complaint within 10 days, by December 29, 2024.Legal Authority and AnalysisThe court may, upon
a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Id., at § 431.10, subd.
(b).)  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)  A motion to strike punitive
damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)Defendant moves to
strike the following matter from Plaintiff’s Complaint: 
Page 13,
lines 8-9: “5.  For exemplary and
punitive damages according to proof; if allowed by law and according to proof.” 
Punitive damages have
been authorized by statute since 1872 in tort actions “where the tortious event
involves an additional egregious component - ‘oppression, fraud, or malice.’  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)”  (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 712.)  “[T]he Legislature
has made it more difficult for plaintiffs to plead and prove such claims,” (id.
at p. 712) including by amending section 3294 in 1987 “by increasing the
plaintiff’s burden of proving punitive damages at trial to ‘clear and
convincing evidence.’”  (Weisman v.
Blue Shield of California (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 61, 65, fn. 3.)For plaintiffs
attempting to prove malice by showing a ‘conscious disregard’ of their rights
as opposed to an actual intent to harm, the Act imposed additional requirements
of ‘despicable’ and ‘willful’ defense conduct.”  (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at
p. 713.)  Malice is defined in Civil Code
section 3294, subdivision (c)(1), as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.”  (Underlines
added.)  The addition of “willful”
“arguably conformed the literal words of the statute to existing case law
formulations” that “malice involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a
willful and deliberate failure to avoid them.”  (Id., at p. 725.)  As amended to include the word “despicable,”
the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.  The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (Ibid.)  Finally, the allegations supporting a request
for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations
without sufficient facts are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)In Plaintiff’s Complaint,
she alleges her belief that the dog was determined to be potentially dangerous and
vicious within the meaning of Sections 31602(a) and 31603(a) of the California
Food & Agriculture Code.  (Compl., §
39.)  Plaintiff further alleged that the
dog had previously attacked similarly situated persons and that Defendant
Cullen knew of its viciousness and propensity to attack.  (Id., at ¶¶ 40-41.)  Assuming these allegations are true, they sufficiently
allege conduct by Defendant Cullen with a willful and conscious disregard for
the safety of others.  Therefore, the Court denies the motion to strike.Moving Party is to give notice.