  Case Number:  20STCV17040    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Ultimate Action, LLC’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED in part. Monetary
sanctions are awarded against Defendant Patricia Schwartz and is ordered to
appear for deposition.   
 
Plaintiff
Ultimate Action, LLC’s Motions to Compel Deposition Answers from Esteban Felix
and Lin S. Yit are GRANTED as to all questions at issue save those related to
the amount of Insignia’s profits, Patricia Schwartz’s pericarditis, and the
subject matter of deponents’ communications with their counsel. Sanctions are awarded
in favor of Plaintiff.
 
Defendant
Patricia Schwartz’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas to Eisenhower Desert
Cardiology Center and Samy M. Sharobeem, M.D. is GRANTED. Sanctions are DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
I.                  
MOTION
FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
The court may impose
terminating sanctions, include an order striking pleadings, and order
dismissing an action, or an order rendering judgment by default against a
party, for conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.030.) This conduct include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
Ultimate discovery
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules. 
(Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.)  Dismissal
is a drastic measure, and terminating sanctions should only be ordered when
there has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a
less severe sanction would not be effective. 
(Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1315, 1326.)  “[A] penalty as severe as
dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with discovery is
caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad faith.”  (Brown
v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.)
Plaintiff Ultimate
Action, LLC (Plaintiff) moves for terminating sanctions against apparently all
Defendants, based on Defendant Patricia Schwartz’s failure to appear for
deposition as ordered on January 18, 2024.
Plaintiff presents the
following facts. This court’s ruling of November 27, 2023, directed that the
depositions of Defendants Scott and Patricia Schwartz were to be scheduled
between January 11 and 18, 2024. (See 11/27/23 Ruling.) Scott and
Patricia Schwartz’s deposition dates were accordingly scheduled, as of December
1, 2023, for January 17 and 18, 2024. (White Decl. ¶ 19.) When Plaintiff on
January 16, 2024, sent emails seeking to confirm that depositions would go
forward as scheduled, Defendants’ counsel responded that Scott Schwartz’s
deposition would go forward, but that “Patricia was recently hospitalized and
will be unable to attend her deposition on Thursday.” (White Decl. Exh. 8.)
Defendant sent a note dated January 12, 2024, from Dr. Ali Naderi, of the
Eisenhower Desert Cardiology Center, stating that “Ms. Schwartz is a patient of
our practice. She’s currently being actively treated and needs to have regular
follow-up with our office. It is of high importance that she is not under
physical or emotional stress during this time.” (White Decl. Exh. 9.)
Defendant’s counsel offered to continue the trial date and associated deadlines
“to allow a later deposition date of Patricia.” (White Decl. Exh. 10.) 
Scott Schwartz’s
deposition went forward on January 17, 2024, but Patricia Schwartz’s did not.
(White Decl. ¶ 25.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that no deposition dates were
offered for Patricia’s deposition as of the filing of the motion, but that she
has since offered to appear at mediation on February 8, 2024, and was present
for the mid-December deposition of Ted Fox, which lasted all day. (White Decl.
¶ 26.) On January 22, 2024, Defendant mailed Plaintiff another letter, this
time from Patricia Schwartz’s primary care physician, Dr. Samy Sharobeem,
stating that Patricia Schwartz suffered from “acute pericarditis” and “is
medically advised to avoid both physical and emotion stressors that may
exacerbate her condition.” (Opposition Exh. 6.)Plaintiff on January 25, 2024,
served subpoenas on Eisenhower Desert Cardiology Center and Sharobeem, seeking
documents related to Schwartz’s pericarditis. (Opposition Exh. 7, 8.) 
On February 21, 2024,
after the present motion was filed, this court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application to shorten the time for hearing and briefing on the present motion,
Defendant’s motion to quash the subpoenas, and Plaintiff’s motions to compel
deposition answers, with opposition materials due on March 4 and replies due on
March 6, 2024. (See 2/21/24 Order.) 
On February 26, 2024,
Schwartz’s counsel informed Plaintiff that Patricia Schwartz could appear
remotely for deposition on March 7 and 8, the day of or the day after the
hearing date scheduled for these motions. (Tirtasaputra Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 10.)
Plaintiff’s counsel responded that the dates were unavailable, as March 7 was
the date of hearing on these motions, and March 8 was already occupied for
another deposition. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also stated that Schwartz “does
not have a right to have her deposition taken remotely,” and did not agree to
any remote deposition. (Ibid.) When Defendant responded that a remote
deposition was a reasonable accommodation for her medical condition, and
further stated that March 8 was “her only available date,” Plaintiff responded
that they did not agree to a remote deposition, and asked why March 8 was her
only available date. (Ibid.) Defendant responded that Patricia Schwartz
could be available on March 6, 7, or 8. (Ibid.) When Plaintiff protested
that these dates were already occupied by motion practice or another
deposition, Defendant responded that the hearing date on March 7 was only in
the morning, and “In any case, Patricia can be deposed in person on the 8th
if you’re willing to move Mr. McBride’s deposition.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff
declined the offer, stating that Patricia Schwartz’s changing availability and
need for remote deposition belied her claim to be unavailable, and accused
Plaintiff at length of using illness as a pretext to frustrate Plaintiff’s
right to discovery. (Ibid.)
Patricia Schwartz in
opposition presents her declaration, in which she states:
At the time
my deposition was scheduled, I felt prepared to sit for it. However, I was
rushed to the emergency room on two occasions due to my sudden onset of acute
pericarditis symptoms of sharp chest pain, shortness of breath, cough, and
pains in my back and left shoulder. Following my hospital trips, I was advised
that it would take a couple months until my acute systems cleared and that, in
the meantime, I must avoid stressful activities as such activities would likely
worsen my symptoms and counteract the positive effects of my treatment.
Accordingly it was concluded that it was best for my health to cancel and
reschedule my deposition to a date after my treatment is complete.
(Schwartz Decl. ¶ 4.)
Schwartz states, “In order to not prolong this matter anymore, and against the
advice of my doctors, I agreed to be deposed . . . in person.” (Schwartz Decl.
¶ 8.)
Plaintiff’s showing is
persuasive in part. Patricia Schwartz is an under a court order to appear for
deposition by a certain date, and Plaintiff has shown that she has failed to
appear as ordered. Just prior to her scheduled deposition, her counsel
represented that she was “recently hospitalized” (White Decl. Exh. 8), but
Schwartz in her declaration provides no indication as to when her trips to the
emergency room occurred. Indeed, Scott Schwartz testified at his January 17,
2024 deposition that he had known of Patricia’s condition for six to twelve
months prior.(White Decl. Exh. 5 at pp. 22–23.) The condition was not brought
to the court’s attention when it ordered the deposition to take place.
It is unclear why these
matters are framed so evasively in Defendant’s opposition. Patricia’s
declaration in support of her motion to quash, filed February 2, 2024, frames
the facts in a more straightforward manner: Patricia Schwartz suffers from
pericarditis, which causes acute chest pain, and for which she is currently
undergoing treatment. (2/2/2024 Schwartz Decl. ¶¶  2–3.) Although she believed she was ready for
deposition, “in the days leading up to the deposition and in anticipation of
the same, I experienced higher than usual stress, which, in turn, exacerbated
my heart condition and caused worsening symptoms.” (Id. at ¶ 6.) She
initially withheld information concerning the precise nature of her condition
because she considered it private information. (Id. at ¶¶ 9–10.)
This reticence was error.
Patricia Schwartz was under a court order to appear for deposition. If she
required accommodations in the conduct of that deposition, she ought to have
disclosed the same and, if necessary, sought a protective order from the court.
She instead unilaterally cancelled the deposition with no indication as to when
or how it could safely resume, only to propose one accommodation (that the
deposition be taken remotely) after Plaintiff had moved for sanctions, an
accommodation that Schwartz now appears ready to abandon. (Schwartz Decl. ¶ 8.)

Sanctions are therefore
appropriate, though not in the drastic form that Plaintiff seeks. The threat of
sanctions evidently caused Schwartz to offer limited dates of deposition after
the present motion was filed. More limited sanctions may therefore curb any
further discovery abuses. Moreover, any prejudice that Plaintiff suffers by a
belated deposition so close to the trial date may be ameliorated by continuing
trial. Though such an order is not desirable, it is preferable to the loss of
an opportunity to try the case on the merits. (See Weitz v. Yankosky
(1966) 63 Cal.2d 849, 854 [“It is the policy of the law to favor, wherever
possible, a hearing on the merits”].) 
Plaintiff seeks $35,160.00 in sanctions, representing 23
hours ($15,525) of attorney work preparing and defending the motion, five hours
to bring an ex parte application to shorten time for hearing ($3,375), four
hours preparing for the now-missed deposition ($2,700), and 20 hours ($13,500)
preparing for trial, which Plaintiff anticipates may be made irrelevant
depending on the timing and resolution of this motion, at an hourly rate of
$675 per hour. (White Decl. ¶ 29.) 
The motion for sanctions is GRANTED in part. Monetary
sanctions are awarded against Defendant Patricia Schwartz in the amount of $1,500.
Patricia Schwartz is directed to appear for deposition before 3/18/24.
II.               
MOTION TO QUASH
SUBPOENAS
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A party may bring a motion under this section.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Defendant Patricia Schwartz moves to quash
two deposition subpoenas issued by Plaintiff against Defendant’s physicians
Eisenhower Medical Center and Samy Sharobeem on January 25, 2024. These
subpoenas seek all documents and communications concerning Patricia Schwartz’s
pericarditis from January 1, 2023 to the present. (Motion Exhs. 1, 2.)
Defendant argues that her pericarditis is relevant only to why she could not
attend the deposition previously ordered by the court, not to any underlying
issue in the case. (Motion at pp. 6–9.)
 
The
California Constitution protects an individual’s right to privacy. (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1013.) The right to privacy extends to medical records. (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38
Cal.4th 1177, 1198.) Communications between patients and their physicians or
psychotherapists are also protected by statutory privileges. (Evid. Code §§ 994
[physician-patient], 1014 [psychotherapist-patient].)
None
of these protections or privileges is absolute. Physician-patient privilege
does not exist if the communication sought is “relevant to an issue concerning
the condition of the patient if such issue has been tendered by . . . the
patient.” (Evid. Code § 996, subd. (a).) In the constitutional privacy context,
“[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)
Defendant’s
argument is persuasive. Her health is relevant to no underlying issue in the
case, but only to her ability to attend the scheduled deposition. Given the
obvious gravity of the privacy interest involved, and the ancillary nature of
the issue for which Defendant’s condition has only arguably been tendered, the
discovery sought is not worth the substantial invasion of privacy contemplated.
The
motion to quash is GRANTED. 
Defendant
seeks $11,864.50 in sanctions, representing 20 hours of attorney work at $555
per hour, plus 1.1 hours at $695 per hour. (Tirtasaputra Decl. ¶¶ 13–15.) Such
sanctions are awardable in the court’s discretion under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1987.2, subd. (a). Sanctions are DENIED. 
III.            
MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION ANSWERS
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (a).) The party moving for an order
compelling third-party compliance with a deposition subpoena must make a
fact-specific showing of good cause for the request. (See Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 223–24.)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel answers to deposition questions
from third parties Esteban Felix and Lin S. Yit, co-owners of Defendant
Insignia PMG. Plaintiff contends that Insignia’s counsel interposed meritless
objections during the depositions of these two witnesses, and instructed them
not to answer relevant questions concerning Plaintiff’s allegations that
Insignia is an alter ego of the Schwartz defendants and the intermediary for
impermissible payments to themselves in the form of management fees. (SAC ¶¶
14, 28.)
 
Deponents should generally “not be
prevented by counsel from answering a question unless it pertains to privileged
matters or deposing counsel's conduct has reached a stage where suspension is
warranted.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015.) “It is generally improper . . . for counsel to
instruct a witness not to answer on grounds other than privilege, privacy,
trade secrets or other matters statutorily or constitutionally exempt from
discovery.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group
2023) Ch. 8E-12 [8:695].)
Certain
of Insignia’s objections to the questions offered to Felix and Yit were appropriate,
and no further response is warranted. Plaintiff at one point asked Lin Yit if
she had gone over depositions preparations with her attorney, which concerned
straightforwardly privileged matters, i.e. the subject of confidential
communications between attorney and client. (Evid. Code § 952.) The motion
is DENIED as to this question. 
 
Moreover,
Civil Code § 3295 states that “[n]o pretrial discovery by the plaintiff shall
be permitted with respect to” evidence of a defendant’s profits gained by
virtue of wrongful conduct or the financial condition of the defendant unless
the court grants a motion made by the plaintiff showing a substantial probability
that they will prevail on their punitive damages claim. (Civ. Code § 3295,
subd. (c).) Plaintiff’s questions concerning Insignia’s “profits . . .
year-over-year” and whether Insignia has “made a healthy profit” go directly to
its financial condition under Civil Code § 3295. (Separate Statement at pp.
16–17.)
 
Plaintiff argues that these questions relate to its alter
ego allegations against Insignia. This is partly correct. “[I]nformation as to the financial condition
of a corporate defendant is admissible and discoverable before trial in an
action involving an alter ego issue.” (Doak v. Superior
Court for Los Angeles County (1968) 257 Cal.App.2d 825, 835, fn. 8.)
Because such evidence goes to underlying liability rather than to the case for
punitive damages, Civil Code § 3295 does not forbid discovery into it. (See
Rawnsley v. Superior Court (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 86, 91 [holding
that trial court’s denial of discovery for financial information relevant to
the underlying case was abuse of discretion because Civil Code § 3295 did not
apply].) However, the justification for inquiries directly concerning the
amount of Insignia’s profits have little to do with the factors underlying
alter ego liability, and rather relate, as Plaintiff acknowledges, “to the
general financial performance of insignia.” (Separate Statement at p. 18.)
Although Plaintiff argues that this discovery also relates to how Insignia
“allocates and distributes” its profits, these questions did not ask concerning
how profits were allocated.
 
Certain other objections
are proper based on privacy, without any countervailing good cause to justify a
further response. “In determining whether disclosure is required
[against a privacy objection], the court must indulge in a ‘careful balancing’
of the right of a civil litigant to discover relevant facts, on the one hand,
and the right of the third parties to maintain reasonable privacy regarding
their sensitive personal affairs, on the other. The court must consider the
purpose of the information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the
affected persons and parties, the nature of the objections urged by the party
resisting disclosure and availability of alternative, less intrusive means for
obtaining the requested information. Based on an application of these factors,
the more sensitive the nature of the personal information that is sought to be
discovered, the more substantial the showing of the need for the discovery that
will be required before disclosure will be permitted.” (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004, internal
citations omitted.)
 
These proper privacy
objections include questions related to the deponents’ knowledge of Patricia
Schwartz’s pericarditis, and questions concerning whether income from Insignia
was the only source of income for the deponents. Parties possess a limited
right to privacy in their financial affairs. (Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656.) The deponents here are not
parties to this dispute, and their sources of income beyond those derived from
the party-defendant (Insignia) is of scant relevance. Questions related to
Schwartz’s pericarditis, as discussed in the motion to quash, implicate
concerns for medical privacy and are of little relevance to the underlying
case.
 
The remaining objections — indeed, the vast majority —
furnished no basis to instruct the deponents not to answer, and further
responses are properly compelled. Insignia argues that Plaintiff questioned
Felix concerning his “private romantic life.” (Opposition at p. 4.) Plaintiff
actually asked Felix — who is married to Yit, and who founded Insignia with her
— whether he and Yit were together when they founded Insignia. (Separate
Statement at pp. 5–6.) Plaintiff asked no questions concerning their “sexual relations.”
(Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 835.)
Other objections based on attorney-client privilege were
unsupported. These objections were not addressed to confidential
communications, but the date on which communications occurred. “The privilege
does not protect independent facts related to a communication; that a
communication took place, and the time, date and participants in the
communication.” (2,022 Ranch v. Superior Court (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th
1377, 1388, internal quotation marks omitted.) 
The other privacy objections were also of little merit. Insignia
interposed privacy objections to questions ranging from the address of the
deponent, their capital contributions to Insignia, their share of ownership in
the company, and other questions related to its corporate management. It is,
however, Insignia’s burden to establish both a reasonable expectation of
privacy and the prospect of a serious intrusion into that interest before a
privacy objection may be entertained. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Defendant establishes no such interest or intrusion as to
these remaining matters, noting only that the questions concern finances in
some way, and citing to authority concerning much more sensitive materials,
such as corporate trade secrets or consumer bank records. (See Hofmann Corp.
v. Superior Court (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 357, 363 [concerning secret
customer lists]; Valley Bank, supra, 15 Cal.3d 652 [bank
records].) The questions here, however, relate to the amounts Insignia’s owners
invested in the company, their ownership shares obtained thereby, and the
manner by which profits were allocated among them. Given the minimal showing
here, any privacy interest or intrusion resulting from these questions, whether
belonging to Insignia or its owners, is de minimis, and in any event overborne
by Plaintiff’s interest in obtaining discovery concerning the facts of this
case and Insignia’s potential alter ego liability. The same is true of
questions related to the number of Insignia’s clients or properties.
Insignia argues that Plaintiff’s alter ego theory is
infirm. (Opposition at p. 4.) But Insignia remains a party to this case, and
has neither sought nor obtained any dispositive relief by demurrer or motion
for summary judgment. Insignia’s objection to its inclusion in this lawsuit
furnishes no basis for instructing the deponents not to answer relevant
questions at deposition.
Insignia argues that any matters ordered disclosed pursuant
to this motion ought to be designated “for attorney’s eyes only” pursuant to
the protective order entered in this matter. (Opposition at p. 8.) Insignia and
the deponents have made no showing that would justify such an order.
Insignia finally argues that Plaintiff failed to adequately
meet and confer. (Opposition at pp. 9–10.) But Insignia acknowledges that that
the parties held a 90 minute conference on these very issues before the motion
was filed. (Opposition at pp. 9–10.) The objection is not based on any failure
to confer, but rather upon Plaintiff’s cutting off further conference efforts
when a tentative settlement had been reached. (Ibid.) Given the
opposition here, however, no such resolution to this dispute has been reached. 
The motions are therefore GRANTED as to all questions at
issue save those related to the amount of Insignia’s profits, Patricia
Schwartz’s pericarditis, and the subject matter of deponents’ communications
with their counsel.
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)
Plaintiff seeks $12,680.25 in sanctions connected with the
Felix motion, representing 14 hours preparing and defending the motion at $675
per hour, $3,845.25 for the deposition, and a $60 filing fee. (White Decl. ¶
12.) Plaintiff seeks $12,193.40 in connection with the Lin Yit motion,
representing another 14 hours to prepare and defend the motion $3,358 for the
deposition, and a $60 filing fee. (White Decl. ¶ 10.) These sanctions are to be
imposed against the third party deponents and/or their counsel. (White Decl. ¶
10.)
Sanctions are awarded against deponents and their counsel
in the amount of $3,000. 