  Case Number:  21STCV02938    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF 
Hearing Date: 7/31/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV02938 Hedyeh Hamedanizadeh vs. City of Los Angeles, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Glenoaks Business Park 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF IS GRANTED
 
Background
On January 25, 2021,
Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants, including Defendant Glen Oaks.
Plaintiff's counsel served discovery, including special interrogatories and
requests for admission to Defendant, and filed motions to compel responses on
December 14, 2023, with hearing dates scheduled for January 24, 2024, and
January 25, 2024. At the beginning of January 2024, Defendant’s counsel became
ill and was hospitalized from January 4, 2024, to February 2024, with medical
instructions to remain off work until February 7, 2024. Consequently, during
the hearing on the requests for admission, counsel was bedridden, and
Defendant's counsel’s staff informed him that the motion was to compel
responses to the requests for admission, not to deem them admitted. Based on
this, Counsel instructed his staff to submit to the ruling, believing that the
requests for admission would be ordered responded to, not deemed admitted.
However, counsel was mistaken, and on January 25, 2024, the Court deemed
Plaintiff’s RFAs admitted. On February 21, 2024, Defendant served the responses
to the requests for admission at issue. Defendant now moves the Court for
relief, citing his and his counsel’s inadvertence as the basis.
Legal Standard
A party may withdraw or
amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only on leave of
court granted after notice to all parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.300, subd.
(a).) The court may permit the withdrawal only if it determines the admission
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and the party
who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining
that party’s action or defense on the merits.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.300, subd. (b).) The “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” under
CCP § 2033.300 have similar meanings as those words used in CCP § 473(b). (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1419.) 
“Because the law
strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying
section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief.
Accordingly, the court's discretion to deny a motion under the statute is
limited to circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or¿neglect
was inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would
not substantially prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining
that party's action or defense on the merits.” (New Albertsons, Inc., supra,
168 Cal.App.4th at 1420–21.) 
Discussion
The mistake or inadvertence that led to the Court deeming
the contents of Plaintiff’s requests for admission admitted was Defendant's
counsel's staff misinforming the bedridden counsel that the motion regarding
the requests for admission was to compel responses, not to deem them admitted. Consequently,
Defendant's counsel submitted to the tentative and did not appear at the
hearing to inform the Court of his health. Plaintiff does not contest that
Defendant’s counsel was bedridden during the applicable time period or that
Defense counsel’s staff misinformed counsel, prompting him to submit to the
tentative deeming the contents of Plaintiff’s RFA admitted.
Plaintiff argues that
counsel was aware of the outstanding discovery and the motions to compel prior
to becoming bedridden; however, this was not the mistake or inadvertence that
led to the admission. Although the motions were filed before counsel became
ill, for the majority of the time from the filing to the hearing, counsel was
sick and unable to participate in discovery or respond to the motion. If
Plaintiff is suggesting that Defendant's counsel would not have produced the
responses to the requests for admission even if he had not been sick, the Court
is not convinced. Defendant demonstrated a willingness to engage in discovery
after recovering from his medical emergency by submitting the responses in
question on February 21, 2024.
Plaintiff further argues
that even if Defendant's counsel had appeared, the Court would have entered the
admissions against Defendant anyway. Not so; had the Court been informed of
defense counsel's illness and been assured that responses would be provided
given a short continuance, it would have considered Defendant's request, and given
counsel's medical emergency and the Court's overriding policy to adjudicate
matters on their merits, it likely would have continued the motion to provide time
for response.
Defendant does not
dispute that responses were provided on February 21, 2024, and that the motion
was filed within six months of the Court’s order deeming the contents admitted.
However, Plaintiff argues, "The six months' limitation there provided is
simply a limitation upon the power of the court to grant any relief, regardless
of any question as to the merits of the application, or as to whether or not
the application was made within what might be held to be a reasonable time
under the circumstances. Under this statute, in addition to being made within
the six months' period, the application must be made within a 'reasonable
time,' and what constitutes a reasonable time depends upon the circumstances of
that particular case.'” (Caldwell v. Methodist Hospital (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1521, 1524.) Although the terms "mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect" under California Code of Civil Procedure Section
2033.300 are interpreted similarly to those found in Code of Civil Procedure
Section 473(b), there is no requirement for the motion under CCP 2033.230 to be
made within a reasonable time or within 6 months. Plaintiff did not cite legal
authority regarding a deadline to file a motion under CCP 2033.230, nor whether
the timing required under CCP 473 equally applies to CCP 2033.230.  In any event, the Court finds that the motion
was brought within a “reasonable” time under the circumstances.
The
Court finds that the admission was entered against Defendant as a result of his
and his staff’s inadvertence and deems this to be excusable.  Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for relief from
the deemed admissions is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 