 Case Number:  22STCV35755    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, FORM INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTIONS AND TO DEEM
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS¿ 
Hearing Date: 7/31/24¿¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV35755 CLIFTON JOHNSON
vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Alliance Chemical 
Responding Party: Unopposed¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, FORM INTERROGATORIES, REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION AND TO
DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED¿ 
¿ 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
Requests for Production and
Interrogatories¿ 
¿ 
A defendant may make a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at any time.
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd.
(a).) A plaintiff may make a demand for production of documents and propound
interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the service of
the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed,
whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) A plaintiff may make a demand for
production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at
any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party
may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the
subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official form
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
The party whom the request is
propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a
demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and
confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a)
- (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)¿ 
¿ 
If a party fails to timely respond
to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request
is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿The party propounding the
discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a
motion to compel initial discovery responses does not have any meet and confer
requirements.¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)¿ 
¿ 
Request for Admissions¿ 
¿ 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿CCP § 2033.250(a). 
¿ 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
Discussion
On April 23, 2024,
Defendant Alliance served initial written discovery to Plaintiff that included
Requests for Admission, Set One; Form Interrogatories, Set One; Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Requests for Production, Set One. Plaintiff failed
to serve initial responses by the statutory deadline. on June 10, 2024,
Defendant emailed Plaintiff’s counsel informing him that the response deadline
had passed and requesting responses without objections no later than June 13,
2024. As of the date of this filing, Plaintiff’s counsel has not responded to
Defendant’s communication or provide the discovery responses at issue.  Defendant now moves the court to compel
initial responses and deem the content of its RFA, Set One, admitted. No
opposition was filed.
It is undisputed that
the initial discovery responses at issue were not provided by the statutory
deadline. No opposition or any other documents were filed indicating that the
initial responses were provided prior to the hearing. Thus, the Court grants the
present motions. Defendant’s Requests for Admissions, Set One are deemed
admitted. The Court further orders Plaintiff to provide complete and verified
responses to Defendant’s Requests for Productions, Set One, Form
Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, without
objections within 30 days of today. 
             Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $1035.00 per motion. Sanctions are
mandatory when a party’s non-response forces the opposing party to file motions
to compel or deem admitted. The Court does not find Plaintiff to have acted
with substantial justification. Because of the simplicity and overlap of the
motions, the Court awards a lesser amount in sanctions than requested. The
Court grants sanctions in the amount of $2000. The Court orders Plaintiff and
his counsel, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $2000 to Defendant
within 30 days of today’s date. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 