  Case Number:  23TRCV013238    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
KAREN
  MCMANUS, 


 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03238




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING




 
FORD
  MOTOR COMPANY, et al.,


 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 23, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Ford Motor Co. and Auto Nation Ford Valencia
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Karen McManus
Demurrer
to Complaint
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as
to the Fifth and Sixth causes of action in the complaint.  Defendants are ordered to file answers within
20 days. 
BACKGROUND
On October
2, 2023, plaintiff Karen McManus filed a complaint against Ford Motor Company
and Auto Nation Ford Valencia for (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), (4) breach
of the implied warranty of merchantability, (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment,
and (6) negligent repair.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Ford Motor Company demurs to the 5th cause of action for fraudulent inducement
- concealment on the ground that it fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action.  Defendant
Auto Nation Ford Valencia demurs to the 6th cause of action for
negligent repair on the ground that it fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action.
The complaint
alleges that on October 28, 2019, plaintiff entered into a warranty contract
with defendant Ford regarding a 2019 Ford Ranger, which was manufactured and/or
distributed by defendant Ford. 
Complaint, ¶9.  The warranty
contract contained various warranties, including the bumper-bumper warranty,
powertrain warranty, and emission warrant. 
Id., ¶10.  Prior to plaintiff
purchasing the vehicle, defendant Ford knew that vehicles equipped with the
same 10-speed transmission as the vehicle suffered one or more defects that can
cause the vehicles and their 10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation
and/or delay acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking; shuddering;
and/or juddering (“Transmission Defect”). 
Id., ¶25.  Defendant acquired this
knowledge prior to plaintiff purchasing the vehicle through various sources of
information, including pre-production testing, pre-production design failure
mode and analysis data, production failure mode and analysis data, early
consumer complaints made exclusively to Ford’s network of dealers and directly
to Ford, aggregate warranty data complied from Ford’s network of dealers,
testing conducted by Ford in response to consumer complaints, and repair orders
and parts data received by Ford from Ford’s network of dealers.  Id., ¶26. 
Defendant subsequently issued technical service bulletins (“TSBs”)
concerning the Transmission Defect.  Id.,
¶27.  On March 2, 2018, Defendant issued
TSB 18-2079, which covers the same type of transmission in the subject
vehicle.  Id., ¶28.  On September 7, 2018, defendant issued TSB
18-2274 regarding same type of transmission. 
Id., ¶30.  On September 27, 2021,
defendant issued TSB 21-2315 regarding same type of transmission.  Id., ¶32. 
However, they fail to fix the transmission defects which affects the
subject vehicle.  Id., 34.  Plaintiff would not have purchased the subject
vehicle, or would have paid less for it, had plaintiff known of the
Transmission Defect, given the unsafe nature of the defect.  Plaintiff unknowingly exposed themselves to
the risk of accident, injury, and/or liability to others as a result of the
nature of the Transmission Defect, which can lead to hesitation, loss of power,
and other shifting issues while driving at highway speeds.  Id., ¶35.
 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Inducement - Concealment
“’The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact.’”  Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 124, 162 (citation
omitted).  “One who willfully deceives
another with intent to induce him to alter his position to his injury or risk,
is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.”  Civil Code §1709.
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
Rules of specifically pleading how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated,
is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment.  See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1356, 1384.  The specificity requirement
of fraud is “relaxed when it is apparent from the allegations that the
defendant necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts.”  Quelimane Co. v. Steward Title Guaranty
Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 27.
The complaint alleges that plaintiff
purchased the vehicle as manufactured with defendant’s 10-speed automatic
transmission.  Complaint, ¶57.  Defendant committed fraud by allowing the
subject vehicle to be sold to plaintiff without disclosing that the subject
vehicle and its transmission was defective and susceptible to sudden and
premature failure.  Id., ¶58.  Prior to plaintiff acquiring the vehicle,
plaintiff was well aware and knew that the transmission installed in the
vehicle was defective but failed to disclose this fact to plaintiff at the time
of sale and thereafter.  Id., ¶59.  Specifically, Ford knew that vehicles
equipped with the same 10-speed transmission as the vehicle suffered from one
or more defects that can cause the vehicles and their 10-speed transmissions to
experience hesitation and/or delayed acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting;
jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering. 
These conditions present a safety hazard and are unreasonably dangerous
to consumers because they can suddenly and unexpectedly affect the driver’s
ability to control the vehicle’s speed, acceleration, deceleration, and/or
overall responsiveness of the vehicle in various driving conditions.  Id., ¶60. 
Ford acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect prior to
plaintiff acquiring the subject vehicle. 
Id., ¶61.  Defendant knew about
the Transmission Defect and its safety risks but nevertheless concealed and
failed to disclose the defective nature of the vehicle and its transmission to
plaintiff at the time of sale.  Had
plaintiff known, they would not have purchased the subject vehicle.  Id., ¶62. 
Defendant knew that the vehicle and its transmission suffered from an
inherent defect, was defective, would fail prematurely, and was not suitable
for its intended use.  Id., ¶63.  Defendant was under a duty to plaintiff to
disclose the defective nature, its safety consequences, and/or the associated
repair costs.  Id., ¶64.  Plaintiff only became suspicious that the
vehicle suffered from the transmission defect after presenting the vehicle to
defendant for a reasonable number of repair attempts to no avail.  Id., ¶68. 
Plaintiff has suffered and will continue to suffer actual damages.  Id., ¶69. 
Plaintiff was harmed by purchasing a vehicle that plaintiff would not
have leased and/or purchased had plaintiff known the true facts about the
Transmission Defect.  Plaintiff
unknowingly exposed themselves to the risk of liability, accident, and
injury.  Id., ¶70.
Defendant Ford argues that
plaintiff fails to plead sufficient facts to support the elements and to plead with
the requisite specificity.  Ford also
contends that the claim is barred by the economic loss rule but acknowledges
that that the court in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal. App. 4th 828, held otherwise, that the economic loss rule does
not bar fraudulent inducement claims, noting that the California Supreme Court
granted a petition for review of that case.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that she sufficiently alleged the elements, including a direct contractual,
transactional relationship, which gives rise to a duty to disclose.  Plaintiff also argues that the economic loss
rule does not apply, citing to Dhital.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient to support the elements at the pleading stage for
fraudulent concealment.  Plaintiff
alleges that defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact.  See Complaint, ¶¶58-60, 62.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant had a duty
to disclose the fact.  See id., ¶64.  See also OCM Principal Opportunities Fund,
L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835,
859 (“Under California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not
only to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor
has reason to expect that the item will be resold.”);  Khan v. Shiley Inc. (1990) 217 Cal.
App. 3d 848, 858 (“[A] manufacturer of a product may be liable for fraud when
it conceals material product information from potential users.”).  Plaintiff alleges that defendant knowingly
and intentionally concealed the material fact. 
See id., ¶65.  The court can infer
that defendant placed the vehicle into the stream of commerce, presumably for
profit.  Plaintiff was unaware of the
fact, and she would not have purchased the vehicle, had she known of such
defects and sustained damages.  See id.,
¶66.  Moreover, noting that the
specificity requirement is “relaxed” when defendant possesses knowledge of the
facts and reading the allegations liberally and in context, the court finds
that plaintiff has pled with sufficient particularity.
As to defendant’s argument as to
the economic loss rule, the court follows Dhital, supra, in finding that
the economic loss rule does not bar the claim for fraudulent concealment.
            Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
            Sixth Cause of Action for Negligence
Repair
            The complaint alleges that plaintiff
delivered the subject vehicle to defendant Valencia for substantial repair on
at least one occasion.  Complaint, ¶73.  Defendant owed a duty to plaintiff to use
ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation, and repair of the vehicle in
accordance with industry standards.  Id.,
¶74.  Defendant breached its duty.  Id., ¶75. 
Defendant’s negligent breach of its duties owed to plaintiff was a
proximate cause of plaintiff’s damages. 
Id., ¶76.
            Defendant Valencia argues that the
economic loss rule bars the cause of action against it.  Defendant also argues that plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged damages.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
under California law, economic loss rule does not apply to service
contracts.  See North American Chem.
Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 764, 777-81.  Plaintiff also asserts that California law
recognizes that the economic loss rule does not necessarily bar recovery in
tort when a defective product causes damage to other portions of a larger
product.  See Jimenez v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 473, 483-84.  Further, plaintiff argues that she
sufficiently alleged damages.
            The court finds that the economic
loss rule does not bar the claim against defendant.  The economic loss rule provides that, “[i]n
general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely
economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property
damage.”  Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2022) 12 Cal. 5th 905, 922.  There is, however, “a recognized exception to
the economic loss rule for consumers who contract for certain kinds of
professional services.”  Id. at
933.  Plaintiff alleges that she
delivered her car for a repair service.  
As for damages, “[n]egligence may
be alleged in general terms; that is, it is sufficient to allege an act was
negligently done without stating the particular omission which rendered it
negligent. There is no requirement that [the plaintiff] identify and allege the
precise moment of the injury, or the exact nature of the wrongful act.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747-748.  Only ultimate facts need
be alleged; evidentiary facts supporting the allegation of ultimate fact need
not be pleaded.  McKelly v. Washington
Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal. App. 4th 1457, 1469.
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
Time Records and Attorney Fees
The court notes that the demurrer
challenges only claims that are not Song-Beverly claims.  As such, the work devoted to opposing the
demurrer should be noted in plaintiff’s counsel’s time sheets as not related to
the Song-Beverly claims, as the prosecution of non-Song-Beverly claims is not
entitled to recovery of attorney’s fees under Song-Beverly and hence must be
separately noted for potential attorney’s fees claims.
ORDER
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the Fifth
and Sixth causes of action in the complaint. 
Defendants are ordered to file answers within 20 days.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.