 Case Number:  23TRCV01959    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
EMANI
  MORRIS, 


 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01959




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MARIO
  DOMINGUEZ, et al.,


 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 23,
2024
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Mario Dominguez and Lamngoc T. Nguyen
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion for Order Compelling
Plaintiff to Answer Form Interrogatories, Set No. One
(2)  
Motion for Order Compelling
Plaintiff to Answer Special Interrogatories, Set No. One
(3)  
Motion for Order Compelling
Plaintiff to Respond to Demand for Production, Set No. One 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed,
although Plaintiff’s counsel filed a statement attesting that his client is not
cooperating with him and he should not be sanctioned.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to respond without
objections to defendants’ Form and Special Interrogatories, Set No. One, within
20 days.
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’ demand for
inspection and production of documents, set one, and (2) to produce all
documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are
responsive to defendants’ demand within 20 days.
The court awards sanctions in favor
of defendants and against plaintiff in the amount of $530 in total, to be paid within
30 days.
BACKGROUND
On June 16, 2023, plaintiff Emani
Morris filed a complaint against Mario Dominguez and Lamngoc T. Nguyen for
motor vehicle negligence based on an incident on January 7, 2022 on Crenshaw
Blvd. and Redondo Beach Blvd., Gardena. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants Mario Dominguez and
Lamngoc T. Nguyen request that the court compel plaintiff to serve responses
without objections to defendants’ initial form interrogatories, special
interrogatories, and demand for inspection and production of documents. 
            Defendants contend that they served
discovery requests on October 27, 2023 and responses were due by November 28,
2023.  To date, defense counsel has not
received responses.
            The court finds that the discovery
requests were properly served, and that plaintiff failed to serve responses.
            The motions are GRANTED.
Sanctions
Under CCP §2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c). 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.”  
Defendants request sanctions
against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record, Kenneth C. Yeager, in the
amount of $760 for each motion.  The
court finds that $530 ($175/hr. x 2 hrs.; $180 filing fees) is a reasonable
amount of attorney’s fees and costs to be awarded against plaintiff only in
total for all three motions.  No sanctions
are awarded against Plaintiff’s counsel as he has sworn that he is not
receiving cooperation from Plaintiff.
ORDER
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendants’ Form and Special Interrogatories, Set No.
One, within 20 days.
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’ demand for
inspection and production of documents, set one, and (2) to produce all
documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are
responsive to defendants’ demand within 20 days.
The court awards sanctions in favor
of defendants and against plaintiff only in the amount of $530 in total, to be
paid within 30 days.
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.