 Case Number:  23TRCV02132    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
OSTRALIA
  J. MATHEWS, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02132




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COASTLINE
  REAL ESTATE ADVISORS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 23,
2024
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Coastline Real
Estate Advisors, Inc. and 4006 Emerald Owners LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Ostralia J. Mathews, et al.
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 5th and 6th causes of action and
SUSTAINED WITH TEN DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 7th cause of action.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On June 30, 2023, Ostralia J.
Mathews and O’Myah Jackson, a minor by and through her guardian, Ostralia J.
Mathews filed a complaint against Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc., South
Bay Estates, Realty Holdings PSJC LLC, and 4006 Emerald Owner LLC for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) breach
of the warranty of habitability, (4) negligence, (5) nuisance, (6) wrongful
eviction, and (7) violation of Covid-19 eviction moratorium. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP §436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP
§436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants Coastline Real Estate
Advisors, Inc. and 4006 Emerald Owner LLC demur to the 5th cause of
action for nuisance, 6th cause of action for wrongful eviction, and
7th cause of action for violation of Covid-19 eviction moratorium on
the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action and are uncertain.
The complaint alleges that plaintiffs
entered into a lease agreement with defendants on February 18, 2021.  Throughout plaintiffs’ tenancy, and
continuing up until the time that plaintiffs vacated the property, plaintiffs
were forced to endure various unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, and uninhabitable
conditions, all of which were caused by defendants’ failure to maintain the
property in a habitable and tenantable condition.  Complaint, ¶15.  The various unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy,
and uninhabitable conditions include mold throughout inside of the property,
mildew smell, bulging walls, leaking pipes, water leaks, roofing issues,
damaged drywall, plumbing issues, sewage leaks, severely damaged structural
wood, infestation of insects, low water pressure, broken lock on patio door,
holes in the interior walls, detached and inoperable electrical outlets,
inoperable dishwasher and garbage disposal and bathroom exhaust fan, lack of
electrical lighting in bathroom, failure to keep basic structural elements of
the building safe and intact, failure to maintain all common areas, failure to
keep electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating systems and elevators
operating safely, and foul urine smell. 
Id., ¶16.  Despite repeated
requests, defendants failed to effectuate the necessary repairs and/or take
necessary measures to timely render the property in a habitable condition.  Id., ¶17. 
Instead of repairing the many items in need of repair, defendants began
to serve serial notices to quit in an effort to force plaintiff form the
locale.  Id., ¶18.
Fifth Cause of Action for Nuisance
“A public nuisance is one which
affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.” 
Civil Code §3480.  “Of course, not
every interference with collective social interest constitutes a public
nuisance.  To qualify, and thus be
enjoinable, the interference must be both substantial and unreasonable.”  People Ex Rel. Gallo v. Acuna (1997)
14 Cal. 4th 1090, 1105. 
The essential factual elements of a
public nuisance claim are that (1) defendant created a condition or permitted a
condition to exist that was harmful to health, was indecent or offensive to the
senses, or was an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property; (2) that the condition
affected a substantial number of people at the same time; (3) that an ordinary
person would be reasonably annoyed or disturbed by the condition; (4) that the
seriousness of the harm outweighs the social utility of defendant’s conduct;
(5) that plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; and (6) that
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  CACI 2020.
Under this cause of action,
plaintiffs allege that the uninhabitable conditions, including mold
contamination, at the property as described above constituted a nuisance within
the meaning of Civil Code §§3479, et sec. in that these defective conditions
were injurious to the health and safety of plaintiffs and the public at large,
indecent, and offensive to the senses of plaintiffs and the public at large,
and interfered substantially with plaintiffs’ comfortable enjoyment of the
premises.  Id., ¶45.  Despite being required to abate the nuisance,
defendants failed to correct the conditions. 
Id., ¶47.
Defendants argue that this claim is
duplicative of the cause of action for negligence and, therefore, redundant,
because it relies on the same set of facts. 
“Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts
about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.”  El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC
Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 1337, 1349 (citations
omitted).  Defendant also argues that
plaintiffs fail to plead facts to establish the elements required for a public
nuisance claim.  Rather, defendants
contend, plaintiffs only allege facts as to plaintiffs’ injuries and the
uninhabitable conditions are alleged to only have existed in plaintiffs’ unit
and therefore could not have affected a substantial number of people at the
same time. 
In opposition, plaintiffs only
reiterate the allegations at paras. 14-19 and make no other arguments.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for nuisance,
whether it be public or private nuisance. 
Plaintiffs have not alleged any facts to support that the conditions
affected a substantial number of people at the same time.  Further, the allegations are based on the
same facts as the 4th cause of action for negligence and thus are
duplicative.  “This court has recognized
[that a cause of action that appears to be duplicative of another cause of
action] [is] a basis for sustaining a demurrer.” Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 268,
290, citing to Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal. App. 3d
494, 501 (finding demurrer was properly sustained without leave to amend as to
cause of action that contained allegations of other causes and “thus added
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.”).
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Sixth Cause of Action for Wrongful
Eviction (violation of Civil Code §1947.10)
Under this cause of action,
plaintiffs incorporate the prior allegations and allege that they have
sustained actual damages.  Complaint, ¶51.
Defendants contend that plaintiffs
fail to allege any facts which support a claim under Civil Code §1947.10, which
is related to an eviction based on the owner’s intention to occupy a rent
controlled unit.
Further, the Court takes judicial
notice of the requested records from 4006 Emerald Owner, LLC v. Matthews, Case
No 22IWUD00621 which reveal that a judgment evicting Plaintiff Ostralia
Matthews was entered in favor of 4006 Emerald Owner, LLC.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as plaintiffs have not alleged wrongful eviction based
upon Civil Code §1947.10 and plaintiffs have not shown how they can amend.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Seventh Cause of Action for
Violation of Covid-19 Rules
Under this cause of action,
plaintiffs allege that they leased the property from defendants.  Complaint, ¶54.  In violation of the LA County Board of
Supervisors Covid-19 Protection Resolution, defendants served plaintiffs with
repeated improper notices.  Id., ¶55.  As a result, plaintiffs sustained actual
damages.  Id., ¶56.
Defendants argue that plaintiffs
have not alleged any facts that defendants initiated or pursued an eviction of
plaintiffs, only that plaintiffs were served with “improper notices.”  Defendants also argue that plaintiffs have
not alleged the date of the actual eviction, or the applicable rule, law, or
code, how it was violated, when it was violated, or what damages resulted.  Defendants request that the court take
judicial notice of unlawful detainer case wherein plaintiffs filed an answer in
which they raised the Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act as an affirmative defense and
the court entered judgment against plaintiffs and in favor of defendant for
possession of the subject property.
The court finds that the
allegations are conclusory and vague, and the allegations are insufficient to
support a cause of action based on statute as they are not specifically pled.  It is unclear what Plaintiff is intending to
allege.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Motion to Strike
Defendants request that the court
strike punitive damages at paras. 30, 36, 49, 52, and 58 and prayer for
statutory damages at no. 4, punitive damages at no. 5, and treble damages at
no. 6.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in College
Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that
are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal
issued a peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking
plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking
punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any
factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice”).
A tenant may state a cause of
action in tort against his landlord for damages resulting from a breach of the
implied warranty of habitability.”  Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 918-19; see also Smith v.
David (1981) 120 Cal. App. 3d 101, 112 n.3 (a tenant “may seek general and
punitive damages for . . . breach of warranty [of habitability]”).  The court in Stoiber found that
plaintiff stated sufficient facts to support exemplary damages when she “alleged
that defendant had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions . . . [and] alleged
defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance, . . . acted with full knowledge of
the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’”  Stoiber, supra, at 920 (citation
omitted). 
Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as they
are vague and conclusory.  Defendants
also contend that the allegations are insufficient to support any statutory or
treble damages.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations are conclusory and do not show oppression, fraud, or malice.  Further, there is no cause of action that
supports statutory or treble damages.
The motion is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Fifth and Sixth causes of action.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TEN
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Seventh cause of action.   
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.