  Case Number:  24TRCV01561    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
DARIUS
  HOOSMAN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01561




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted 




 
MUHAMAD
  AWADALLAH


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
24, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant Muhamad Awadallah
 
Responding Party:      None
 
HEARING: Motion to
Quash Service of Summons
            
The
Court considered the moving papers.
 
RULING
            The Court grants the
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
 
BACKGROUND
            On
September 23, 2024, Plaintiff Darius Hoosman filed the Complaint against
Defendant Muhamad
Awadallah, alleging causes of action
for breach of contract and common counts arising from Defendant alleging having
Plaintiff falsely arrested.
            
Defendant has not filed an answer.
            
On September 23, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion
to Quash Service of Summons.
 
No opposition has been filed.
                        
LEGAL STANDARD
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a).)  
 
In California, courts are authorized to
“exercise jurisdiction over parties on any basis not inconsistent with the
Constitution of [California] or the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.10.) “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) The
extent to which a California court may exercise jurisdiction over a defendant
depends on the nature and quality of that defendant’s contacts with the state.
(Ibid.)
 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or
specific. (Vons Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
“The nature and the quality of the defendant’s contacts determine whether
jurisdiction, if exercised, is general or specific. General jurisdiction exists
when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are
substantial, continuous, and systematic.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) Where the contacts
are sufficiently substantial, continuous, and systematic, it is not necessary
that the cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business
relationship to the forum. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
However, “contacts that are random, fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to
the minimum level, and general jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these
circumstances.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd., supra, 130
Cal.App.4th at p. 795.) 
 
If a defendant’s contacts with the forum state
are not substantial, continuous, and systematic, the defendant may be subject
to specific jurisdiction. “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if: (1) ‘the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits’ [citation]; (2) ‘the “controversy is
related to or ‘arises out of’ [the] defendant's contacts with the forum”’
[citations]; and (3) ‘“the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with ‘fair play and substantial justice.’” ‘[Citations.]” (Pavlovich v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
When a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449.) 
 
“[W]hen the facts giving rise to jurisdiction
are conflicting, the trial court’s factual determinations are reviewed for
substantial evidence . . . . Even then, we review independently the trial
court's conclusions as to the legal significance of the facts . . . . When the
jurisdictional facts are not in dispute, whether the defendant is subject to
personal jurisdiction is purely a legal question that we review de novo.” (F.
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p. 794; accord
Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218, 228.)
 
Evidence consisting of “vague assertions of
ultimate fact rather than specific evidentiary facts” is insufficient to meet
the burden to show minimum contacts. (Paneno v. Centres for Academic
Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1447, 1454.)
 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant argues that
the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over Defendant because Plaintiff
allegedly improperly named Defendant in “an action that concerns a contractual
relationship between two corporate entities, Chores LLC and Lion Heart Delivery
LLC.” (Motion to Quash p. 4.) Defendant further argues that Defendant and
Plaintiff are not in privity of contract which is required to establish the
right to enforce a contract. (Salsman v. Schimmels (1967) 256 Cal. App.2d 366.)
 
When a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449.) 
 
Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition and, thus, has not met their burden of proof. Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
            
            
 
             