 Case Number:  22CHCV01072    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/24/24
Case #22CHCV01072
 
DEMURRER TO THE
THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 11/6/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant California Automobile Insurance
Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Clean Initiative LLC
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire Third Amended Complaint: 
            1.  Breach of Contract
            2.  Tortious Bad Faith;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing

 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend as to the 1st cause of action and without leave to
amend as to the 2nd cause of action. 

 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of services Plaintiff Clean
Initiative LLC (Plaintiff) performed for Defendant California Automobile
Insurance Company’s (Defendant) insured Aaron Gbewonyo (Policy Holder).  
 
Plaintiff is in the business of providing inspection and,
where necessary, repairs to the roofs of real property. (Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) ¶2).  At the request of the
Policy Holder, Plaintiff conducted a roof inspection at the Policy Holder’s home
located at 10137 Amigo Avenue, Northridge, California (Insured Property).  Id.  Plaintiff alleges that it identified roof
damage which required/requires repair so as to maintain the integrity, safety
and/or durability of the roof.  Id.  
 
Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges it received an Assignment
of Insurance Benefits (AOB) from the Policy Holder of Defendant’s insurance
policy which covered the Insured Property and the damages sustained.  (TAC ¶2). 
The AOB specifically provides: 
 
“Client hereby assigns any and all
insurance rights and proceeds under my property insurance policy up to the
amount of the services provided by Service Provider Specialty. Client assigns
all legal rights to recover any and all insurance proceeds owed by my insurance
company regarding the loss including but not limited to the right to bring
appropriate legal action up to the amount owed for the services rendered by
Service Provider. Client also hereby directs, authorizes and unequivocally
instructs direct payment of any benefit or proceeds for the services rendered
by Service Provider to be made payable sole to Service Provider and shall be
delivered directly and exclusively via a separate and individual payment to
Service Provider. Client makes the assignment and authorization in
consideration of Service Provider’s agreement to perform services and supply
materials and otherwise perform its obligations under this contract, including
not requiring full payment at the time of service. Client also hereby expressly
and unequivocally instructs and directs my insurance carrier(s) to release any
and all information requested by Service Provider, its representative, or its
attorney solely for the direct purpose of obtaining actual benefits to be paid
by my insurance carrier for services rendered. Service Provider shall be
entitled to any and all recovery of costs and attorney’s fees associated with
the collection of their invoice or estimate of service from Client’s Insurance
Company. Client has the right to rescind the assignment agreement without a
penalty or fees by submitting a written notice of rescission signed by Client
to Service Provider within 3 days after the execution of the agreement.” 
 
(TAC ¶6).  
 
After receiving the AOB, Plaintiff alleges that it submitted
a claim for payment directly to Defendant (Submitted Claim) for payment for the
inspection and for the cost of repairs associated with the insurable damage to
the Insured Property.  (TAC ¶14).  Plaintiff alleges that: 
 
“Defendant has denied the Submitted
Claim and/or refused to honor and/or pay the Submitted Claim in breach of the
insurance contract and without substantial justification, including but not
necessarily limited to, by failing to acknowledge and act reasonably promptly
upon communications with respect to claims arising under insurance policies; by
failing to affirm or deny coverage of claims within a reasonable time after
proof of loss requirements have been completed and submitted by the insured; by
not attempting in good faith to effectuate prompt, fair, and equitable
settlement of the Submitted Claim where liability is reasonably clear; by
delaying the investigation or payment of claims by requiring Plaintiff and/or
the Policy Holder to submit a preliminary claim report and then requiring the
subsequent submission of formal proof of loss forms both of which submissions
contain substantially the same information; and/or by failing to provide
promptly a reasonable explanation of the basis relied on in the insurance
policy, in relation to the facts or applicable law, for the denial of a claim
or for the offer of a compromise settlement.”
 
(TAC ¶15).
 
As a result, on 11/4/22, Plaintiff filed this action
against Defendant, erroneously sued as Mercury Insurance Services, LLC, for: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Tortious Bad Faith; Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  On 2/14/23, Plaintiff filed its First Amended
Complaint which alleged the same two causes of action.  After meet and confer efforts failed to
resolve all of the issues Defendant had with the First Amended Complaint, on
3/22/23, Defendant filed and served a demurrer to the entire First Amended
Complaint on the grounds that the 1st cause of action failed for
uncertainty (CCP 430.10(f)) and the 2nd cause of action failed
because Plaintiff had not alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action,
Plaintiff lacked standing and the cause of action was uncertain (CCP 430.10(e),
(f)).  Plaintiff also filed and served a motion
to strike which sought an order striking paragraph 20 in the 1st
cause of action relating to attorney fees and paragraph 2 of the Prayer which sought
the recovery of attorney fees.  On
6/20/23, this Court sustained the demurer and granted the motion to strike,
both with leave to amend.  (See
6/20/23 Minute Order).  
 
In its 6/20/23 ruling, the Court found:
 
“that all
of the terms of the AOB must be set forth, verbatim (i.e., with quotation
marks), or a copy of the AOB must be attached as an exhibit to Plaintiff’s
pleading (preferred method) in order for the Court to determine whether the
assignment provides Plaintiff with standing to bring a claim for bad
faith/breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The Court
finds that the exact wording including the punctuation contained in the AOB are
necessary to make a determination.”
 
On 8/14/23, Plaintiff filed its Second Amended
Complaint.  After meet and confer efforts
regarding issues Defendant had with the Second Amended Complaint, the parties
submitted a stipulation and order to allow for the filing of a Third Amended
Complaint (TAC), which was granted on 9/29/23. 
On 10/6/23, Plaintiff filed the subject Third Amended Complaint which,
again, alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Tortious
Bad Faith; Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  After meet and confer efforts failed to
resolve the issues Defendant had with the Third Amended Complaint, on 11/6/23,
Defendant filed and served the instant demurrer to the entire Third Amended
Complaint.  
 
The demurrer was originally scheduled for hearing on
12/19/23.  On 12/1/23, the Court served
the parties with a Notice Re: Continuance and Order which continued the hearing
to 1/24/24 and specifically stated that the opposition and reply were due to
the 12/19/23 hearing date.  (See
12/1/23 Notice Re: Continuance and Order). 
The opposition was not filed and served in compliance with the Court’s
12/1/23 order.  Rather, the opposition
states that after receiving notice of the continuance, ‘[t]he parties discussed
and agreed to move all deadlines associated with the Demurrer to the
rescheduled hearing date.”  (See
Opposition, p.2:5-7).  The parties are
informed that they are not permitted to change court ordered filing deadlines
without court approval.  When the Court
sets such filing deadlines in its orders of continuance, it is to accommodate
the court’s work schedule.
 
Despite the late filing and service of the opposition and
reply, both were considered by the Court in ruling on the demurrer.  However, the parties are warned that failure
to comply with court ordered filing deadlines in the future may result in
late-filed papers not being considered.  
 
  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
granted.  
 
If a third party is claiming to be an assignee, the
complaint must allege the assignment of benefits to the plaintiff.  Emerald Bay Community Association
(2005) 130 CA4th 1078, 1091.
 
Despite the Court’s statement in its 6/20/23 ruling that “that
all of the terms of the AOB must be set forth, verbatim (i.e., with quotation
marks), or a copy of the AOB must be attached as an exhibit to Plaintiff’s
pleading (preferred method),” in order for the Court to determine Plaintiff’s
standing, Plaintiff has done neither. 
The AOB is not attached to the Third Amended Complaint and the terms of
same are not set forth with quotation marks is the Third Amended Complaint.
 
Based on the wording of the allegations, it appears that
paragraph 4 in the Third Amended Complaint consists of Plaintiff’s
interpretation of the “material terms of the AOB” and paragraphs 5 and 6 are
the actual terms of the AOB.  Plaintiff
improperly relies on its interpretation rather than the actual terms of the
AOB.  
 
The actual terms of the AOB, as alleged in paragraphs 5
and 6 of the Third Amended Complaint 
are:
 
“5. 
Agreement: By executing this agreement (“Agreement”), I, the Property
Owner/Insured named above, and or its representative for the property located
at the address listed above (hereinafter “Client”) hereby agrees and authorize
Clean Initiative LLC (hereinafter “Service Provider”) to enter said property to
perform services to protect, repair, restore, or replace a dwelling or
structure or to mitigate against further damage to such property in accordance
with accepted industry standards (“Property”). Client represents and warrants
that Client intends to [ ? ] any and all rights, benefits, and proceeds for
services rendered by Service Provider to be assigned solely and exclusively to
Service Provider. Client agrees to fully cooperate with the insurance company
as required by the subject policy of insurance and comply with all post-loss
duties required by same. Client also accepts responsibility to protect any
equipment left at the subject property for mitigation and remediation purposes.
 
6. 
Assignment of Benefits and Direct Payment Authorization: Client hereby
assigns any and all insurance rights and proceeds under my property insurance
policy up to the amount of the services provided by Service Provider
Specialty. Client assigns all legal rights to recover any and all
insurance proceeds owed by my insurance company regarding the loss including
but not limited to the right to bring appropriate legal action up to the amount
owed for the services rendered by Service Provider. Client also hereby
directs, authorizes and unequivocally instructs direct payment of any benefit
or proceeds for the services rendered by Service Provider to be made
payable sole[ly] to Service Provider and shall be delivered directly and
exclusively via a separate and individual payment to Service Provider. Client
makes the assignment and authorization in consideration of Service Provider’s
agreement to perform services and supply materials and otherwise perform its
obligations under this contract, including not requiring full payment at the
time of service. Client also hereby expressly and unequivocally instructs and
directs my insurance carrier(s) to release any and all information requested by
Service Provider, its representative, or its attorney solely for the direct
purpose of obtaining actual benefits to be paid by my insurance carrier for
services rendered. Service Provider shall be entitled to any and all
recovery of costs and attorney’s fees associated with the collection of their
invoice or estimate of service from Client’s Insurance Company. Client has the
right to rescind the assignment agreement without a penalty or fees by
submitting a written notice of rescission signed by Client to Service Provider
within 3 days after the execution of the agreement.”  (emphasis added).
 
Under the terms of the AOB, the Policy Holder assigned to
Plaintiff the legal rights to recover any and all proceeds owed by Defendant
for services actually rendered, not for services “to be rendered” as claimed by
Plaintiff.  (See TAC ¶4;
Opposition, p.4:16-20).  Plaintiff has
failed to clearly allege that it has already rendered services to the Policy
Holder.  In paragraph 2, Plaintiff
alleges that it “performed an inspection of the roof” of the Policy Holder and
“identified roof damage which required/requires repair… .”  (TAC ¶2). 
In paragraph 3, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]fter conducting an inspection
of the Insured Property, Plaintiff prepared an estimate of the necessary
repairs which identified the estimate cost of repairs to be $59,341.76.”  (TAC ¶3). 
Later, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff performed roof inspection
and/or repair services for the benefit of the Policy Holder. . .” and that
“[i]nstead of paying Plaintiff directly for services rendered the Policy Holder
assigned to Plaintiff… .”  (See
TAC ¶¶12-13).  As such, it cannot be
determined whether Plaintiff has standing to make a claim for breach of
contract.  
 
Even if Plaintiff can amend its pleading to allege that
it has already rendered services to the Policy Holder giving Plaintiff standing
to make a breach of contract claim, the terms of the AOB establish that
Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for tortious
bad faith/breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails
as a matter of law.  As noted above, the
AOB provides:
 
“Client assigns all legal rights to
recover any and all insurance proceeds owed by my insurance company regarding
the loss including but not limited to the right to bring appropriate legal
action up to the amount owed for the services rendered by Service Provider.”
 
(TAC ¶6, p.3:15-18)
 
The Court finds that the foregoing term of the AOB limits
Plaintiff’s recovery in a legal action to the amount owed for services rendered
to the Policy Holder by Plaintiff, which are contract damages, not tort damages
as sought in the 2nd cause of action.  
 
The Court also notes that the reply to the opposition
includes arguments which are not included in the demurrer, specifically, that
the Third Amended Complaint, is not pled with the required particularity and
the Third Amended Complaint fails to address the uncertainty as to the amount
of damages.  (See Demurrer,
generally; Reply, p.3:27-p.5:16).  As
such, these arguments were not considered in ruling on the demurrer.  
 
Further, the Court notes that Defendant failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the moving papers as
required.  See CRC
3.1110(f)(4).  The parties are warned
that failure to comply with this requirement in the future may lead to matters
being continued so that papers may be re-filed in compliance, papers not being
considered and/or the imposition of sanctions. 

 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer to the 1st cause of action for
breach of contract is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  The demurrer to the 2nd cause of
action for tortious bad faith/breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is sustained without leave to amend. 

 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 