  Case Number:  23AHCV02255    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  X Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      July 16, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: March 11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         HETHER FLORES v.
TRADER JOE’S COMPANY, B-K LA CANADA PROPERTY, LLC; and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02255
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Hether Flores
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      None
 
SERVICE:                              Filed May 23, 2024.
 
OPPOSITION:                       None.
 
REPLY:                                   None.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant B-K La Canada Property,
LLC’s Person Most Knowledgeable to appear for a deposition and produce
documents requested within ten days of the Court’s order.  Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions in
the amount of $1,802.50.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff
Hether Flores filed an action for (1) negligence (premises liability) and (2)
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision against Defendants Trader Joe’s
Company (“Trader Joe’s”) and B-K La Canada Property, LLC (“B-K”).  Plaintiff alleges that on September 26, 2022,
she was visiting the Trader Joe’s grocery store located in La Canada when she
stepped onto what appeared a water meter and fell through it, sustaining
injuries.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff Hether Flores’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant
B-K La Canada Property, LLC’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED.  Defendant B-K is
ordered to appear at a properly noticed deposition and produce the documents
requested, within ten (10) days of the Court’s Order.
 
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of
$1,802.50 is also GRANTED, to be paid by Defendant B-K La Canada Property, LLC,
within thirty (30) days of the Court’s order.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”
 
            The motion shall “(1) set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant B-K’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”)
to appear for deposition and produce the documents requested within ten days of
the Court’s order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel, Amber Esposito, indicates that on February 5, 2024, Plaintiff served a
notice of deposition on Defendant B-K. 
(Esposito Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  On
February 28, 2024, defense counsel requested a new deposition date via
email.  (Ibid. at ¶ 3, Ex.
B.)  Esposito requested dates multiple
times and rescheduled the deposition to May 7, 2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 4, Ex. C.)  On May 6, 2024, defense counsel sent an email
to Esposito stating that he had a medical procedure and would not be producing
the witness at the deposition.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 6, Ex. E.)  Defendant has not served
any objections to the Notices.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 7.)  On May 10 and 16, 2024,
Esposito attempted to meet and confer with defense counsel to obtain a new date
for the deposition.  (Ibid. at ¶¶
8-9, Exs. F-G.)
 
            Plaintiff
also requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,802.50 as follows: 3.1
hours preparing the instant Motion and one hour to attend the hearing, at a
billing rate of $425 per hour, plus $60 in filing fees. 
 
Plaintiff has submitted
evidence that she served deposition notices on Defendant.  Defendant did not serve valid objections or
appear at the noticed depositions. 
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to discuss mutually convenient deposition
dates on several occasions prior to filing the instant Motion.  Defendant has not opposed the Motion. The
Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (a).  Plaintiff’s
Motion is GRANTED.
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a), provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.  A
misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.  (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subdivision (d).) 
In addition, a court shall impose monetary sanctions if a motion to
compel a deposition is granted unless “the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Code. Civ.
Proc. section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1).)
 
            Given that
the Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion, the Court may also impose monetary
sanctions.  The Court finds sanctions in
the amount of $1,802.50 to be appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Hether Flores’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Defendant B-K La Canada Property, LLC’s Person Most Knowledgeable is
GRANTED.  Defendant
B-K is ordered to appear at a properly noticed deposition and produce the
documents requested, within ten (10) days of the Court’s Order.
 
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of
$1,802.50 is also GRANTED, to be paid by Defendant B-K La Canada Property, LLC,
within thirty (30) days of the Court’s order.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated:   July 16, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
