 Case Number:  23AHCV02404    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  X Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      July 16, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: February 25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         TEJ KISHOR NAIK v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02404
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Tej Kishor Naik
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April 9, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 18, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed July 9, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant to produce its person
most qualified for deposition and to produce the documents requested, within 30
days.  Plaintiff also requests monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3,150.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff’s
lemon law claim for a 2020 Honda Odyssey Van with Vehicle Identification Number
5FNRL6H92LB068018 (“Subject Vehicle”).  Plaintiff
filed this complaint on October 17, 2023.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff Tej Kishor Naik’s Motion to Compel Deposition
of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is DENIED.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”
 
            The motion shall “(1) set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling the deposition testimony of Defendant’s person
most qualified.  According to Plaintiff’s
counsel, Isaac Agyeman, Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition for AHM’s PMQ
on November 21, 2023.  (Agyeman ¶ 6, Ex.
A.)  On December 7, 2023, AHM served
objections to the Notice.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 7, Ex. B.)  In December 2023,
Plaintiff initiated its meet and confer efforts and asked Defendant to provide
available dates for the deposition; Defendant did not provide any dates.  (Ibid. at ¶ 8, Ex. C.)  On December 12, Plaintiff served a 1st
Amended Notice of Deposition on Defendant to produce its PMQ for a
deposition.  (Ibid. at ¶ 9, Ex.
D.)  The following day, Defendant
informed Plaintiff that there would be a delay in producing the witness.  (Ibid. at ¶ 10, Ex. E.)  On January 3 and February 16, 2024, Plaintiff
once again reached out to Defendant and asked for available dates, Defendant
responded to the first communication promising to provide a date but did not
respond to the second communication.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 11, Ex. F.)  On March 6, 2024,
Plaintiff served its 2nd Amended Notice of Deposition, to which AHM
responded with additional objections.  (Ibid.
at ¶¶ 13, Exs. H-I.)  Plaintiff followed
up with a voicemail and written correspondence attempting to meet and
confer.  (Ibid. at ¶ 15, Ex.
J.)  To date, AHM has refused to discuss
its objections or provide any available dates for the deposition.  (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,150.00 as follows: three hours
for drafting the instant Motion, two hours in reviewing the opposition and
drafting a reply, and an hour to attend the hearing, at a billing rate of $525
per hour.  (Ibid. at ¶ 18.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the deposition is crucial to Plaintiff’s ability to prove his
case.  Plaintiff has attempted to meet
and confirm and cooperate with Defendant on several occasions, however, AHM has
continued to refuse to produce a witness. 
The matters Plaintiff seeks to uncover through the deposition and
production of documents are “basic” and “benign” and “universally discoverable
in lemon law cases.”  (Mot. pp. 9-10.)  Plaintiff is not seeking objectionable,
overbroad, or privileged information.  Moreover,
Plaintiff argues that good cause exists to compel the deposition and production
of documents because the testimony topics and document requests “go to the
essential elements of Plaintiff’s express and implied warranty and damages
claims.”  (Mot. p. 14.)  Plaintiff has submitted a Separate Statement
explaining why AHM should be deposed regarding all of the matters indicated and
produce all of the documents requested in the Notice.  (See 4-12-24 Separate Statement.)
 
            AHM
opposes the Motion, stating that it never refused to produce the witness
requested, but rather informed Plaintiff that it is diligently attempting to
obtain deposition dates.  Due to the
volume of cases requesting depositions of its person most qualified, AHM has
been unable to produce the witness in the timeframe noticed by Plaintiff.  Trial is currently set for February 25, 2025,
and Plaintiff has served three notices within a very short timeframe without
making a good faith effort to meet and confer, which has not provided AHM with
enough time to produce a PMQ.  AHM
continues to make a good faith effort to schedule the deposition and requests
that the Court deny the Motion.  AHM also
argues that the Motion should be denied because Plaintiff did not give proper
notice, as the Motion was served electronically 16 court days before the May 1,
2024, hearing instead of 16 courts and two calendar days as required for
electronic service.
 
            AHM
states that the Motion should be denied pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450(a) because ADM has not failed to appear at a deposition
without filing timely valid objections.  Sanctions should also be denied as AHM has
acted with substantial justification in attempting to come up with a mutually
convenient date for the deposition.  AHM
has submitted the declaration of the attorney newly assigned to the case,
Candie Chang, who states that she is actively working on securing an available
date for the corporate witness.  (See Change
Decl.)  Furthermore, AHM has filed a
Separate Statement responding to Plaintiff’s arguments regarding each category
of questions and documents requested.
 
            In
its Reply, Plaintiff argues that notice was served timely as the hearing on the
Motion was rescheduled to July 16, 2024. 
Plaintiff reasserts that AHM has served baseless, boilerplate objections,
failed to meet and confer in good faith, and to comply with its discovery
obligations.  Prior to the hearing on
this Motion, AHM informed Plaintiff that the earliest available deposition date
is on November 8, 2024, which Plaintiff argues is too close to the trial
date.  Thus, Plaintiff requests that the
deposition be ordered to take place within thirty days.
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that due to the rescheduled hearing date
of July 16, 2024, proper notice was given regarding the Motion.
            
The basis of Plaintiff’s Motion
is that AHM has refused to provide its witness for deposition or to produce the
requested documents.  Based on the Motion
and the Opposition, the Court finds that AHM has served timely objections and is
continuing to attempt to secure a convenient date for the deposition of its
PMQ.  The Court does not find that AHM
has refused to attend the deposition and failed to produce the documents
requested.
 
If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc. section 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it
shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.”  (Code Civ. Proc. section 2025.480,
subd. (i).)
 
            Because no
deposition has occurred yet and Defendant has filed a sworn declaration of its
counsel indicating that diligent efforts are being made to secure a mutually
convenient deposition date, an order on the specific categories is premature.
 
            Moreover, as
the Motion is denied, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff Tej Kishor Naik’s Motion to Compel Deposition
of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is DENIED.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also
DENIED.
 
            Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   July 16, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
