 Case Number:  22STCV37970    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



HIGH HEALS KITCHEN, INC., a California corporation; and MICHELLE
  MANGIONE, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
GLOBAL CANNABIS APPLICATIONS CORP. aka GLOBAL COMPLIANCE
  APPLICATIONS CORPORATION, a Canadian corporation; and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV37970
 Hearing Date:   2/5/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Global
  Cannabis Applications Corp.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint Filed by
  Plaintiffs High Heals Kitchen, Inc. and Michelle Mangione.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiffs High Heals Kitchen, Inc. and Michelle Mangione sue Defendants
Global Cannabis Applications Corp. and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a
September 29, 2023 First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Breach
of Contract and (2) Fraud.
The breach of contract claim arises from the following allegations. On or
about May 14, 2019, the parties entered into a Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA).
Pursuant to the NDA, the parties entered into protected discussions, in which
Plaintiffs shared confidential information about their proprietary intellectual
property and business strategies relating to a unique algorithm to standardize
measuring THC and CBD levels in cannabis products. GCAC offered to buy the
proprietary technology for $5 million, which Plaintiffs declined in favor of a
higher offer or a licensing agreement. Thereafter, GCAC probed into, and
Plaintiffs shared information regarding Plaintiffs’ intended incorporation of
blockchain and data collection into their dosing algorithm and their business
plans relating to the development of universal regulatory standards for the
cannabis industry. This further sharing of information was prompted by
representations from GCAC that it would attempt to raise further monies for
purchase and that GCAC would be interested in a collaborative partnership. GCAC
subsequently developed a patent that incorporated the misappropriated confidential
information shared by Plaintiffs, thus breaching various specifically
identified clauses in the NDA and harming Plaintiffs as a result.
The fraud claim arises from the following allegations. GCAC
used the confidential information disclosed by Plaintiffs to develop its own
patent while simultaneously making false representations to Plaintiffs that GCAC
intended to either purchase their proprietary dosing technology or enter into a
collaborative partnership. GCAC made these false representations so that it
could continue to mine Plaintiffs for confidential information about the
applicability of the technology in the cannabis industry and Plaintiffs’
strategies relating to global deployment, including Plaintiffs’ work developing
global standards for the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), all
with no intention on ever moving forward on these plans. Plaintiffs justifiably
relied on these representations in sharing the confidential information
pursuant to the NDA and were harmed by these actions in releasing proprietary
information without benefit of the bargain.
Motion Before the Court
On October 26, 2023, GCAC demurred
to the FAC’s fraud claim.
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiffs
opposed the demurrer.
On January 29, 2024, GCAC replied
to the opposition.
GCAC’s demurrer is now before the
Court.
 
Demurrer
Demurrer
Sufficiency Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) This device can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.)
Thus, “[t]o survive a [general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other
grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th
1158, 1162.) The face of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the
complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts
appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits
take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in White
v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
Uncertainty
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer to a pleading lies where the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).) “A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616, disapproved on other grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title
Guar. Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business
practices need not be pled specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].)
As a result, a special demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach
failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at
uncertainty existing in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro
(1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v.
J.E. French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations
question].) Where complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to
apprise defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a
special demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see also Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special demurrer [for
uncertainty] should be overruled where the allegations of the complaint are
sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to
meet”].)
Order
on Demurrer – FAC, Fraud: OVERRULED.
Intentional
misrepresentation involves “(1) a knowingly false representation by the
defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable
reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.” (Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
Allegations
of fraud “must be pled with more detail than other causes of action.” (Apollo
Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226,
240.) “Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged …
factually and specifically[,] and the policy of liberal construction of the
pleadings … will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in
any material respect. [Citations.]” (Committee on Children’s Television,
Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216, superseded by
statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[G]eneral and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Small
v. Fritz Cos., Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 [citations omitted].)
Fittingly, a plaintiff pleading fraud must plead facts showing “how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means” the allegedly fraudulent representations
were tendered. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
The
fraud claim arises from the following
allegations. GCAC used the confidential information disclosed by
Plaintiffs to develop its own patent while simultaneously making false
representations to Plaintiffs that GCAC intended to either purchase Plaintiffs’
proprietary dosing technology or enter into a collaborative partnership. GCAC
made these false representations so that it could continue to mine Plaintiffs
for confidential information about the applicability of the technology in the
cannabis industry and Plaintiffs’ strategies relating to global deployment,
including Plaintiffs’ work developing global standards for the American Society
for Testing and Materials (ASTM), all with no intention of ever moving forward with
a purchase or collaboration. Plaintiffs justifiably relied on these
representations in sharing the confidential information pursuant to the NDA and
were harmed by these actions in releasing proprietary information without
benefit of the bargain. (FAC, ¶¶ 1-7, 15-33 [background allegations], 34-41
[first cause of action], 42-51 [second cause of action].)
In
its demurrer, GCAC argues that the FAC fails to sufficiently alleged fraud
because it fails to allege (1) a misrepresentation made with knowledge
(particularly in light of the contradictory allegations regarding whether GCAC
intended to raise monies and buy out the proprietary technologies or instead
collaborate with Plaintiffs), (2) intent to deceive or induce reliance, and (3)
justifiable reliance. GCAC also argues that the FAC fails to allege the claim
pursuant to the heightened standard applicable to fraud claims. (Demurrer, pp.
4-10.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs rebut these points with specific references to the
responsive allegations in the FAC and arguments in favor of sufficient pleading
in line with the heightened standard. Plaintiff also briefly argues that leave
should be granted if the demurrer is sustained. (Opp’n, pp. 6-10.)
In
reply, GCAC rebuts the opposition arguments and focuses on arguments that the
contradictory nature of the misrepresentation allegations merits sustaining the
demurrer. GCAC also argues that there can be no intent to defraud or
justifiable reliance because the confidential information was shared pursuant
to the NDA, not based on any alleged statements by GCAC’s agents. Last, GCAC
argues that leave to amend should not be granted if the demurrer is sustained.
(Reply, pp. 3-9.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiffs.
Here,
the FAC contains the following allegations. The parties entered the NDA, which
contemplated use of the confidential information shared between the parties
“for no purpose other than evaluating or pursuing a business relationship with
the other party to” the NDA. (FAC, Ex. 1, ¶ 2.) GCAC offered to buy the
proprietary technology, which Plaintiffs declined, seeking a higher payout or a
collaborative licensing relationship. (FAC, ¶ 4.) At or around the same time,
GCAC’s agent Mr. Moore represented that he would attempt to raise additional
monies for GCAC to make a higher offer (FAC, ¶ 4) and that he would be
interested in a collaborative partnership (FAC, ¶ 43). GCAC also probed into
further confidential information belonging to Plaintiffs, including intended
incorporation of blockchain and data collection into the dosing algorithm and
business plans relating to the development of universal regulatory standards
for the cannabis industry. (FAC, ¶ 5.) In reliance on GCAC’s representations to
either purchase the proprietary technology or enter a collaborative
partnership, Plaintiffs were induced into disclosing this information. (FAC, ¶¶
44, 47.) However, GCAC never intended to buy the technology or collaborate with
Plaintiffs—which the Court notes, for the below discussion, also alleges the falsity
of the statements alleged and the intent to induce reliance on the statements.
(FAC, ¶ 47.) Moreover, the purpose of deceiving Plaintiffs was to obtain
further confidential information that GCAC could use in filing its own patent
application based on Plaintiffs’ proprietary technology and confidential
information. (FAC, ¶ 43.) Plaintiffs justifiably relied on these
representations because the additional confidential information was disclosed
as a result of GCAC’s representations of intent to raise further monies or
collaborate with Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs had no way of knowing that GCAC did not
intend to follow through on its promises. (FAC, ¶¶ 4, 43, 48.) Plaintiffs were
harmed as a result by releasing confidential information to its detriment and
failing to receive the benefit of the bargain, including promised protections
about misappropriation and theft of the above confidential information. (FAC, ¶
49.) The Complaint also alleges that confidential information was used by GCAC
to obtain a patent based on that information. (FAC, ¶¶ 4, 43.) Prior
allegations are incorporated into the second cause of action for fraud. (FAC, ¶
42.)
These
allegations sufficiently provide, to the heightened standard and at the
pleadings stage, GCAC’s knowing misrepresentations, made with intent to induce
reliance, that did in fact induce Plaintiffs’ reliance, and resulted in damages,
alleged with proper particularity. “‘[T]he
courts should not ... seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly
technical requirements of form in pleading. Pleading facts in ordinary and
concise language is as permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal
construction of the pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in
other cases.’” (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC
v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 242.) Any further
evidentiary facts can be obtained through discovery. (Gervase v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1218, 1243, fn 16 (although state rules for
pleading require that fraud be alleged with specificity, they do not require
“the pleader to go into minute detail or to allege evidentiary as opposed to
ultimate facts.”].)
GCAC’s
demurrer is thus OVERRULED. 

Conclusion
Defendant Global Cannabis
Applications Corp.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint Filed by Plaintiffs
High Heals Kitchen, Inc. and Michelle Mangione is OVERRULED. Defendant shall
file its Answer within 10 days.