  Case Number:  23VECV02397    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Zeferino
  Juarez Vazquez,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Uber
  Technologies, Inc., et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    23VECV02397                             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       Motion to be Relieved
  as Counsel 
 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Grant
 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On or about
June 2, 2021, Plaintiff Zeferino Juarez Vazquez (“Plaintiff”) was riding a
bicycle when Plaintiff was hit by a vehicle driven by Defendants Caeros O.
Durias and Does 1 through 10. (Complaint ¶¶ 19-21, 24.) Defendants PV Holding
Corp. and Does 61 through 70 were the owners, lessors, and/or lessees of the
vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 13.) At the time of the incident, Defendants Caeros O.
Durias and Does 1 through 10 were providing services for Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc., Raiser, LLC, Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, Raiser-PA,
LLC, and Does 11 through 60. (Complaint ¶ 14.) 
 
On June 1,
2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Raiser, LLC, Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, Raiser-PA, LLC, Caeros O. Durias,
PV Holding Corp., and Does 1 to 70, alleging causes of action for
negligence/negligence per se, negligence (hiring, training, supervision and
retention) and negligent entrustment.
 
On December
11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss Defendants Raiser, LLC,
Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, and Raiser-PA, LLC. (Request for Dismissal
filed 12/11/23.) On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss
Defendant PV Holding Corp. (Request for Dismissal filed 12/18/23.)  
 
On October
23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel (“Counsel”) filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.
This court denied that motion. (11/18/24 Minute Order p. 5.)
 
On December
4, 2024, Counsel filed another motion to be relieved as counsel (the “Motion”).
No opposition has been filed.
 
II.            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The attorney in an action or
special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final
determination . . . [u]pon the order of the court, upon the application of
either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 284(2).) 
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362 requires:
 
1.     Notice of motion and motion to be
directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051));
 
2.     A declaration stating in general
terms, and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney client
relationship, why a motion under California Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under California Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-052)); 
 
3.     Service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and all other parties who
have appeared in the case, and
 
4.     The proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-053)).
 
The court may deny the motion to
withdraw if it will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause injustice. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.) “The determination whether to
grant or deny an attorney’s motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.” (Lempert v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) An attorney is not limited to
withdrawing from a case for cause and may withdraw when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to the client. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 554, 559.)
 
III.          
DISCUSSION
 
(A) Notice—Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362(a)
 
“A notice of motion and motion to
be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be
directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a).)
 
The
Motion complies with this requirement.
 
(B) Declaration—Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362(c)
 
“The motion to be relieved as
counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without compromising
the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(c).)
 
The Motion complies with this
requirement. Counsel submits a declaration on Form MC-052 stating:
 
There has been a complete breakdown
in the attorney-client relationship. The client has repeatedly failed to comply
with essential litigation requirements, including appearing for scheduled
depositions and meeting court deadlines, despite numerous attempts to
communicate and coordinate compliance. The client has also been unresponsive to
communications and requests for necessary information and cooperation.
Furthermore, the client has made explicit threats to report counsel to the
State Bar, creating a situation where continued representation would be
unethical and unworkable, impairing counsel's ability to effectively advocate
on the client's behalf. Therefore, withdrawal is necessary to preserve
counsel’s ethical obligations and avoid prejudice to the client.
 
(MC-052 p. 1.)
 
(C) Service—Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362(d); Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local
Rules, Rule 4.35 
 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and the
proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who have
appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) 
 
“If the notice is served on the
client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be
accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:
 
1.     The service address is the current
residence or business address of the client; or
 
2.     The service address is the last
known residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been
unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do
so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.”
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1).)
 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was
confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely
demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last known address and
was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message was received is not,
by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the
service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d).) 
 
“When an attorney files a motion to
withdraw as attorney of record for a fiduciary, service must be made by
citation. The citation must be served in the manner provided in Code of Civil
Procedure sections 415.10 or 415.30. If the fiduciary resides outside of
California, service may also be made in the manner provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 415.40.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 4.35.)
 
The Motion complies with these
requirements.
 
Counsel submits a proof of service
showing the Notice of Motion and Motion, Declaration, and Proposed Order were
served on Plaintiff by mail. (Proof of Service filed 12/04/24.) Counsel’s
declaration states that Counsel confirmed by telephone and conversation, within
the past thirty days, that Plaintiff’s address is current. (MC-052 p. 1.) 
 
Counsel also submits a proof of
service showing the Notice of Motion and Motion, Declaration, and Proposed
Order were served on Defendants Caeros O. Durias and Uber Technologies, Inc. (Counsel’s
Declaration filed 11/15/24 Ex. B.)
 
(D) Proposed Order—Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362(e)
 
“The proposed order relieving
counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the
court with the moving papers. The order must specify all hearing dates
scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known.
If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify
the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order
must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.
The court may delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until
proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed
with the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)
 
The Motion complies with this
requirement.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this court
grants the Motion.
 
 
Dated:                          December 12, 2024                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                      
           Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Zeferino
  Juarez Vazquez,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Uber
  Technologies, Inc., et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    23VECV02397                             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
Motion
  to Continue
 
 
 


[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:  Grant   I.               
BACKGROUND  On
or about June 2, 2021, Plaintiff Zeferino Juarez Vazquez (“Plaintiff”) was
riding a bicycle when Plaintiff was hit by a vehicle driven by Defendants
Caeros O. Durias and Does 1 through 10. (Complaint ¶¶ 19-21, 24.) Defendants PV
Holding Corp. and Does 61 through 70 were the owners, lessors, and/or lessees
of the vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 13.) At the time of the incident, Defendants
Caeros O. Durias and Does 1 through 10 were providing services for Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc., Raiser, LLC, Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC,
Raiser-PA, LLC, and Does 11 through 60. (Complaint ¶ 14.)   On
June 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies,
Inc., Raiser, LLC, Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, Raiser-PA, LLC, Caeros O.
Durias, PV Holding Corp., and Does 1 to 70, alleging causes of action for
negligence/negligence per se, negligence (hiring, training, supervision and
retention) and negligent entrustment. On
December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss Defendants Raiser, LLC,
Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, and Raiser-PA, LLC. (Request for Dismissal
filed 12/11/23.) On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss
Defendant PV Holding Corp. (Request for Dismissal filed 12/18/23.) On
October 25, 2024, Defendant Caeros O. Durias (“Defendant”) filed a motion to
continue trial (the “Motion”). No opposition has been filed. II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD  Trial dates are firm to
ensure prompt disposition of civil cases and continuances are generally
disfavored. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a), (c).)¿ Nevertheless, the
trial court has discretion to continue trial dates.¿ (Hernandez v. Superior
Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)  Circumstances that may
indicate good cause include:   1.              
The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;   2.              
The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   3.              
The unavailability of
trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;   4.              
The substitution of
trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice;   5.              
The addition of a new
party if (A) the new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial, or (B) the other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;   6.              
A party’s excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or  7.              
A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.¿   (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(c).) The court must also
consider relevant factors, that may include:   1.              
The proximity of the
trial date;   2.              
Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party;   3.              
The length of the
continuance requested;   4.              
The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 5.              
The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  6.              
If the case is entitled
to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the
need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  7.              
The court’s calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;   8.              
Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;  9.              
Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;   10.           
Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and  11.           
Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.¿   (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(d).)¿¿  III.          
DISCUSSION  The
trial is currently set for February 18, 2025. Defendant seeks a 180-day
continuance. (Motion p. 7.) Defendant states good cause exists to continue the
trial because: (1) Plaintiff’s counsel filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel, and will, therefore, be unavailable for trial in February; (2)
Defendant has been unable to prepare for trial because Plaintiff has not
participated in a deposition; and (3) Defendant’s counsel is unavailable
because of a planned family vacation. (Motion pp. 5-6.) Defendant’s
counsel submits a declaration stating that: “[o]n or around October 1, 2024,
after several unsuccessful attempts to set Plaintiff for deposition, our office
was informed by Plaintiff’s counsel that they have lost contact with their
client and are actively working on locating him” and “Plaintiff’s counsel has
filed a motion to be relieved as counsel due to a complete breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship.” (Riddles Declaration ¶ 5.) Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration also states that counsel has “a personal conflict with
the current set trial dates due to a planned family vacation from February 15,
2025 through February 22, 2025, which was unknown to me at the time of the Case
Management Conference when this case was set for trial. The trip was booked by
a family member of mine without my knowledge and accommodations have been paid
for. Further, my son’s school schedule for the 2024 – 2025 school year was
unknown at the time of the Case Management Conference, and I since learned he
does not have school the week of February 17, 2024. I will face . . .  undue hardship between trial dates and
childcare obligations given these circumstances.” (Riddles Declaration ¶ 7.) Finally,
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration states “Plaintiff’s absence of participation
in the discovery process is prejudicial to Defendants’ ability to narrow the
liability issue in controversy, evaluate Plaintiff’s claims, conduct percipient
witness and expert witness discovery, develop defenses, engage in resolution
efforts, and prepare for trial. Given this absence, it is not practical to
realistically settle this matter before the current trial dates set in February
2025 or to fully prepare for the trial considering the anticipated cost and
difficulty to deal with a Plaintiff that may not appear.” (Riddles Declaration
¶ 8.)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c)(6) provides that circumstances
that may indicate good cause to continue a trial include “a party’s excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts[.]”   Defendant
made “several unsuccessful attempts” to schedule Plaintiff’s deposition.
(Riddles Declaration ¶ 5.) Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition, which is set for hearing on January 22, 2024. (Motion to Compel
Deposition pp. 1-2; Riddles Declaration ¶ 6.) Further, Defendant submits emails
showing that on October 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendant that
Plaintiff’s counsel lost contact with Plaintiff. (Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s counsel
subsequently filed a motion to withdraw as counsel. (Riddles Declaration ¶ 5.)  This
court finds that Defendant made diligent efforts to obtain Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony, and Defendant’s inability to complete the deposition is
excused. Thus, good cause exists to continue the trial. Defendant’s
inability to obtain Plaintiff’s deposition testimony constitutes good cause to
continue the trial, so this court does not consider whether Defendant’s planned
vacation constitutes good cause. However, the court does note that Defendant’s
counsel’s planned vacation is approximately one-week long. (Riddles Declaration
¶ 7.) Thus, even if considered, the vacation alone does not justify continuing
the trial for six months. The
current trial date is set for approximately two months after the hearing on
this Motion. There have been no previous continuances requested by any party in
this case. (Riddles Declaration ¶ 9.) Defendant is seeking a relatively lengthy
180-day continuance. (Motion p. 7.) Defendant has sought to use alternative
means to obtain the necessary discovery – including filing a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition. (Riddles Declaration ¶¶ 5-6; Motion to Compel
Deposition.) With the trial date approaching, no other alternative means exist
to address the problem giving rise to the requested continuance. There is no
evidence any party or witness will be prejudiced by this continuance. (Motion
p. 7.) Finally, the interests of justice are best served by a continuance because
Plaintiff’s failure to appear at Defendant’s depositions has prevented
Defendant from preparing for trial. (Riddles Declaration ¶ 8.) Overall,
this court finds that these factors weigh in favor of granting the Motion. IV.          
EXTENDING
DISCOVERY Defendant
also requests this court extend “all Trial-Related Deadlines for a
period of 180 days, or the earliest date thereafter that is convenient for this
Court.” (Motion p. 8.) “Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(b).) Under
Civil Code of Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (a), “On motion of any
party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have
a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to
reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration does not contain the required meet and confer
declaration. (Riddles Declaration.) V.             
CONCLUSION  For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants the Motion. This court denies, without
prejudice, Defendant’s request to extend discovery deadlines. Dated:                          December 12, 2024                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                      
           Hon. Eric Harmon                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court
