 Case Number:  24NWCV00819    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  C Beilke
v. Villages at Heritage Springs Homeowners Association, et al., Case No.
24NWCV00819
 
This
case is about the former president of the homeowner’s association alleged
misappropriation of funds from the association. Plaintiff moves ex parte for a
temporary restraining order to stop defendants from selling, trying to sell,
causing to be sold, encumbering, or causing to be encumbered Plaintiff’s real
property located at 12353 Heritage Springs, Santa Fe Springs, California
90670.  Plaintiff also requests the Court to issue an order to show cause
why a preliminary injunction should not issue restraining and enjoining
defendants in the same manner for the remainder of the litigation. Defendants
oppose. Plaintiff replies. 
 
A
party may seek ex parte relief upon an affirmative factual showing
"irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other statutory basis for
granting relief ex parte." (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1202(c).)
 
Plaintiff
states that he and his wife will suffer irreparable harm if they are foreclosed
upon and evicted from their home. (Decl. Beilke, ¶ 26.) He further states that
losing his residence would disrupt his social network, uproot his family, and
subject him to the uncertainty of finding alternative housing in a competitive
market. (Decl. Beilke, ¶ 26.) 
 
The
trustee’s sale will occur on April 16, 2024. (Decl. Beike, ¶ 19, Ex. 5.) The
homeowner’s association recorded a notice of default on December 18, 2023.
(Decl. Beike, ¶ 18, Ex. 4.) 
 
Defendants
oppose on the grounds that no irreparable harm exists because money is the
remedy. Defendants argue that Plaintiff may pay and cancel the foreclosure sale
at any time. (Opp., pg. 4.) By doing so, Plaintiff can sue the association and
seek reimbursement. (Opp., pg. 4.) 
 
For purposes of determining whether equitable
relief by way of injunction is proper, required “irreparable injury” is one
whose pecuniary value is not susceptible to monetary valuation, or one
involving item so unique that its loss deprives possessor of intrinsic values
not replaceable by money or in kind. (Code Civ. Proc., § 526,
subd. (a)(2), (4).) 
 
Based
on the above, the Court finds that irreparable injury will occur if the sale
continues because Plaintiff derives intrinsic value from his home. The Court
GRANTS the motion for temporary restraining order and OSC re: Injunction. Order
to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction is scheduled for Tuesday, April 23,
2024, at 10:30 A.M. in Dept. SE-C. Opposition briefs are due nine court days
before the hearing and reply briefs five court days before. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1005.) 
 