  Case Number:  21STCV20196    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-09-2024
Case
# 21STCV20196, Perrigo, et al. v. Montecristo Trucking LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 03-24-2025
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTIES: Plaintiffs Chad Perrigo and Alexa Perrigo
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Strike
Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages against Defendant Thunder Ridge from the
Third Amended Complaint.
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
April 28, 2021, Plaintiff Chad Perrigo (Chad) was involved in a collision with
a semi-truck driven by Defendant Jorge Castaneda Rodriguez (Rodriguez).  As a result of the collision, Chad suffered
injuries.  At the time of the collision,
Defendant Montecristo Trucking, LLC owned the tractor and Defendant Fames
Transport, Inc. owned the attached trailer.
 
Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport Inc. is an interstate US Mail carrier that contracted
with the USPS to deliver packages. 
Thunder Ridge subcontracted the USPS Contract to Fames.  Fames assumed delivery of packages under the
USPS Contract.  Fames subcontracted the
USPS Contract to Montecristo without receiving contractually required
permission from Thunder Ridge.  Montecristo
was acting as Fames’ independent contractor while performing under the USPS
Contract.  Rodriguez is the sole owner of
Montecristo.
 
Plaintiffs
Chad Perrigo and Alexa Perrigo (Plaintiffs) filed their Third Amended Complaint
(3AC) on March 30, 2023 alleging causes of action for the injuries they
suffered: (1) negligence, (2) negligent entrustment, (3) negligent hiring,
supervision, and retention, (4) dangerous condition of public property, and (5)
loss of consortium.  Plaintiffs allege
Thunder Ridge failed to supervise or vet its drivers under its subcontract with
Fames,  Fames failed to supervise
Montecristo, and that Thunder Ridge, Fames, and Montecristo breached their
nondelegable duty to the public by requiring Rodriguez to drive while
fatigued.  
 
On
August 8, 2024, the Court granted, in part, Thunder Ridge’s motion for summary
judgment on the negligent entrustment and negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention causes of action.  (08/08/2024
- Minute Order.)  The Court denied the
motion for the loss of consortium claim. 
Thunder Ridge also asked the Court to strike punitive damages as part of
its motion for summary judgment.  The
Court denied this request because it should have been brought as either motion
to strike or motion for summary adjudication. 

 
Thunder
Ridge filed this motion to strike punitive damages from the 3AC on September
23, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed an opposition
on November 22, 2024.  No reply has been
filed.  
 
 
            Summary of Arguments
Thunder
Ridge moves to strike punitive damages against it from the 3AC.  The 3AC contains legal conclusions and fails
to plead specific factual allegations showing malice.  The allegations do not rise to the level of
“willful or conscious” disregard of Plaintiff’s interests.  Thunder Ridge also could not know Rodriguez
violated federal hours-of-service limitations because Thunder Ridge was unaware
Fames hired Rodriguez.  Plaintiff must
support their claims for punitive damages by clear and convincing
evidence.    
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Thunder Ridge filed its motion to strike after the
30-day statutory deadline and that the Court did not give Thunder Ridge
permission to file a late motion.  The
clear and convincing evidence standard does not apply to punitive damages
claims in a motion to strike analysis.  The
3AC pleads ultimate facts demonstrating why a jury should award punitive
damages by demonstrating that Thunder Ridge knew it was overworking Rodriguez,
intentionally did not reduce Rodriguez’s hours or make sure he was not overworked,
and allowed Rodriguez to operate a 30,000-pound tractor-trailer on a public
roadway while fatigued.  The Court should
consider the entirety of the 3AC rather than just the portions Thunder Ridge
cites.  
 
No
reply has been filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Strike - Section 435
A
party may move to strike the whole or any part of a complaint within 30 days
after service of the complaint unless extended by court order or
stipulation.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)  Before filing a motion to
strike, the parties must meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video
conference.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (a).)  The moving party must file
and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which
the moving party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading
subject to the motion to strike, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised by the motion to strike;” or “(B)
That the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike failed to
respond to the meet and confer request of the moving party or otherwise failed
to meet and confer in good faith.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 435.35, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Because Thunder Ridge did not file a meet and confer
declaration and filed this motion after section 435’s 30-day cutoff, the Court
only considers this motion under section 436.
 
            Motion to Strike - Section 436
A
court may, upon motion or at any time, strike from the complaint “any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter” or “all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 436, subds. (a)-(b), 187; Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 822, 830 [noting the court’s inherent power to limit the focus of
the proceedings to the issues framed by the remaining viable pleadings].)  An “irrelevant matter” is an allegation that
“is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense,” “is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)-(c).) 
The Court must read the factual allegations in the complaint as a whole
and assume their truth.  (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  
 
A
motion to strike punitive damages may lie where the alleged facts do not rise
to the level of “malice, fraud, or oppression” required to support punitive
damages.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a complaint must set forth specific facts demonstrating the elements
stated in Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721; see also Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
“Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.”  (Id. at p. 725; Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Oppression
is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) 
Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  “Malice and
oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a defendant’s
conduct.”  (J. R. Norton Co. v.
General Teamsters, Warehousemen & Helpers Union, Local 890 (1989) 208
Cal.App.3d 430, 444.)  
 
“A
corporation may be held liable for punitive damages for the acts of its agents
and employees when the act is motivated by actual malice or done under
circumstances amounting to oppression, providing that the act is done with the
knowledge or under the direction of corporate officials having power to bind
the corporation.”  (Id. at p.
445.)  
 
To
survive a motion to strike, the complaint must plead ultimate facts showing
entitlement to relief.  (Clauson, supra,
67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255; but see Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is
not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”].)  The complaint cannot simply characterize the
Defendant’s conduct as “intentional, willful and fraudulent.”  (See Gombos v. Ashe (1958) 158
Cal.App.2d 517, 526-527; Grieves, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166;
Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  
 
As
an initial matter, a complaint must plead ultimate facts to support a punitive
damages claim.  (Clauson, supra,
79 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255; Antelope Valley Groundwater Cases 59
Cal.App.5th  241, 265 [“[T]he term
‘ultimate fact’ generally refers to a core fact, such as an essential element
of a claim.”].)   
 
The
3AC characterizes Thunder Ridge’s actions as willful, purposeful, and knowing
without alleging specific facts showing Thunder Ridge’s knowledge of
Rodriguez’s relationship with Fames and Thunder Ridge’s intent to consciously
disregard Rodriguez and the general public’s safety.  Plaintiffs allege Thunder Ridge “willfully”
chose to ignore state and federal regulations and the California Commercial
Drivers Handbook concerning commercial drivers with “reckless disregard for the
safety and well-being of the general public.” 
(3AC, ¶¶ 86-87.)  Plaintiffs also
allege Thunder Ridge repeatedly and willfully violated the hours of services
limitation set by the Federal Motor Carrier regulations and took no action to
correct the conduct.  (3AC, ¶ 88.)  Plaintiffs further allege that Thunder Ridge breached
its duty to ensure Rodriguez was qualified to operate a commercial trucking
vehicle and chose Rodriguez to drive a commercial trucking vehicle on public
roads while fatigued.  (3AC, ¶¶ 89, 91.)  Finally, Plaintiffs allege Thunder Ridge
“willfully” failed to perform its nondelegable duty by not ensuring that Fames
delivered mail parcels in a safe manner. 
(3AC, ¶ 90.)  These statements are
legal conclusions which Plaintiffs do not support with specific facts.  
 
Further,
the 3AC does not allege facts sufficient to show that Thunder Ridge had the
requisite knowledge to support a claim for punitive damages.  A corporate entity cannot be held liable for
punitive damages resulting from the acts of its employees or subcontractors
unless, after knowledge or opportunity to learn about the subcontractors’
actions, the corporate entity’s managing agent “retains the wrongdoer in
service.”  (J. R. Norton Co., supra,
208 Cal.App.3d at p. 445 [holding Local Union liable for its team member
because its president knew of the member’s misconduct and failed to investigate
misconduct claims].)  
 
Plaintiffs
do not allege any misconduct by specific Thunder Ridge employees or managing
agents.  Plaintiffs’ allegations that
Thunder Ridge disregarded Rodriguez’s safety, failed to ensure Rodriguez was
qualified, and chose to allow a fatigued Rodriguez to drive are directly contradicted
by Plaintiffs’ own allegations that Fames subcontracted with Montecristo, which
Rodriguez owns, without Thunder Ridge’s consent.  (See 3AC, ¶ 35.)  Thunder Ridge lacked the requisite knowledge of
Rodriguez’s role or alleged misconduct because Thunder Ridge was unaware of
Fames’ contract with Montecristo.  
 
Additionally,
the Court has already found that Thunder Ridge did not hire Rodriguez in its
ruling on Thunder Ridge’s motion for summary judgment.  (See 08/08/2024 – Minute Order at p. 4.)  Thus, Plaintiffs’ allegations that Thunder
Ridge knowingly hired Rodriguez and disregarded Rodriguez’s safety lack merit.  
 
Accordingly,
the 3AC fails to allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive
damages, and the Court grants Thunder Ridge’s motion to strike punitive
damages.
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted.
 
Moving
party to give notice.