..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24GDCV00159
Plaintiff's Name: A.D.
Defendant's Name: La Cañada Unified School District, Carol Cruz, and Does 1-10
People-Names: A.D., Michelle Koolaee, Carol Cruz
Company-Names: La Cañada Unified School District
Places: La Cañada, California
Dates: 2021-2022, January 26, 2024, June 28, 2024
Events: Alleged physical abuse by special education teacher, failure to report child abuse
Money: None
Intentions: To resolve disputes and determine liability
Facts: Allegations of physical abuse, failure to report child abuse, and vicarious liability
Disputes: Demurrer to seventh and eighth causes of action
Acts: Alleged acts of physical abuse, failure to report child abuse
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Civil Code of California
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda, Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power, Berkley v. Dowds, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., Doe v. City of Los Angeles, Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Das v. Bank of America, N.A., Poizner v. Fremont General Corp., John R. v. Oakland Unified School Dist., Alma W. v. Oakland Unified School District, Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital, Michelson v. Hamada, City of Industry v. City of Filmore, Skopp v. Weaver, Jones v. Kmart Corp., B.B. v. County of Los Angeles
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, California Code of Civil Procedure section 815.2, California Code of Civil Procedure section 815.4, Civil Code section 52.1, Civil Code section 51.7
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: The judge's tentative ruling is to overrule the defendant's demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action.
```

The judge's tentative ruling is to overrule the defendant's demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action, which allege violations of the Bane Act and the Ralph Civil Rights Act, respectively. The judge finds that the plaintiff has successfully alleged agency, vicarious liability, and ratification of the defendant's actions, and that the allegations of physical abuse and failure to report child abuse are sufficient to state a cause of action. The judge also finds that the defendant's arguments are unavailing and that the plaintiff has adequately alleged the necessary elements of the causes of action.
