 Case Number:  23GDCV01656    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV01656 Hearing Date:  06/28/2024 – 8:30am Trial Date: 02/10/2025 Case Name: SERGIO DE ALBA SR., an individual;  and RASTER VISUAL MEDIA, LLC, a California Corporation; v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA,  LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; and LAD-MB, LLC, a California  Limited Liability Company d/b/a MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES, and DOES 1-10  inclusive   [TENTATIVE  RULING – MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS]    Moving Party: Defendant, LAD-MB, a  California Limited Liability Company d/b/a Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles   Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Sergio  De Alba Sr. and Raster Visual Media, LLC   Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC  Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok  16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok  Proper Address: Ok   Moving Papers: Notice; Memorandum;  Proposed Order; Proof of Service; Request for Judicial Notice; Declaration of  Brian Leach   Opposition Papers: Opposition;  Serrano Declaration   Reply Papers: Reply   RELIEF REQUESTED   “Defendant LAD-MB, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company d/b/a  MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES will and hereby does move this Court per Cal. Code  of Civ. Proc. § 438 for an order granting judgment on the pleadings against  Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for “Negligent Repair” on the following  grounds:   (1)    Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action  for “Negligent Repair” is a tort claim barred by the Economic Loss Rule, and  therefore, Defendant LAD-MB, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company d/b/a  MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.   This motion shall be based upon this  Notice, and the concurrently filed Memorandum of Points and Authorities,  Request for Judicial Notice and attached exhibit, and the [Proposed] Order, as  well as the complete files and records of this action, and any such other and  further oral and documentary evidence as may be presented at the hearing on  this Motion.”   (Not. p. 1-2.)   BACKGROUND Plaintiffs, Sergio De Alba Sr. and  Raster Visual Media LLC filed the Complaint on 8/7/2023.   The first two causes of action for  (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and (2)  Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty are alleged against  the manufacturer/distributor, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC.   The third cause of action for  negligent repair is alleged against Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles.   Here, the Movant is Defendant  Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles. Of particular importance, the Court notes that  Movant is not the alleged manufacturer/distributor. The instant Movant is the Defendant  that Plaintiffs allegedly delivered the Subject Vehicle to for repairs on  numerous occasions.   Movant seeks an order for judgment  on the pleadings pertaining to the third cause of action for negligent repair.   PROCEDURAL Meet and Confer Before  filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the  moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings  for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the  claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Code  Civ. Proc. § 439(a).)  “A determination by the court that the meet and confer  process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion for  judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP §439(a)(4).) Here, Movant submitted the declaration of Brian Leach.  Leach checked the box that stated, “The party who filed the pleading subject to  demurrer, motion to strike, or motion for judgment on the pleadings failed to respond  to my request to meet and confer or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good  faith.” LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON  THE PLEADINGS If  moving party is a defendant, a motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made  if either of the following conditions exist: (1) The court has no jurisdiction  of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint, or (2) The  complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action  against the defendant. (CCP § 438(c)(1)(B).) “The grounds for motion provided for in this section  shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which  the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is based on a  matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or  453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the notice of  motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may  otherwise permit.” (CCP § 438(d).) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at  any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself. [Citation.]” (Ion  Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.)  “A  motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general  demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings  or by matters that can be judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic  evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud  v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (Citations  Omitted).) The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the  pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,  that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be  judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter  of law. (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th  316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998)  60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)   ANALYSIS Economic-Loss  Rule Defendant argues that the third cause of action  for negligent repair should be dismissed because the economic-loss rule bars  tort liability for contract disputes.   As a preliminary matter, the Court fails to  understand why Defendant is arguing that the third cause of action is a  contract dispute. The third cause of action is for negligent repair, which  appears to be a tort cause of action. Nothing in the allegations pertaining to  the third cause of action in paragraphs 50 – 53 of the Complaint mention a  contract.   Defendant also argues that the negligent repair  action is “barred by the Economic Loss Rule because tort-based claims cannot  survive in the absence of personal injuries or property damage to property  other than the subject vehicle.” (Mot. p. 4.) What is confusing about  Defendant’s argument here is that despite referring to “tort-based claims,”  Defendant puts this argument under a section in its motion where it refers to the  third cause of action as a contract dispute. (See Mot. p. 4.)   Defendant relies on Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc.  v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979 (Robinson) to support its  argument on the economic loss rule. Defendant’s argument that the negligent  repair cause of action should be dismissed based on Robinson is  unavailing for several reasons that the Court will discuss below. In Robinson a helicopter manufacturer brought  action against a parts supplier for breach of contract, breach of warranty, and  intentional and negligent misrepresentation after the supplier changed  manufacturing process for helicopter clutches, which resulted in an increased  failure rate. Robinson summarized the economic loss rule as follows: Economic loss consists of “ ‘ “ ‘damages  for inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement of the defective product  or consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages  to other property....’ ” ' [Citation.]” (Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002)  29 Cal.4th 473, 482, 127 Cal.Rptr.2d 614, 58 P.3d 450.) Simply  stated, the economic loss rule provides: “ ‘ “[W]here a purchaser's  expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not  working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has  suffered only ‘economic’ losses.” ' This doctrine hinges on a distinction  drawn between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes  where economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and  those involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are  injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law  of torts.” (Neibarger v. Universal Cooperatives, Inc. (1992)  439 Mich. 512, 486 N.W.2d 612, 615, fns. omitted.) The economic loss rule  requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to  disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a  broken contractual promise.  (Redarowicz v. Ohlendorf (1982)  92 Ill.2d 171, 65 Ill.Dec. 411, 441 N.E.2d 324, 327.) Quite simply, the  economic loss rule “prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of tort from  dissolving one into the other.” (Rich Products Corp. v. Kemutec,  Inc. (E.D.Wis.1999) 66 F.Supp.2d 937, 969.) In Jimenez v. Superior Court,  supra, 29 Cal.4th 473, 127 Cal.Rptr.2d 614, 58 P.3d  450, we set forth the rationale for the economic loss rule: “ ‘The  distinction that the law has drawn between tort recovery for physical  injuries and warranty recovery for economic loss is not arbitrary and does not  rest on the “luck” of one plaintiff in having an accident causing physical  injury. The distinction rests, rather, on an understanding of the nature of the  responsibility a manufacturer must undertake in distributing his products.’  [Citation.] We concluded that the nature of this responsibility meant that a  manufacturer could appropriately be held liable for physical injuries  (including both personal injury and damage to property other than the product  itself), regardless of the terms of any warranty. [Citation.] But the  manufacturer could not be held liable for ‘the level of performance of his  products in the consumer's business unless he agrees that the product was  designed to meet the consumer's demands.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at  p. 482, 127 Cal.Rptr.2d 614, 58 P.3d 450.) (Robinson Helicopter  Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988-989.) Defendant’s argument  about Robinson is unavailing because it would appear that Robinson is  not controlling here nor directly applicable because it involved the  applicability of the economic loss rule to fraud claims, not to negligent  repair claims. “In this case, we decide whether the economic loss rule, which  in some circumstances bars a tort action in the absence of personal injury or  physical damage to other property, applies to claims for intentional  misrepresentation or fraud in the performance of a contract.” (Robinson at  984.) Further, with respect to Robinson,  the Supreme Court of California ruled that “We hold the economic loss rule does  not bar Robinson’s fraud and intentional misrepresentation claims because they  were independent of Dana’s breach of contract.” (Robinson at 991 citing Erlich  v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th  543,  552-554.) Here, while it is unclear if Robinson even applies in the  instant context for negligent repair, the negligent repair cause of action  appears to be rooted in tort and Plaintiff did not allege a contract with  respect to negligent repair. Additionally, the Court  has its doubts about the applicability of Robinson because it mentions  “[w]here a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated because the  product he bought is not working properly…” (Robinson at 988.) Here, the  Plaintiff’s negligent repair action against the Movant has nothing to do with  purchasing a product that is not working properly. The third cause of action is  not alleged against the manufacturer. The third cause of action is alleged  against Movant for failing to properly repair the Subject Vehicle. Movant here  seems to be confused and acts as if the third cause of action pertains to the  manufacturer/distributor, which it does not. The third cause of action is only  alleged against Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles which is not alleged to be the  manufacturer/distributor. Component Part Exception Defendant  also argues that the component part exception to the economic loss rule does  not apply. Defendant relies on Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002) 29  Cal.4th 473 (Jimenez). Defendant argues that the exception cannot and  will not apply in this case because the allegations only involve manufacturing  defects in “electrical and suspension system defects” of an allegedly defective  motor vehicle. Here, the Court is not  convinced about either party’s arguments on the component part exception. First, the Court has its  doubts about either party’s reliance on Jimenez because in Jimenez,  homeowners filed a class action against manufacturers of windows installed in  certain mass produced homes, alleging that the windows were defective and  caused damage to other  parts of the  homes. Here, the negligent repair action is not alleged against the  manufacturer of the vehicle. While Jimenez held that the manufacturer of  a defective window installed in a mass-produced home may be held strictly  liable in tort for damage that the window’s defect causes to other parts of the  home in which it is installed (See Jimenez at 484), this appears to have  no affect on the third cause of action for negligent repair alleged against the  company that repaired the Subject Vehicle.  Opposition - Professional  Services In  Opposition, Plaintiffs cite Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12  Cal.5th  905, 922 to argue that there is  a recognized exception to the economic loss rule for consumers who contract for  certain kinds of professional services. Opposition also relied on North  American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764 to argue  that the economic loss rule does not apply to cases involving the negligent  performance of services. Opposition also cited Velasco v. Ford Motor Co. (USDC S.D. Cal. 2022) 2002 WL  2287258 because it was a federal district court case that held that the  component part exception applies for a negligent repair cause of action in  Song-Beverly cases. Here, the Court will not address whether the Plaintiffs’ Opposition  arguments were on point because moving Defendant did not establish that  Plaintiffs cannot allege a cause of action for negligent repair. Therefore,  whether or not Plaintiffs’ Opposition arguments are directly on point, at the  very least Defendant has not shown that Plaintiffs cannot allege a cause of  action for negligent repair. Negligence Movant admits that the elements for  negligent repair are the same elements for negligence. “The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well  established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such  legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the  resulting injury.” (Def. Mot. p. 6 citing Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996)  12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) Here, Plaintiffs alleged: 50.  Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference each and every allegation contained  in the preceding and succeeding paragraphs as through herein fully restated and  re-alleged.  51.  Plaintiffs delivered the Subject Vehicle to Defendant MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS  ANGELES for repairs on numerous occasions.  52.  Defendant MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES owed a duty to Plaintiffs to use  ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation, and repair of the Subject  Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.  53.  Defendant MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES breached its duty to Plaintiffs to  ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store, prepare, and repair of  the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.  Defendant  MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES’s negligent breach of its duties owed to  Plaintiffs were a proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ damages. (Compl. ¶¶ 50-53.) Here, Plaintiffs alleged all elements of negligent repair.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not allege how, if at  all, Defendant failed to properly store the vehicle, or prepare the vehicle, or  repair the vehicle. The Court does not find this argument availing because  Defendant cited no case law in the MJOP wherein a heightened pleading standard  is required for negligent repair with respect to these issues that Defendant  argues must be alleged. TENTATIVE RULING Defendant’s  motion for judgment on the pleadings that is directed at the third cause of  action for negligent repair is DENIED. Defendant did not come forth with  authorities that supported its argument that Plaintiffs cannot allege a  negligent repair cause of action. Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged the elements  of negligent repair.    Case No: 23GDCV01656
Hearing Date:  06/28/2024 – 8:30am

Trial Date: 02/10/2025

Case Name: SERGIO DE ALBA SR., an individual;
and RASTER VISUAL MEDIA, LLC, a California Corporation; v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA,
LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; and LAD-MB, LLC, a California
Limited Liability Company d/b/a MERCEDES-BENZ OF LOS ANGELES, and DOES 1-10
inclusive

 

[TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER] 

BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs, Sergio De Alba Sr. and
Raster Visual Media LLC filed the Complaint on 8/7/2023.

 

The first two causes of action for
(1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and (2)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty are alleged against
the manufacturer/distributor, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC.

 

The third cause of action for
negligent repair is alleged against Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles.

 

RELIEF REQUESTED 
“Plaintiffs Sergio De Alba Sr. and Raster Visual Media, LLC. (“Plaintiffs”)
will, and hereby do, move for an order to overruling Defendant Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC’s (“Defendant” or “MBUSA”) meritless objections to Plaintiffs’ Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, numbers 1-31 (“RFPs”), and compelling
further objection-free responses and production.

 

Plaintiffs bring this Motion
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivisions
(a)(3), on the grounds that Defendant’s boilerplate objections to Plaintiffs’
initial set of RFPs are without any merit and were served only for improper
dilatory purposes to obstruct discoverable information and responsive materials
that are relevant to Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly claims under the Song-Beverly
Act. (LAS Decl., ¶¶ 15-21.) 

 

Further Notice is given, that
Plaintiffs seek sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
2031.310, subdivision (h) and 2023,030, subdivision (a) of the Code of Civil
Procedure, for Defendant’s misuse of the Discovery Act on the grounds that its
meritless objections were only served for improper dilatory and obstruction
purposes and thus no substantial justification nor colorful argument exists.
(LAS Decl., ¶¶ 22-26.) 

 

In an effort to avoid motion
practice, Plaintiffs made multiple attempts to meet and confer in good faith
over Defendant’s baseless objections, in accordance with the Court’s Order
following its denial of MBUSA’s Motion to Compel Arbitration on April 26, 2024.
Plaintiffs’ efforts, however, fell on deaf ears. Given Defendant’s refusal to
supplement its responses and produce relevant documents, Plaintiffs are forced
to seek this Court’s intervention. Accordingly, Plaintiffs seek an order
overruling Defendant’s meritless objections and compelling responses and
production to Plaintiffs’ RFPs. (LAS Decl., ¶¶ 14-25.)

 

The Motion is based upon this
Notice, the following Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Separate
Statement, the Declaration of Luis Serrano, the papers on file, and upon any
other matters that may be presented to the Court at the hearing.”

 

(Pl. Mot. p. 2-3.)

 

Procedural

Moving Party: Plaintiffs, Sergio De Alba
Sr. and Raster Visual Media, LLC

 

Responding Party: Defendant,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC

 

Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC
Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok

 

Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Separate Statement; Serrano Declaration; Proposed Order

 

Opposition Papers: Opposition; Gallagher
Declaration; Cinquepalmi Declaration; Separate Statement

 

Reply Papers: Reply; Serrano
Declaration; Objection to Cinquepalmi Declaration

 

TENTATIVE RULING



45-Day Deadline
Defendant’s Opposition argues that
the instant motion should be denied because it is untimely by at least 121 days.
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not file the motion to compel further
responses within 45 days of service of Defendant’s initial responses, thus
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not meet the 45-day timeliness requirement
of CCP § 2031.310(c) 

 

While the Court is not commenting on
precisely how many days late the instant motion is, the Court agrees that it is
safe to say that Plaintiffs’ motion is not timely under § 2031.310(c).

 

“Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.”
(CCP § 2031.310(c).)

 

As a preliminary matter, case law
seems to indicate that not complying with the timeliness requirement of a
motion to compel further responses is proper grounds to deny a motion to compel
further responses.

 

Deyo v. Kilbourne states the following:

 

If answers or objections are on file, and the propounding
party deems that further response is required, he must file a motion to compel
further answers within 30 days after the date of service of answers or
objections, unless there is a stipulation extending time, or the court, on
motion and notice, and for good cause shown, enlarges the time. Otherwise, the
party is deemed to have waived the right to compel further answers. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030, subd.(a).) 

 

This statue is mandatory and a court may not entertain a
belated motion to compel. (O’Brien v. Superior Court, supra).19

 

(Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 788; Footnote 19 states, “In O'Brien, the court said: “In the
absence of any showing to the contrary, it is unnecessary to decide whether or
not a party may be relieved of failure to make a timely motion, or under what
circumstances such relief might be granted.” [O'Brien v. Superior Court,
supra, 233 Cal.App.2d 388, 391, 43 Cal.Rptr. 815, 816.]”.)

 

Further, as stated in Sexton v.
Superior Court:

 

We find it significant the 1986 amendments of sections
2030, subdivision (l ) and 2031, subdivision (l ) did
not include the earlier provision of section 2030 subdivision
(a) allowing the court on motion and for good cause to extend the time for
making a motion to compel further answers to interrogatories. The elimination
of the pre–1986 law which gave authority to extend the time for making a motion
to compel further answers indicates an intention by the Legislature not to vest
any authority in the court to permit discovery that is not timely made. The
language of sections 2030, subdivision (l ) and 2031,
subdivision (l ) could not be clearer: “Unless notice of this
motion is given within 45 days of the service of the response, or any
supplemental response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
[propounding/demanding] party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the [propounding/demanding] party waives any right to compel a further response
to the inspection demand [or the interrogatories].”

 

It is also significant that both provisions are identical in
their operative parts as relevant to the time for making a motion to compel.
Again, the analysis of the Professional Career Colleges court
is instructive: “This pattern [of the 1986 amendments] of restrictions,
sanctions, and the attempt to force cooperation clearly evinces the legislative
intent that discovery proceed not only smoothly, but swiftly as well. Indeed,
this goal has been expressly stated with reference to the civil justice system
as a whole in the Trial Court Delay Reduction Act of 1986, Government Code
section 68600 et seq.” (Professional Career Colleges, Magna Institute,
Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at pp.
493–494, 255 Cal.Rptr. 5.) Given the symmetry of section 2030,
subdivision (l ) and 2031, subdivision (l ),
we conclude that *1410 the time within which to make a motion
to compel production of documents is mandatory and jurisdictional just as it is
for motions to compel further answers to interrogatories.

 

(Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409-1410.)

 

The Court notes that although both Deyo
and Sexton dealt with older versions of the instant statute and the
statutes in Deyo and Sexton were repealed, it appears that those
cases stand for the proposition that motions to compel further responses must
be timely filed. 

 

Further, the Reply does not point to
any legal authority or case law that overruled the general premise that the Court
can deny a motion to compel further on grounds that the motion is untimely.

 

Here, according to
Movant/Plaintiffs, the instant discovery was propounded on October 4, 2023. According
to Defendant, the discovery was served on October 5, 2023. Both parties agree
that responses were served on November 7, 2023. Both parties also agree that
responses consisted of objections only.

 

The instant motion was filed and
served on May 21, 2024, which is clearly not filed or served within 45 days of  service of the responses that were served on
November 7, 2023.

 

The arguments that the Plaintiffs
assert in Reply are detailed below, and the Court explains below why they are
unavailing. 

 

Plaintiffs argue that on October 16,
2023, this case and discovery was stayed because Defendant filed a motion to
compel arbitration on October 16, 2023.

 

This argument is unavailing, and Plaintiffs’
counsel’s argument about when the stay went into effect is unpersuasive.

 

Plaintiffs’ attempt to argue that
the stay was in effect on October 16, 2023 when Defendant filed its motion to
compel arbitration is unavailing. “The filing of a petition to compel
arbitration does not automatically stay ongoing proceedings; the party seeking
arbitration must request one.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
140 citing Brock v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1790, 12796.) 

 

Plaintiffs also attempt to argue
that Defendant’s discovery responses on November 7, 2023 indicated that the
instant action was stayed based on the filing of the motion to compel
arbitration. This argument is also unavailing. 

 

In Defendant’s objection-only
responses, the last sentence of each response stated in relevant part, “This
responding party further objects on the basis that this matter is subject to
binding arbitration, and discovery should be stayed per the motion to compel
arbitration that has been filed.” (See responses to RFPs)

 

For Plaintiffs to argue that a
response in a discovery request is what determines whether or not a stay is in
effect is not persuasive. 

 

Further, the responses stated that
the discovery “should” be stayed per the motion to compel arbitration that has
been filed. The responses did not state that discovery was in fact stayed. Plaintiffs’
argument here is, again, unavailing.

 

Plaintiffs also point the Court to
the Court’s language in the 4/26/2024 Minute Order which was the date the Court
heard the motion to compel arbitration and case management conference.

 

“Counsel are ordered to meet and
confer live (in person/videoconference/teleconference) in the next 30 days to
discuss potential resolution, Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), resolve
outstanding discovery issues, and discuss the items listed in California Rules
of Court 3.724.” (4/26/2024 Min. Order, p. 6.)

 

Plaintiffs argument isn’t entirely
clear, but Plaintiffs appear to be arguing that since the Court made the
aforementioned statement, Plaintiffs thus had authority to bring the instant motion
to compel further responses. 

 

Plaintiffs argue that when the Court
ordered Defendant on 4/26/2024 to meet and confer with Plaintiffs to “resolve
discovery disputes,” Defendant chose to remain silent and made no effort to at
least serve amended responses following the filing of the instant motion.

 

The Court does not find this
argument availing. 

 

The 4/26/2024 Case Management
Conference was not a hearing on the instant motion to compel further responses.


 

Just because the Court ordered the parties
to meet and confer and attempt resolve outstanding discovery issues, that in no
way binds the Court on how it must rule on future noticed motions that come
before it. 

 

Further, the Court fails to see how
Defendant not making its 45-day timeliness argument at the case management
conference is legally relevant. The case management conference was not the
hearing on the instant motion to compel further responses.

 

Therefore, Plaintiffs’ attempts to
argue that the instant case, or discovery, was stayed earlier than April 2,
2024 are unavailing. The April 2, 2024 Minute Order stated, “The case is
ordered stayed per ccp 1281.4 without objection pending decision on motion to
compel arbitration.” That is the only record indicating when the case was
stayed. 

 

Both parties concede that responses were
served on October 7, 2023. Plaintiffs did not notice this motion within the
45-day requirement of CCP § 2031.310(c).) 

 

Thus, Plaintiffs did not comply with
the timeliness requirement of § 2031.310(c), and Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED as
untimely.

 

Sanctions
Except as provided in subdivision
(j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (CCP § 2031.310(h).)

 

Plaintiffs argue that sanctions
should be imposed against Defendant in the amount of $4,444.50.

 

The Court will not impose sanctions
against Defendant because Plaintiffs were the ones who unsuccessfully made this
motion.

 

Defendant in Opposition seeks
sanctions in the amount of $2,100.00 be imposed against Plaintiffs and
Plaintiffs’ counsel. 

 

The Court will hear argument.

 

 

 

 