 Case Number:  23GDCV01143    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 6/28/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.  23GDCV01143
Trial Date:   02/24/2025
Case Name: DALIA FORMICA v. ADVENTIST HEALTH GLENDALE; CHERYL LEE JANG,
M.D.; HELIA GABRIELLA LAFTAVI, PA-C; and DOES 1-100 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED 
“Plaintiff DALIA FORMICA BY AND THROUGH HER GUARDIAN AD LITEM, NATALIE LA SCALA
will seek leave to file a First Amended Complaint to add a cause of action for
Elder Abuse/Neglect against all Defendants. Plaintiff’s counsel recently
consulted their expert who opined, among other things, that Plaintiff was
denied necessary medical treatment and care such that it was tantamount to
elder abuse. Plaintiff now seeks to amend her complaint accordingly. Trial is
currently in February 2025. Discovery is in its infancy. Defendants will have
sufficient time to conduct discovery and pursue any dispositive motions in this
regard. There can be no prejudice to Defendants as the new cause of action
arises out of the events alleged in the operative complaint.
 
Pursuant to Rule 3.1324 of the
California Rules of Court, a copy of the [Proposed] First Amended Complaint is
attached and is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit “1”.
 
Pursuant to Rule 3.1324 of the
California Rules of Court, the proposed allegations to be added to the First
Amended Complaint are as follows: 
1. A third cause of action. 
2. New paragraphs 38-47 and 
3. Prayer paragraphs 4-6
 
The new paragraphs allege facts to
support elder abuse/neglect and a statutory right to enhanced remedies,
attorneys’ fees and punitive damages. The allegations were not brought sooner
as Plaintiff just learned through her expert of the facts supporting such a
cause of action. As soon as the facts were learned, within a week, this motion
was prepared. The trial is a year out. The discovery has just begun.
 
Said motion shall be based on this
notice, the memorandum of points and authorities, the declaration of John H.
Kalpakchian, the proposed first amended complaint, the court file and
pleadings, and such other and further arguments as may be heard at the hearing.”
 
(Pl. Mot. p. 1-2.)
 
PRELIMINARY PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiff, Dalia
Formica by and through her Guardian Ad Litem, Natalie La Scala
 
Responding Party: Defendants, Cheryl
Lee Jang, M.D. and Helia Gabriella Laftavi, PA-C
 
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC
Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition filed
on 6/10/2024 for Defendants Cheryl Lee Jang, M.D. and Helia Gabriella Laftavi,
PA-C
 
Reply Papers: Reply filed 6/20/2024
at 4:01pm
 
Miscellaneous: After the Reply was submitted,
on 6/20/2024 at 4:20pm, Defendant Glendale Adventist Medical Center dba
Adventist Health Glendale (erroneously named and served herein as Adventist
Health Glendale) filed a notice of joinder to Defendants Charyl Lee Jang, M.D.
and Helia Gabriella Laftavi’s Opposition.
 
Miscellaneous: After the notice of
joinder was filed, on 6/21/2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to the notice of joinder

 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
filed the original Complaint on 6/2/2023 alleging two causes of action against
Defendants (Adventist Health Glendale; Cheryl Lee Jang, M.D.; and Helia
Gabriella Laftavi, PA-C) for (1) Professional Negligence and (2) Negligent
Hiring and Retention.
 
The
allegations in this action arise from an incident wherein Plaintiff was
involved in a vehicle collision and was rendered on scene emergency medical
attention and required to be transported for trauma care to Glendale Adventist
Medical Center. Plaintiff allegedly went under the custodial care in the emergency
department of Defendants Cheryl Lee Jang, M.D. and Helia Gabriella Laftavi,
PA-C.
 
Plaintiff
now seeks leave to amend to add a cause of action for Elder Abuse/Neglect, to seek
enhanced remedies based on Welfare & Institutions Code §§ 15610.57 and 15657,
to seek attorney’s fees on the elder abuse claim, and to add punitive damages
on the elder abuse claim.

 
LEGAL STANDARD – LEAVE TO
AMEND
The
court may, in furtherance of justice and on any proper terms, allow a party to
amend any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v.
Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235,
242.)  The court may also, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at
242.) Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between
the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy
in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v.
ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts
are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].)  Leave to amend
is thus liberally granted, provided there is no statute of
limitations concern.  (Kolani v. Gluska (1998)
64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)  The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave
to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial,
loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation.  (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Further, a separate supporting declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).) 
“Leave to amend is in
general required to be liberally granted [citation omitted], provided there is
no statute of limitations concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is
prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence,
or added costs of preparation. [citation omitted].” (Kolani v. Gluska (1998)
64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) 

PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS


Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)   include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
Here, Plaintiff attached as Exhibit 1 a
proposed First Amended Complaint.
(2)   state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
Here, this requirement is
not applicable because Plaintiff is seeking to add allegations, not delete
allegations.
(3)   state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Here, Plaintiff’s notice of motion indicates that
Plaintiff seeks to add a cause of action for Elder Abuse/Neglect. Further, the
notice of motion indicates it will be the third cause of action and where the
paragraphs will be added. The notice of motion also indicates Plaintiff seeks
to add enhanced remedies, attorneys’ fees, and punitive damages. While
Plaintiff does not indicate page numbers or line numbers, Plaintiff
sufficiently indicated what will be added by indicating the paragraphs where
the new allegations will be added. Further, Opposition did not argue that this
requirement was not met. Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently met this
requirement.
CRC 3.1324(b)
Further, under CRC 3.1324(b), a separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1)   the
effect of the amendment;
Plaintiff attaches the declaration of attorney John H.
Kalpakchian. In relevant part, Kalpakchian states, “The effect of the new cause
of action is to add a claim for elder abuse/neglect which subjects the
defendants to heightened remedies, attorney’s fees and punitive damages.”
(Kalpakchian Decl. ¶ 19.)
(2)   why
the amendment is necessary and proper; 
The Kalpakchian declaration does not address this requirement.
However, why the amendment is necessary and proper appears to be self-evident.
Further, the Opposition did not argue that this requirement was not met. 
(3)   when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered;
Here, Plaintiff’s
declaration does not address this requirement in any clear manner. In ¶ 20 of
the Kalpakchian Declaration, Kalpakchian states that he was not aware of the
bases for the cause of action when he filed the original complaint. Kalpakchian
further states, “The allegations were not brought sooner as Plaintiff just
learned through her expert of the facts supporting such a cause of action. As
soon as the facts were learned, within a week, this motion was prepared.”
(Kalpakchian Decl. ¶ 18.) Therefore, presumably, if this motion was brought
within a week of learning the facts, and since this motion was filed on
5/28/2024, it appears as if the facts were discovered approximately a week
before 5/28/2024.
 
The Opposition
accurately points out that there are no new facts that were not previously
known to Plaintiff at the time she filed the original Complaint. 
 
The Reply’s
attempt to argue there are new facts that they discovered after the filing of
the initial Complaint are unavailing, as the Reply simply indicates that the
basis of the third cause of action was “not appreciated” until after meeting
with their emergency room expert.
 
Therefore,
Opposition appears to be correct that Plaintiff knew all the alleged facts at
the time of filing and that Plaintiff simply seeks to add the third cause of
action because an expert opined to counsel on the original facts that
Plaintiff’s counsel already knew.
 
All that being
said, Opposition does not provide any case law that this is grounds for denying
a motion for leave to amend. 
 
Judicial policy
favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore,
the courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal
allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of
great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse party will not be
prejudiced.”].)  
 
(4)   the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier must accompany the
motion. (Id., rule 3.1324(b).) 
Here, the Kalpakchian Declaration stated, “The
allegations were not brought sooner as Plaintiff just learned through her
expert of the facts supporting such a cause of action. As soon as the facts
were learned, within a week, this motion was prepared. The trial is in February
2025. Discovery is in its infancy.” (Kalpakchian Decl. ¶ 18.)
SUBSTANTIVE ANALYSIS
The
majority of the Opposition is devoted to attacking the merits as to why a claim
for Elder Abuse/Neglect cannot be alleged under the instant circumstances. The Opposition
cites several cases that allegedly support its argument that: (1) there was no
evidence of a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship by the physician
defendants; (2) the Elder Abuse Act does not apply every time a physician
treats a patient;  and (3) there are no
facts evidencing neglect. 
As to whether or not the Plaintiff can, or did, allege
a claim for Elder Abuse/Neglect, the Court does not find this proceeding the
appropriate time to determine this. Whether or not the Plaintiff can allege a
cause of action for elder abuse or whether the Plaintiff’s proposed FAC does
allege a cause of action for elder abuse would more properly be addressed in a
different type of motion. (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (“[T]he preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.”).
“Leave to amend is in general required to be liberally
granted [citation omitted], provided there is no statute of limitations
concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. [citation omitted].” (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) 
The Opposition also argues that discovery is well
underway and leave to amend would result in prejudice to them. The Opposition
argues that Defendants have already taken the deposition of Plaintiff’s GAL and
have begun robust discovery under the assumption that development of their
defense was with regard to allegations of professional negligence.
The Court does not find the Opposition’s argument on
prejudice availing. The trial is set for 2/24/2025. As the Reply points out,
Defendants still have time to conduct further discovery as to the allegations
of the new cause of action. Further, Plaintiff’s Reply indicates that if
Defendants feel they need to depose the GAL as to the new allegations, Plaintiff
indicates they would be more than happy to meet and confer with counsel to
craft an agreement on the issue and limited deposition if needed.
Joinder
Defendant,
Glendale Adventist Medical Center dba Adventist Health Glendale (erroneously
named and served herein as Adventist Health Glendale) filed an untimely notice
of joinder to the Opposition. Plaintiff objected to the untimely notice of
joinder. 
The Court notes that whether or not it accepts the
notice of joinder, this has no effect on the ruling for this motion because the
Court plans to grant Plaintiff’s motion. Further, the notice of joinder did not
set forth any arguments, it simply joined the already filed Opposition.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to file its First Amended Complaint within 10 days of the Court’s
order.