 Case Number:  22GDCV00999    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  E 22GDCV00999
ALBERTO FONSECA RAMIREZ vs.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, A DELAWARE CORPORATION, et al.
Dept. E, Glendale Courthouse

6/27/24

 
Final
Status Conference: Rulings on motions in limine
                On
today’s date, the court heard argument from counsel on the various motions in
limine (“MILs”) and issued rulings on all of the MILs with the exception of
Defendant’s MIL No. 2, which the Court took under submission.
                The
Court now issues its rulings on the Defendant’s MIL No. 2, and sets out the
rulings made on the record on the other MILs:
 
1.      Defendant’s
MIL No. 2: The motion is DENIED without prejudice.  
 
This is a
tentative pretrial evidentiary ruling. (See People v. Holloway (2004) 33
Cal.4th 96, 134.)    
 
The Court has
reviewed the parties’ briefs, arguments, and additional authorities.
 
The Court
concludes that the parties will be able to address the issue of willfulness for
the purpose of civil penalties at trial. Should the evidence not support a
finding of willfulness, the defense can address that at trial through argument and
through the jury instructions. (Civ. Code, § 1794(c); Schreidel v. American
Honda Motor Co. (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250 [a manufacturer's
noncompliance with the Act is willful when it knows of its obligations but “intentionally”
fails to fulfill them]; cf. Kwan v. Mercedes–Benz of North America
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 185 [“[A] violation is not willful if the
defendant's failure to replace or refund was the result of a good faith and
reasonable belief [that] the facts imposing the statutory obligation were not
present.”].) 
 
The defendant is
free to renew this motion at a later time. 
The Court may sua sponte revisit this motion.  (See id.) 
 
 
2.      The
Court ruled on the other MILs as follows:
 
a.     
Plaintiff’s MILs
                                                             
i.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 1: Denied without prejudice
                                                            
ii.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 2: Denied without prejudice
                                                          
iii.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 3: Granted
                                                          
iv.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 4: Granted
                                                            
v.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 5: Denied without prejudice
                                                          
vi.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 6: Granted
                                                        
vii.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 7: Granted
                                                       
viii.     
Pl.’s MIL No.8: Denied without prejudice
                                                          
ix.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 9: Granted
                                                            
x.     
Pl.’s MIL No. 10: Denied without prejudice
 
b.     
Defendant’s MILs
                                                             
i.     
Def.’s MIL No. 1: Granted
                                                            
ii.     
Def.’s MIL No. 2: Denied (see above)
                                                          
iii.     
Def.’s MIL No. 3: Denied without prejudice
                                                          
iv.     
Def.’s MIL No. 4: Defer ruling
                                                            
v.     
Def.’s MIL No. 5: Granted
These are
tentative pretrial evidentiary rulings. (See People v. Holloway (2004)
33 Cal.4th 96, 134.)  The parties are
free to renew these motions at a later time. 
The Court may sua sponte revisit any of these motions.  (See id.) 
The plaintiff’s
oral request, made at today’s hearing, to continue the trial dates given their
experts’ unavailability (for reasons not specified) was denied by the Court for
a lack of good cause. Plaintiff’s counsel stated that the plaintiff’s experts
were unavailable during the trial dates, but further stated that he did not
know the reason for his experts’ unavailability.
                Counsel
of record are ordered to meet and confer telephonically within the next two
business days to discuss discovery, outstanding issues regarding jury
instructions and the verdict form, potential stipulations, and potential
resolution.
                Counsel
are further ordered to advise the Court immediately if a resolution is reached and
a jury panel need not be ordered for July 8, 2024.
The jury trial
in this matter will proceed at 10:30 a.m. on July 8, 2024 in Department E of
the Glendale Courthouse.
Notice has been
given to the parties via electronic posting of this ruling and the posting of
this ruling in a minute order of today’s date.