

 
            This
is a habitability case brought by thirty-eight residential tenants who rent, or
have rented, units in a building located at 215 West Sixth Street in downtown
Los Angeles (Property).
 
            Plaintiffs
Michael Laguerre, Robert Alvin Johnson, Kerry-Ann Morrison, Joselyn Garcia,
Alexander Mattera, Whitney Coss, Eric Bradley, Arman Musakhanyan, Damaris
Cervantes, John Michael Triana, Jamar Hart, Natali Babiyans, Jamal Shakir,
Alisa Garrett, Keith Thomas, Thomas Syrowski, Justin Goslee, Jasmyme Cannick,
Giovanna Dagostino, Alex Onofre, Jennifer Bailey, Matthew Dutcher, Kevin
Reeves, Jacqwel Brown, Jaida Kyi, Daniel Kirkland, Nathaniel Salgo, Devante
Roper, D’Marques Riley, Mario Foster, Brandie Rossi, Boston Osborne, Samantha
Bran, Paul Martignetti, Sherrtl Grant, Lam Vu, Jas Jeffress, Jean Juste
(collectively, Plaintiffs) sued their landlord, Manhattan Loft, LLC (Manhattan
Loft) and its alleged agents, Erica Rivera and Pam Pham-Le.
 
            The
operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleges numerous causes of action, including
breach of contract, breach of implied warranty of habitability, breach of quiet
enjoyment, and violations of state and local tenant protections. 
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that during their tenancies, Defendants knowingly permitted Property to subsist
in an untenantable condition. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege the Property
suffered from numerous health and safety code violations, including vermin infestation,
dangerous elevators, mold growth, offensive odor, and overall dilapidation.
They also allege Defendants abused and harassed them when they tried to assert
their rights, including through physical threats and attempts to illegally
evict them.
 
            On
January 11, 2023, the Court heard Defendant Manhattan Loft’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’
Complaint; Defendant Manhattan Loft demurred to eighteen of Plaintiffs’
twenty-eight cause of action. The Court overruled the demurrer as to nine causes
of action, sustained with leave as to eight causes of action, sustained without
leave as to one cause of action. 
 
            Manhattan
Loft demurred again to the First Amended Complaint. On May 15, 2023, the Court
overruled the demurrer to three causes of action, sustained without leave to
three causes of action, and sustained with leave as to sixteenth and
twenty-first causes of action.
 
            On June 5,
2023, the Second Amended Complaint was filed. On July 5, 2023, Defendant Manhattan
Lofts demurred to the sixteenth and twenty-first causes of action. Plaintiffs
opposed the demurrer. The Court sustained the demurrer to the sixteenth and
twenty-first cause of action. 
 
            On June 21,
2022, Cross-Complainants SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2, LLC, SBDTLA 3, LLC and SBDTLA
4, LLC (SB Entities) filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Manhattan
Lofts for (1.) contractual indemnity, (2.) equitable indemnity, (3) declaratory
relief, and (4.) equitable contribution. 
 
            Now,
Cross-Complainants SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2, LLC, SBDTLA 3, LLC and SBDTLA 4,
LLC (SB
Entities) move for summary adjudication of four issues. Cross-Defendant Manhattan Lofts opposes the motion.
 
            The
motion for summary adjudication is denied as to all issues. 
 
Evidentiary Issues:
 
 Manhattan Loft’s objections to SB Entities’ evidence
are ruled as follows: No. 1-4 is sustained. 
 
SB
Entities’ request for judicial notice in reply is denied. The preliminary
ruling on a writ of attachment to this unrelated superior court case is not
relevant. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of material fact exists if the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467; Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Cross-Complainant
SB Entities seek summary adjudication of various duties to defend and indemnify
against Cross-Defendant Manhattan Lofts arising from the parties Purchase and
Sale Agreement (PSA) and/or Assignment of Leases (AOL).
 
Issue No. 1:
 
The motion for summary adjudication seeks
adjudication of the following issue:
 
Issue
No. 1: There is no triable issue of material fact that Manhattan Loft, LLC
(“Manhattan”) has a duty to indemnify and defend the SB Entities pursuant to,
and in the manner set forth in Section 6.1(c) of the Purchase and Sale
Agreement and Escrow Instructions dated November 2, 2021, as amended on various
dates (the “PSA”), and/or Section 1.3 of the Assignment of Leases dated April
6, 2022 (the “AOL”).
 
As a preliminary matter,
Cross-Defendant Manhattan Lofts argues that is not a proper issue for summary
adjudication, citing Regan Roofing Co. v. Superior Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 425, 437. In Regan, the court held that an adjudication of duty
must completely dispose of a claim or defense to be a proper basis for summary
adjudication.
 
In response, SB Entities argue
that Regan Roofing Co. was rejected by Linden Partners v. Wilshire
Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508 and further argues the duty to
defend and duty to indemnify are proper issues of summary adjudication. SB
Entities further attempt to clarify the issue for adjudication in reply.
Specifically, the Reply argues Issue No. 1 “will resolve whether Manhattan owes
the indemnity and defense duties stated in Section 6.1(c) of the PSA to the SB
Entities as the valid assignees of Laguna’s rights and obligations under the
PSA.” (Reply 7:4-6.) 
 
The issue is not a proper
issue for summary adjudication. In reaching this conclusion, the Court does not
rely on Regan Roofing Co. v. Superior Court (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 425,
but instead relies on well-established law on ruling on issues for summary
adjudication. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure,
section 437c, subdivision (f)(1), provides that “[a] party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, ..., or one
or more issues of duty, if that party contends ... that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
 
“A motion for summary
adjudication tenders only those issues or causes of action specified in the
notice of motion, and may only be granted as to the matters thus specified.” (Schmidlin
v. City of Palo Alto (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 728, 743–744.)   The
moving party must “state[ ] specifically in the notice of motion and ...
repeat[ ], verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts,”
“the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or
issues of duty” as to which summary adjudication is sought. (See Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).) Moreover, as noted above, a motion for summary
adjudication may be granted “only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
 
As characterized by the reply,
Issue No. 1 seeks to circumvent the limitation on proper issues for adjudication
on a motion for summary adjudication by seeking adjudication of the question of
whether or not the SB Entities are valid assignees of Laguna’s rights and
obligations under the PSA. This is not a proper issue for motion for adjudication.
 
Moreover, cloaking the issues
as an issue of duty fails where – as the opposition notes – the issue does not properly
frame the scope of the duty. That is, the duty to defend or indemnity does not
operate in a vacuum and arises in response to certain events, typically circumstances
that are expressly provided for by the terms of a parties’ indemnity agreement.
The issue here is poorly worded and appears to seek adjudication of an
open-ended, undefined duty – without any reference to the circumstances that
would give rise to such duties. 

            Thus, the motion for summary
adjudication of this issue is procedurally improper. 
 
Issue Nos. 2-3:
 
            The
motion for summary adjudication also seeks adjudication of the following
issues:
 
Issue
No. 2: There is no triable issue of material fact that
Manhattan has a duty to indemnify and defend the SB Entities from the
underlying action filed by tenants at the Manhattan Building (“Laguerre
Action”), pursuant to, and in the manner set forth in, Section 6.1(c) of the
PSA and/or Section 1.3 of the AOL.
 
Issue
No. 3: There is no triable issue of material fact that
Manhattan’s duty to indemnify and defend the SB Entities, in accordance with
Section 6.1(c) of the PSA and/or Section 1.3 of the AOL, includes the
liabilities, claims, demands or damages made or incurred by Greystar or FPI
against the SB Entities for the Laguerre Action.
 
            The Court
cannot grant summary adjudication of Issue Nos. 2 and 3 because both Issues
seek adjudication of a premature issue – the duty to indemnify. 
 
As acknowledged
in Reply, these two issues seek resolution of both a duty to defendant and indemnify
related to the Laguerre Action. (Reply 7:8-23.) Thus, to prevail on these issues as defined by the
notice and separate statement, SB Entities must show facts that it is entitled
to judgment on both the duty to defend and the duty to indemnify. 
 
However, he
Opposition argues: “In the current posture, the Court is not in a position to
determine the scope of Manhattan’s alleged duty to indemnify SB Entities – a
matter included in all four of SB Entities stated issues – and thus the Court
could not conclusively decide the issues as stated.” (Opp. 8:18-20.) This
argument is well taken. 
 
The duty to defend is
distinct from the duty to indemnify and, depending on the contractual language,
“a duty to defend may exist even if no duty to indemnify is ultimately
found.” (Aluma Systems Concrete Construction of California v. Nibbi Bros.
Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 620, 627.) Importantly, however, “the duty to
indemnify does not arise until liability is proven.” (Aluma Systems Concrete
Construction of California v. Nibbi Bros. Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 620,
627.) 
 
In Reply, SB Entities
acknowledges that it cannot (and does not) seek “a full resolution of
Manhattan’s duties to indemnify the SB Entities as to Plaintiffs’ claims, given
the Laguerre Action is not yet resolved.” (Reply 13:8-9.) Instead, SB argues that Issue No. 2 “merely seeks to
resolve whether the Laguerre Action is included in the scope of Manhattan’s
duty to indemnify and defend the SB Entities to the extent provided in the
subject contract provisions.” (Reply 13:9-12.) 
 
SB Entities’ attempts to
characterize the scope of the issues differently than the plain language of the
issues as set forth in the Separate Statement is unpersuasive. Here, the duty
to indemnify as set forth in the Separate Statement and Notice arises from
liability related to and arising from the Laguerre Action. SB Entities
has not shown that liability has been proven so as to trigger any indemnity
obligation with respect to the Laguerre Action. Thus, the motion for
summary adjudication of Issues Nos. 2-3 must be denied because the court cannot
grant adjudication to each issue, fully. 
 
Issue No. 4:
 
            The motion for summary adjudication
seeks adjudication of the following issue:
 
Issue
No. 4: There is no
triable issue of material fact that Manhattan has a duty to indemnify, and thus
reimburse the SB Entities for all of the attorneys’ fees and expenses that they
have incurred in defending against the Laguerre Action.
 
Manhattan Lofts argues that
this issue for adjudication fails for the same
reasons as the other issues. However, the issue for adjudication here is
different in that it seeks only a duty to indemnify limited to the cost arising
from Manhattan Lofts’ alleged failure to defend SB Entities and not an
ultimate finding of liability in the Laguerre Action. 
 
As the court in Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541 explained, the statute in
Civil Code section 2778, subdivision (4) “places in every indemnity
contract, unless the agreement provides otherwise, a duty to assume the
indemnitee's defense, if tendered, against all claims ‘embraced by the indemnity.’ The
indemnitor's failure to assume the duty to defend the indemnitee upon request
(§ 2778, subd. (4)) may give rise to damages in the form of reimbursement of
defense costs
the indemnitee was thereby forced to incur. But this duty is nonetheless
distinct and separate from the contractual obligation to pay an indemnitee's
defense costs,
after the fact, as part of any indemnity owed under the agreement.
( [§ 2778], subd. 3.)” (Id. at pp. 557–558
[italics added].) 
 
Thus, this issue does not suffer from the same fatalities
as Issues Nos. 2-3. 
 
In support of the motion for summary adjudication of this issue, SB
Entities rely on the terms of the PSA between Manhattan Lofts and Laguna Point
Acquisitions, LLC (Laguna) and the Assignment of Leases (AOL) between Manhattan
Lofts and SB Entities.
 
On November 2, 2021, Laguna Point Acquisitions, LLC
(Laguna), as buyer, and Manhattan Lofts, as seller, entered into a written
Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions (PSA) for the sale of the
Manhattan Building. (PSS 1.) Before the close of escrow on the
Manhattan Building, Laguna executed an Assignment and Assumption of Purchase
and Sale Agreement assigning all of its rights, obligations, and interest in
the PSA to each of the SB Entities. (PSS 4.) On March 28, 2022, prior to the
close of escrow, Manhattan Lofts executed a Grant Deed transferring ownership
of the Manhattan Building to the SB Entities. (PSS 4 [Ex. 2 [Grant Deed].) On
April 6, 2022, escrow on the sale of the Manhattan Building closed and the SB
Entities acquired title to the Manhattan Building. (PSS 16.)
 
            Relevant to this motion, Manhattan Lofts, in the PSA, expressly agreed
that: 
            
“Seller shall indemnify and
defend Buyer against and hold Buyer harmless from any and all loss, damage,
liability or expense, including court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees,
which Buyer may reasonably incur or sustain either prior to or following the
Closing Date by reason of or in connection with (i) any breach of Seller’s
representations and/or warranties contained herein and (ii) any and all liabilities, claims, demands or damages made or
incurred by third parties, whether direct, contingent or consequential, in any
way related to or arising from the ownership, use, operation or occupancy of
the Property prior to the Closing Date, which obligation shall survive the
Closing as set forth above.” (PSS 2-3, 5.) 
SB Entities argue the duty to
defend and indemnify was triggered by both Section 6.1(c)(i) and Section(c)(ii)
of the PSA.
 
First, Section 6.1(c)(i) required
Manhattan Lofts to disclose any written threats of litigation relating to the
Manhattan Building pursuant to Section 6.1(a)(iii) of the PSA. In support of
the motion, SB Entities contend that, on September 2, 2021, tenants of the
Manhattan Building had sent written correspondence to Manhattan Loft threatening
to file a lawsuit regarding alleged habitability claims at the Manhattan
Building. (PSS 13.) Ultimately, this threat was realized on April 8, 2022, when
these same tenants initiated the Laguerre Action, which asserts claims
related to alleged habitability issues at the Manhattan Building; soon
thereafter, they filed suit against the SB Entities, as well. (PSS 12, 16-17,
19, 23, 25).
 
With respect to this argument, the
underlying material evidence is inadmissible. (See Court’s Ruling on Evid.) As
such, there is no admissible evidence showing that Manhattan Loft had any
knowledge of the potential litigation prior to Closing of the PSA. 
 
However, Section 6.1(c)(ii) also provides
a duty to defend and indemnify for all
liabilities, claims, demands or damages made or incurred by third parties,
whether direct, contingent or consequential, in any way related to or arising
from the ownership, use, operation or occupancy of the Property prior to the
Closing Date (April 6, 2022). 
 
In response to this provision, SB entities submit evidence that Laguerre
Action is an action by third parties
related to the ownership of the Property and that the plaintiffs’ claims in the
Laguerre Action include
allegations that Manhattan Loft breached their lease agreements and committed
habitability violations, among other claims allegedly related to the ownership,
use, operation, or occupancy of the Manhattan Building prior to April 6, 2022.
(PSS 17-18.)
 
In addition to the rights and
obligations arising under the PSA, Manhattan Loft assigned to SB Entities the
underlying leases in connection to the PSA. This Assignment of the Leases
agreement also contained an indemnification provision. This provision provided:
 
“Assignor shall
indemnify, protect, defend and hold Assignee harmless from all losses, damages,
claims, liabilities, demands, costs, offset rights and expenses, including,
without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of any Leases prior
to the Effective Date [April 6, 2022]. Assignee shall indemnify, protect,
defend and hold Assignor harmless from all losses, demands, damages, claims,
liabilities, demands, costs, expenses and offset rights, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of any failure of Assignee
to so keep, perform and discharge all of the obligations of the lessor under
the Leases that accrue from and after the Effective Date.” (PSS 8, 11.) 
 
For the same reasons as Section
6.1(c)(ii) of the PSA, SB Entities submit evidence that that the Plaintiffs in
the Laguerre Action alleged that Manhattan Loft failed to keep, perform
and discharge its obligations under their leases at the Manhattan Building
prior to April 6, 2022. (PSS 24.) 
 
The foregoing evidence is
sufficient to shift SB entities’ burden on the issue of a duty to defend under
the PSA and AOL. 
 
In opposition, Manhattan Lofts
argues that SB Entities are not a party to the PSA and, thus, SB Entities
cannot rely on the language in the PSA for indemnification. Moreover, Manhattan
Loft argues that SB Entities have failed to carry their burden of demonstrating
a proper assignment of the PSA. Specifically, under Paragraph 9.5 of the PSA,
Laguna could only assign its rights and interests under the PSA to a “Buyer’s
Affiliate,” defined as “entity controlled by or under common control with
[Laguna] or the principals of [Laguna].” (DAF 5.) Further, this assignment
required Laguna to “provide written notice of any such assignment not less than
five (5) business days prior to the Closing Date” identified in the PSA. (DAF
5.) The opposition notes that the moving papers do not provide any argument or
evidence as to either requirement. 
 
However, as the reply notes,
Manhattan Loft does not argue that SB Entities are not a Buyer’s Affiliate or
that Manhattan Loft did not receive the required notice. Given the evidence was
sufficient to shift the initial burden to make a prima facie showing, it was
Manhattan Loft’s burden to submit evidence raising triable issue of material
fact as to these issues. It failed to do so.  
 
Separately, Manhattan Loft fails to
undermine the application of the indemnification provision in the AOL. While
Manhattan Loft addresses the language in the AOL, it argues that the provision
only requires defense and indemnity for claims arising from any of Manhattan’s
failures to meet its obligations under the leases on the dates prior to the
assignment. (PSS 11.) Manhattan Loft notes that Plaintiff’s claims are more
expansive in so far as the evidence shows that Plaintiffs in the Laguerre
Action have brought claims alleging that conditions at the Manhattan Building
were substandard and in an uninhabitable state for dates after April 6, 2022
and continuing to the present. (DAF 7.)
 
This argument is legally unpersuasive.
As is well established, whether or not the duty to indemnify is ultimately
determined to exist is irrelevant to the question of the broader duty to
defend, which requires only the potential of indemnity. (See Saylin
v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 256, 263.)[1]
Thus, the fact that the claim may not ultimately be subject to indemnity does
not inform necessarily on the duty to defend potential claims. 
 
Finally, the opposition also notes
that Manhattan Loft offered to provide a defense to SB Entities and indemnify
SB Entities for damages that arose before the date of the assignment and
subject to Manhattan’s insurer’s control of a joint defense. (PSS 40-41; DSS
40-41.) SB Entities declined the offer, arguing that SB Entities’ maintenance
of a separate lawsuit against Manhattan Lofts meant that no joint defense
against Plaintiffs’ claims was possible due to conflicts of interest. (PSS
40-41; DSS 40-41.) Manhattan Loft argues its reservation was in compliance with
the assignment of leases and the theories underlying Plaintiff’s claims, but SB
Entities declined the offer. Thus, under these circumstances, SB Entities
cannot claim a right to costs arising from SB Entities defense of itself. 
 
“[A]n indemnitee ordinarily may not
refuse to join in or cooperate with the indemnitor's proffered defense and
still recover his separate and redundant attorneys' fees and costs.” (Buchalter
v. Levin (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 367, 371.) Whether the alleged indemnitor is
offered an opportunity to control the defense of the indemnitee is a factor in
the scope of the indemnitor’s ultimate indemnity obligation. (Peter Culley
& Associates v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1493.)
 
            Under Civil
Code section 2778, subdivision (3), “An indemnity against claims, or demands,
or liability, expressly, or in other equivalent terms, embraces the costs of
defense against such claims, demands, or liability incurred in good faith,
and in the exercise of a reasonable discretion.” (Italics added.) 
 
As argued by SB Entities, the
indemnitee may conduct his own defense if he chooses. (Buchalter v. Levin
(1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 367, 371; Civ. Code, § 2778, subd. (4).) However, the
indemnitee may not refuse the indemnitor's good faith offer of a complete
defense and later collect reimbursement from the indemnitor for the defense
costs the indemnitee has voluntarily incurred. (Buchalter v. Levin, supra,
at pp. 374–375; Goodman v. Severin (1969) 274 Cal.App.2d 885, 897; see
also Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 555.)
Thus, “absent some contractual privilege so to do or some showing of sufficient
justification, an indemnitee ordinarily may not refuse to join or cooperate
with the indemnitor's proffered defense and still recover his separate counsel
fees. [Citation.]” (Goodman v. Severin, supra, 274 Cal.App.2d at p.
897.)


Based on Manhattan Loft’s evidence,
there is a triable issue of material fact whether Manhattan Loft provided a good
faith proffer of a complete defense and whether SB Entities’ rejection of
Manhattan Loft’s defense and the cost incurred were in good faith and the
result of the exercise of reasonable discretion. Thus, the motion for summary
adjudication of this issue is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for
summary adjudication of Issues Nos. 1-4 are denied.  
 


