  Case Number:  21STCV23046    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
June 21, 2021, Plaintiff Patricia Carreon-Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Emanate Health, A California Nonprofit, Emanate
Health, A California Nonprofit dba Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital,
and Does 1-20 for premises liability. 
On
August 20, 2021, Defendant Emanate Health
Medical Center dba Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital (erroneously
sued and served as Emanate Health, A California Nonprofit; Emanate Health, a
California Nonprofit dba Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital)
(“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
On
May 20, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on August 15,
2024.  On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition.  On August 9, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.  The Court
continued the hearing to September 25, 2024. 
On
September 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a declaration and notice of lodging a USB
flash drive with video footage of the accident at issue. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 24, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Premises liability 
The
elements of a premises liability claim are a legal duty of care, breach of that
duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. 
(Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
June 24, 2019, Plaintiff fell and injured herself as a result of a liquid
substance left unattended on the first floor of Emanate Health Queen of the
Valley Hospital. 
Defendants
(1) negligently owned, maintained, managed and operated the premises, (2)
willfully or maliciously failed to guard or warn against a dangerous condition,
use, structure, or activity, and (3) owned public property on which a dangerous
condition existed and had constructive notice of the existence of the dangerous
condition in sufficient time prior to the injury to have corrected it. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
June 24, 2019, Plaintiff was in the hospital visiting her mother.  (UMF 5.)  Plaintiff complained of water by her mother's room.  (UMF 7.)  Plaintiff fell in a back hallway near the
entry to the operating rooms and not near where there had been a complaint made
to a janitor about water.  (UMF 6.)
 There are
no patient rooms at or near the hallway seen in the video of where Plaintiff is
seen falling outside the surgery suite entrance.  (UMF 8.)  Several employees and others passed through
the area where plaintiff fell.  (UMF 9.) 
Christine
Rendl, CPHRM, CSSGB, a Corporate Director of Risk Management at Emanate Health,
has read Plaintiff’s depositions taken on June 13,
2022, and September 27, 2023, and watched the video of Plaintiff's fall.  (UMF 2-4.) 
C.   Defendant has not carried its initial summary judgment
burden 
Citing
Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200 (Ortega), Defendant
argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because it lacked actual or
constructive notice of the allegedly wet floor on which Plaintiff fell.  In Ortega, the Supreme Court held that
when the plaintiff has no evidence of the source of the dangerous condition or
the length of time it existed, the plaintiff may rely solely on the owner’s
failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable period of time in order to
establish an inference that the defective condition existed long enough for a
reasonable person exercising ordinary care to have discovered and remedied
it.  But “if a store owner has taken care
in the discharge of its duty, by inspecting its premises in a reasonable
manner, then no breach will be found even if a plaintiff does suffer
injury.”  (Id. at p. 1211.) 
“
‘The requirement of actual or constructive knowledge is merely a means of
applying the general rule . . . that the proprietor may be liable if he knew or
by the exercise of reasonable care could have discovered the dangerous
condition . . . .’ ” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1203,
quoting Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 447.) 
Defendant
has presented the declaration of Christine Rendl (“Rendl”), who read
Plaintiff’s depositions taken on June 13, 2022, and September 27, 2023 and
watched the video of Plaintiff's fall. 
In her declaration, Rendl states that (1) “[s]everal employees and
others passed through the area where plaintiff fell and did not see and/or
complain of any liquid” and (2) “[t]he hospital was not aware of any unsafe or
dangerous conditions, including liquids, in the area where plaintiff fell prior
to plaintiff’s fall.”  (Rendl dec. ¶¶
4-5.)  Rendl asserts that she has personal
knowledge of these facts but she does not explain whether she or the hospital
communicated with all of the hospital’s employees to obtain this information.  Moreover, Rendl does not state that the employees
who passed through the area before Plaintiff fell were tasked with inspecting
the premises. 
In
addition, Plaintiff has submitted a declaration stating that, before she fell, two
hospital employees “walked around the spot/area where [Plaintiff]
slipped.”  (Carreon-Hernandez dec. ¶ 12.)  The declaration raises an inference that these employees noticed liquid on the floor and walked around the area to avoid it. 
Even
assuming that Defendant carried its initial summary judgment burden on the
issue of actual notice, Defendant has presented no evidence showing that it
inspected its premises in a reasonable manner. 
(See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1211; see id.
at p. 1210 [“We conclude that a plaintiff may prove a dangerous condition
existed for an unreasonable time with circumstantial evidence, and that . . . ‘evidence
that an inspection had not been made within a particular period of time prior
to an accident may warrant an inference that the defective condition existed
long enough so that a person exercising reasonable care would have discovered
it’ ”].)  Therefore, Defendant has not
carried its initial burden on summary judgment of showing that it lacked
constructive notice of the allegedly dangerous condition.  
Defendant
insists that Plaintiff has the burden of proving actual and constructive
notice.  While Plaintiff indeed has the
ultimate burden of proof, the Supreme Court’s decision in Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th 826 describes the parties’ respective burdens on a motion for summary judgment. 
The
Court denies Defendant’s motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Emanate Health Medical Center dba Emanate Health Queen
of the Valley Hospital’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.