  Case Number:  20STCV27855    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
8, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  February 3, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         JCS
El Segundo Inc. v. El Segundo Plaza Associate, L.P.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV27855
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants El Segundo Plaza Associates, L.P. and El
Segundo Plaza I, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs JCS El Segundo, Inc., Jay Shin,
and Clara Shin
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
In 1998, El Segundo Plaza
Associates, L.P (ESPA)[1]
leased the property located at 5107 W. El Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, California
90266 (the “Premises”) to Ping D. Foo (“Foo”). In 2010, Foo assigned his
interest in the lease to JCS El Segundo, Inc. (JSC), Jay Shin, and Clara Shin
(collectively “Plaintiffs”), with ESPA’s written consent.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs operated a Burger King
franchise on the Premises.  
 
On July 23, 2020, Plaintiffs filed
this action against Defendants ESPA and El Segundo Plaza I, Inc.[2]
(collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiffs allege causes of action for (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Accounting; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; (4) Misrepresentation; (5) Damages under Penal Code Section
496(c); and (6) Declaratory Relief. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants breached the
lease agreement by collecting property tax and common area expense payments in
excess of what Plaintiffs actually owed under the lease.
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants
filed this Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication.
 
The motion was heard on September
6, 2024.  In advance of the hearing, the
court issued a tentative ruling finding the arguments inadequately developed as
to the following issues: (1) whether the terms of the QD are ambiguous; (2) whether
the court can consider parol evidence to interpret the QD; and (3) whether
Plaintiffs purported mistake (of fact or law) presents a sufficient defense to
raise triable issues of material fact.  After
oral argument, the court ordered additional briefing.
 
The issues have been briefed. The
court rules as follows. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            When reviewing a motion for
summary judgment or summary
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿
(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)
 A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿
A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause
of action.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess
needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant
to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿
The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            “Once
the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by
showing one or more triable issues of material fact exist as to the challenged
element. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
 
            The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear
in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants
conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or
demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Defendants
assert twenty objections to the declarations of Plaintiffs Jay Shin and Clara
Shin in their response to Plaintiffs’ separate statement.  Defendants’ objections are not in the proper
format.  “[California Rules of Court,] [r]ule 3.1354(b) dictates the
format in which evidentiary objections must be submitted: ‘All written
objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the other papers
in support of or in opposition to the motion. Objections on specific evidence
may be referenced by the objection number in the right column of a separate
statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the objections must not be
restated or reargued in the separate statement.’”  (Hodjat v. State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.)  It is not an
abuse of discretion for the trial court to decline to rule on improperly
formatted objections or to deny an opportunity to reformat the
objections.  (Id.)   
 
Accordingly, the court declines to
rule on Defendants’ objections. 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            The issue
to be decided is whether Plaintiffs assigned their right to recover the alleged
overpayment of taxes and common area expenses in this action to Defendants when
they executed a quitclaim deed.  
 
A.     Factual Background 
 
In 1998, ESPA leased the property
located at 5107 W. El Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, California 90266 (the
“Premises”) to Ping D. Foo (“Foo”). (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts
(UMF) 1.) In 2010, Foo assigned his interest in the lease to Plaintiffs, with
ESPA’s written consent. (UMF 2.) Plaintiffs operated a Burger King franchise on
the Premises.  
 
On October 19, 2017, JSC and ESPA
entered into a written First Lease Extension Agreement, modifying the 1998
Lease (the “Lease”). (UMF 3.) Paragraph 16.02 of the Lease provides that “Upon
expiration of the Lease term [], Tenant agrees to execute, acknowledge and
deliver to Landlord a proper instrument in recordable form, releasing and
quitclaiming to Landlord all right, title, and interest of Tenant in and to the
Premises and all improvements constructed thereon”. (Plaintiffs’ Additional
Material Facts (PAMF) 38.) 
 
On December 3, 2023, Defendants’
principal Jerry Jamgotchian requested that Plaintiffs execute a Quitclaim and
Lease Termination Agreement (the “Termination Agreement”). (PAMF 39.)
Plaintiffs refused, as the Termination Agreement exceeded the scope called for
under Paragraph 16.02 and contained mutual releases that would terminate the claims
alleged in the instant action. (PAMF 40-41.)  
 
Thereafter, Defendants prepared a
Quitclaim Deed (“QD”).  Defendants delivered
the QD to Plaintiffs. Defendants left the QD at the Premises with one of
Plaintiffs’ employees.  Defendants did
not discuss the QD with Plaintiffs. (PAMF 42-43.) On December 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs executed the QD with the intention of complying with Paragraph
16.02. (UMF 35, PAMF 45.)  
 
The QD states:  
 
On December 31, 2023 THE GRANTOR(S),
 
JAY SHIN, CLARA SHIN AND JCS EL SEGUNDO
INC.
 
for all consideration of: One Dollar
($1.00) and/or other good and valuable consideration conveys, releases and
quitclaims to the GRANTEE(S):
 
EL SEGUNDO PLAZA ASSOCIATES L.P., for
the property located at: 5107 W. El Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, Los Angeles
County, California lease.
 
the following described real estate,
situated in Hawthorne, in the county of Los Angeles, State of California
 
Legal Description:  Attached as Ex. “A”
 
More commonly described as 5107 W. El
Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, California 90250.
 
Grantor does hereby convey, release and
quitclaim all of the Grantor’s rights, claims, title and interest in and to the
above described property and premises to the Grantee(s), and to the Grantee(s)
heirs and assigns forever, so that neither Grantor(s) nor Grantor’s heirs,
legal representatives or assigns shall have, claim or demand any right or title
to the property, premises, improvements, rights, claims or appurtenances, if
any part thereof.
 
Grantor herein confirms that existing
Burger King lease dated July 31, 1998 will end on December 31, 2023 and Grantor
agrees to vacate the premises and assign all rights, claims, and interests
under the lease to Grantee.
 
(Jamgotchian Decl., Exh. D.) Plaintiffs executed the QD as
the “Grantors”, and ESPA executed the QD as the “Grantee”.  (Id.; UMF 26-30.) 
 
Plaintiffs maintain that at the
time they executed and delivered the QD to Defendants, Plaintiffs intended to
surrender the premises at the expiration of the lease term and any future
rights they had to rent or occupy the premises. (PAMF 46.) They did not intend
to assign to Defendants (and thereby relinquish) their right to pursue their legal
claims in the instant action.  Plaintiffs
did not they believe the QD assigned such claims to ESPA. (PAMF 47.) 
 
The Lease terminated on December
31, 2023, and Plaintiffs timely vacated the Premises. (UMF 36.)  
 
            B.   Analysis    
 
Defendants argue the language of
the QD unambiguously expresses Plaintiffs’ intent to assign the claims asserted
in this action to Defendants.  Plaintiffs
argue they executed the QD to assign Plaintiffs’ interest in the title to the
Premises only, not their rights and interests in this lawsuit.  For the reasons discussed herein, the court concludes
there is a triable issue regarding the scope and meaning of the QD.  
 
Rules governing the
interpretation of contracts
 
“The rules
governing the role of the court in interpreting a written instrument are well
established. The interpretation of a contract is a judicial function.
[Citation.] In engaging in this function, the trial court ‘give[s] effect to
the mutual intention of the parties as it existed’ at the time the contract was
executed. [Citation.] Ordinarily, the objective intent of the contracting
parties is a legal question determined solely by reference to the contract's
terms. [Citation.]” (Wolf v. Walt Disney Pictures & Television
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1125-1126 (Wolf).) 
 
“The court
generally may not consider extrinsic evidence of any prior agreement or
contemporaneous oral agreement to vary or contradict the clear and unambiguous
terms of a written, integrated contract. [Citations.] Extrinsic evidence is
admissible, however, to interpret an agreement when a material term is
ambiguous. [Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 1126; see also Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. G.W. Thomas Drayage
& Rigging (1968)
69 Cal.2d 33, 39-40 [if extrinsic evidence reveals that apparently clear
language in the contract is, in fact, “susceptible to more than one reasonable
interpretation,” then extrinsic evidence may be used to determine the
contracting parties’ objective intent].)
 
“The interpretation of a contract
involves ‘a two-step process: First the court provisionally receives (without
actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the parties’ intentions to
determine “ambiguity,” i.e., whether the language is “reasonably susceptible”
to the interpretation urged by a party. If in light of the extrinsic evidence
the court decides the language is “reasonably susceptible” to the
interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the
second step – interpreting the contract. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Wolf v.
Superior Court (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1351 (Wolf II) [citing
and quoting Winet v. Price (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165]; see also Wolf,
supra,162 Cal.App.4th at p. 1126.)
 
“When there is no material conflict in the extrinsic
evidence, the trial court interprets the contract as a matter of law.
[Citations.] This is true even when conflicting inferences may be drawn from
the undisputed extrinsic evidence [citations] or that extrinsic evidence
renders the contract terms susceptible to more than one reasonable
interpretation. [Citations.] If, however, there is a conflict in the extrinsic
evidence, the factual conflict is to be resolved by the jury. [Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1126-1127; see id. at p. 1134 [“that extrinsic evidence may reveal an ambiguity
subjecting a contract to more than one reasonable interpretation does not mean
resolution of that ambiguity is necessarily a jury question. Absent a conflict
in the evidence, the interpretation of the contract remains a matter of law”].)
 
Ambiguity
“A quitclaim
deed transfers whatever present right or interest the grantor has in the
property. [Citation.]” (City of Manhattan Beach v. Superior Ct. (1996)
13 Cal.4th 232, 239, citing Westlake v. Silva (1942) 49 Cal.App.2d 476,
478; see also Black's Law Dict. (4th ed. 1968) p. 1417, col. 1 [quitclaim
“intended to pass any title, interest, or claim which the grantor may have in
the premises”].)  “[I]t has been often
decided by this court that a quitclaim deed conveys the absolute fee-simple
title if the party executing it had such title [citations]; and therefore such
deed does not imply any precedent interest or easement in the releasee, or any
admission of the releasor to that effect.” 
(Spaulding v. Bradley (1889) 79 Cal. 449, 456.)  “In this State, from the earliest times,
quitclaim deeds have been in every-day use for the purpose of transferring
title to land, and have been considered as effectual for that purpose as deeds
of bargain and sale.”  (Graff v.
Middleton (1872) 43 Cal. 341, 344.)  
 
As the
foregoing authority indicates, a quitclaim deed typically transfers the
grantor’s title, interest, or claim in the property itself.  Yet, the QD in this matter, as Defendants
argue, purports to achieve more than that. 
The relevant language in the QD provides: 
 
Grantor herein confirms that existing
Burger King lease dated July 31, 1998 will end on December 31, 2023 and Grantor
agrees to vacate the premises and assign all rights, claims, and interests under
the lease to Grantee.
 
(Jamgotchian Decl., Exh. D.)  
 
Defendants’ decision
to place the “all claims” language at the tail end of a QUITCLAIM DEED strengthens
Plaintiffs’ argument the language is ambiguous. 
The assignment of a lawsuit involving tax issues is generally not part
of a QUITCLAIM DEED.  QUITCLAIM DEEDS generally
involve property rights, not assignments of lawsuits.  True, the “all claims” language included in
the QUITCLAIM DEED is susceptible to Defendants’ interpretation.  But the placement of the language in a QD provides
ballast to Plaintiffs’ interpretation.   
 
The two-step interpretation
process described above similarly supports Plaintiffs’ argument.  Defendants point to the purported lack of
ambiguity by raising the undisputed point that Plaintiffs had around four days
to review and sign the two-page QD.  (See
Further Reply, p. 12:7-8.)  This advances
Defendants contention Plaintiffs did not make a mistake.  But neither point resolves the ambiguity of
the language placed in a QUITCLAIM DEED. 

 
Assuming,
arguendo, Defendants meet their initial burden, Plaintiffs submit evidence to show
there is a triable issue of fact.  The
lease between the parties required Plaintiffs as tenants  “to execute, acknowledge and deliver to
Landlord a proper instrument in recordable form, releasing and quitclaiming to
Landlord all right, title, and interest of Tenant in and to the Premises and
all improvements constructed thereon” at the expiration of the lease term.  (Jamgotchian Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶
16.02.)  On December 3, 2023, Defendants’
principal, Jerry Jamgotchian requested that Plaintiffs execute a Quitclaim and
Lease Termination Agreement.  (PAMF 39.)  Plaintiffs refused to execute the Termination
Agreement because it exceeded the scope of paragraph 16.02 of the Lease.  (PAMF 40.)  The Termination Agreement contained mutual
releases, which would have released in the lawsuit at issue here.  (PAMF 41; see Shin Decls., Exs. A.)  Having rejected the release in the Termination
Agreement, why would Plaintiffs effectively agree to release the very same
lawsuit by assigning claims in the QD?  Defendants
do not point to any incentives given to Plaintiffs that would have motivated Plaintiffs
to reconsider and surrender the lawsuit by assigning away its claims.  A reasonable juror could find the lack of
explanation and lack of definition of the terms in the QD along with Plaintiffs
prior rejection of the Termination Agreement indicative of Plaintiffs’ belief the
QD related solely to the release of the property, not the lawsuit.    
 
Further,
Plaintiffs aver to the following: 
 
“[I]n late December, 2023, Defendants delivered a Quitclaim Deed
(the “QD") to [us] by giving it to one of JCS El Segundo Inc.’s employees
at the Property. At no time, before or after its delivery, did anyone
affiliated with Defendants discuss it or its terms with [us]. .... The QD was prepared
by Defendants. [We] had no part in its creation. [We] signed the QD so as to comply
with section 16.02 of our Lease.”
 
“At the time [upon expiration of the Lease on December 31, 2023, to
surrender the building I occupied on the Property, and all rights I may have
had to rent r occupy the Property in the future, to Defendants. We were moving
out and the QD was issued to acknowledge that, after vacating the unit, I would
have not rights to the Property or the structure built thereon.  The QD was a deed, and my understanding of
deeds was that they are used to convey interests in real property.” 
 
“At no time did [we] intend to assign the claims [we] have made in
the instant lawsuit to Defendants, and at no time believe the QD would operate
to assign such claims. [We] have never discussed or agreed with Defendants to
assign the claims made in this action to them or anyone else.”
 
(Shin Decls., ¶¶ 6-8.)
 
Taken together,
Plaintiffs’ evidence tends to show the QD was meant to effectuate the release
of their “right, title, and interest … in and to the Premises and all
improvements constructed thereon” as provided under paragraph 16.02 of the
Lease.  Nothing more.  
 
Defendants take
issue with Plaintiffs’ reliance on parol evidence.  They argue extrinsic evidence may not be
considered because there is no ambiguity on the face of the QD.  The court disagrees.  First, as discussed above, there is an
ambiguity on the face of the QD.  Second,
extrinsic evidence is not barred in this matter.  “The court generally may not consider extrinsic evidence of any prior
agreement or contemporaneous oral agreement to vary or contradict the clear and
unambiguous terms of a written, integrated contract. [Citations.] Extrinsic
evidence is admissible, however, to interpret an agreement when a material term
is ambiguous. [Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 1126.)  Here, there is no integration clause and the extrinsic evidence is admissible to
interpret the QD because the use of the terms “all claims” and “under the
lease” in the context of a quitclaim deed are ambiguous.  There is a triable issue.  Summary judgment cannot be granted as a
matter of law. 
 
V.        CONCLUSION 
 
            The Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, is DENIED.
 
 
Dated:   November 8,
2024                             
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 


