 Case Number:  22STCV20036    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30
Calendar No.
Zakariyae vs. Zakaryaie, et. al., Case No. 22STCV20036
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Motion for Substitution of Successor in
Interest
 
Melanie Yadegar (Successor) moves to be substituted into the
present action as cross-complainant in place of Farideh Zakaryaie (Decedent). Cross-defendant
Manoocher Zakariyae (Cross-defendant) opposes her substitution. 
 
“A pending
action or proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of
action survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.) “On motion after the death of a
person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Id.,
§ 377.31.) 
The person
who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action
or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest shall execute and file an
affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this
state stating: (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s
death; (3) an affirmation that “[n]o proceeding is now pending in California
for administration of the decedent’s estate”; (4) if the decedent’s estate was
administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent’s  cause of action to the
successor in interest; (5) an affirmation that either the declarant is the
successor in interest or authorized to act on behalf of the successor in
interest; (6) an affirmation that “[n]o other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the  decedent in the pending action or proceeding”;
and (7) an affirmation of the declaration’s truth under penalty of perjury. (Id.,
§ 377.32.) The party must also submit a certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate.
 
Substitution is mandatory if the statutory requirements are
met. (Id., § 377.31.) Here, Successor has filed a declaration satisfying
the requirements of section 377.32. (Yadegar Decl. ¶ 5.) Successor has also
properly provided a copy of the death certificate. (Id., Ex. A.) Thus,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31, the Court finds that
Successor may continue Decedent’s action.
 
Cross-defendant’s argument concerning estoppel is without
merit. The procedure for substituting a successor in interest differs depending
on whether the claim in question is by or against the decedent. (Compare id.,
§ 377.30 with § 377.40.) To substitute Successor, Cross-defendant was required
to open a probate estate and refused to do so. Successor has never disputed
that she is Decedent’s successor in interest; she merely opposed substitution
previously on procedural grounds.
 
 
 
 