 Case Number:  23STCV23634    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 Calendar No. Valencia vs. Guy  F. Atkinson Construction, LLC, et. al., Case No. 23STCV23634   Tentative Ruling  re:  Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File  a Cross-Complaint   Guy F. Atkinson Construction, LLC (Defendant)  moves for an order from the Court granting Defendant leave to file a  cross-complaint in the present action. The motion is unopposed by Carlos  Valencia (Plaintiff). The motion is granted.   Defendant is ordered to file and serve the Cross-Complaint within ten  (10) days of today’s date.   Generally, a party must file a  cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or  cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to  the complaint or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a).) The  court may grant leave to file a cross-complaint if the failure to plead a cause  of action was the result of oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other  cause. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Where the proposed cross-complaint arises  out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to  file the cross-complaint as long as defendant is acting in good faith. (Id.)  Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties  in the same lawsuit and discretion will usually be exercised liberally to  permit amendment of the pleadings. (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6  Cal.3d 920, 929.)  A party may obtain leave of court  to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of a lawsuit, and leave  may be granted in the interest of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50;  see also Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.)    Defendant moves for leave to file a compulsory  cross-complaint in the present action. “[I]f a party against whom a complaint  has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related  cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he  has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action  assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) A related cause of action “arises out of the  same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the  cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Id., §  426.10, subd. (c).) A court may grant leave to file a cross-complaint alleging  related causes of action the defendant failed to initially plead due to  oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other good cause, if it finds  that the defendant acted in good faith. (Id. § 426.50.) Here, Defendant’s counterclaim arises out of a  release agreement signed by Plaintiff purporting to release Defendant from the  presently brought causes of action. (Labriola Decl. ¶¶ 2–3, Ex. 2.) With  Plaintiff having refused to dismiss the present suit despite the release  agreement, Defendant seeks to bring a counterclaim for breach of the same. (Id.  ¶ 12, Ex. 7.) Defendant alerted Plaintiff to this potential counterclaim before  bringing the present motion. (Id. ¶ 10, Ex. 6.)  The Court finds that the release agreement,  and any potential breach thereof, arises out of the same series of transactions  or occurrences as Plaintiff’s causes of action because the agreement purports  to release Defendant from them. Thus, the present cross-complaint is  compulsory. Additionally, the Court finds that Defendant has acted in good  faith attempting to resolve this matter informally and notifying Plaintiff about  this potential counterclaim. (Id. ¶¶ 3, 5, 10.) Accordingly, the Court  grants Defendant leave to file a cross-complaint pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 426.50.  