 Case Number:  .24STCV24793    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Danner, et. al. vs. Silverado Beverly Place LLC,
et. al., Case
No. 24STCV24793
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Demurrer to Complaint; Motion to Strike
 
Silverado Beverly
Place LLC (Defendant) demurs to all causes
of action in Sarah E. Danner (Decedent), by and through her successors in
interest Cheryl Danner and Ingrid Danner’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) complaint.
Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for punitive damages,
attorney’s fees, and general damages. Defendant’s demurrer is sustained as to
the first cause of action with ten (10) days leave to amend.  The motion to strike is granted as to the
allegations and request for punitive damages and for attorney’s fees.
 
A demurrer is
sustained where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer tests the
legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Yalung v.
State (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 71, 80.) In reviewing a complaint’s legal
sufficiency, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. (Esparza
v. Kaweah Delta Dist. Hospital (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 547, 552.) It is well
settled that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart Tit. Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) 
When ruling
on a demurrer, a court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or matters
which may be judicially noticed. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic evidence or judge the
credibility of the allegations pleaded or the difficulty a plaintiff may have
in proving his allegations. (Ion Equipment
Corporation v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A demurrer is
properly sustained only when the complaint, liberally construed, fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 574, 578.)
The Court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The Court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).)
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false
or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.,
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank, supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of
facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the
plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be
deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings
were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152
Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) 
Defendant demurs to each cause of
action on the basis that Plaintiffs have failed to plead facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action for elder abuse, negligence, or wrongful death.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) Defendant also demurs to Plaintiffs’ third
cause of action for wrongful death as uncertain. (Id., § 430.10, subd.
(f).) Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for punitive damages,
general damages, and attorney’s fees. (Id., § 436, subd. (a).) The Court
will address each argument in turn.
 
Plaintiffs have not pled facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for elder abuse.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant is
liable for neglect of a dependent adult pursuant to Welfare and Institutions
Code section 15657. That section provides for greater damages if a plaintiff
proves by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for neglect of
a dependent adult and “has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice in the commission of this abuse.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.) A
dependent adult is “any person between the ages of 18 and 64 years who is
admitted as an inpatient to a 24-hour health facility, as defined in Sections
1250, 1250.2, and 1250.3 of the Health and Safety Code.” (Id., §
15610.23, subd. (b).) The parties do not dispute that Decedent qualified as a
dependent adult under this definition.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have
failed to plead facts constituting neglect. Under section 15657, neglect refers
to “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of an
elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable
person in a like position would exercise.” (Id., § 15610.57, subd.
(a)(1).) Examples of neglect include: “(1) Failure to assist in personal
hygiene, or in the provision of food, clothing, or shelter. (2) Failure to
provide medical care for physical and mental health needs. . . (3) Failure to
protect from health and safety hazards. (4) Failure to prevent malnutrition or
dehydration.” (Id., § 15610.57, subd. (b)(1)–(4).) In short, neglect
refers to “the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs
and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional
standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404.) Importantly,
the facts constituting neglect and establishing a causal link between the
neglect and injury must be pleaded with particularity. (Id. at p. 407.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that Decedent began
her residency with Defendant in June 2020. (Compl. ¶ 11.) On March 13, 2024,
Decedent developed various symptoms and was diagnosed with sepsis after being
transferred to a hospital. (Id. ¶ 12.) She died on April 28, 2024, due
to sepsis, intestinal perforation, stercoral ulcer, and dementia. (Id. ¶
14.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant and its employees neglected
Decedent by withholding goods or services, but without any specificity. (Id.
¶ 20.) These allegations do not constitute neglect as defined under section 15610.57,
subdivision (a)(1). Plaintiffs make no factual allegations that Defendant
failed to assist in personal hygiene or failed to provide medical care. Nor do
they make allegations concerning a failure to avoid health or safety hazards,
or that Defendant failed to prevent malnutrition or dehydration. Effectively,
Plaintiffs’ only allegation of neglect is that Decedent developed sepsis while
under Defendant’s care. While conduct resulting in such an occurrence could
constitute negligence, elder neglect actions are reserved for cases in which a
defendant has failed to attend to the basic needs of a dependent adult. No such
allegations are made here with any sort of particularity.
 
Similarly, Plaintiffs have also failed
to plead facts demonstrating any recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice on
the part of Defendant. Plaintiffs’ allegation that Decedent developed sepsis
while under Defendant’s care does not rise to that level, and Plaintiffs’
conclusory statement that it does is insufficient. (Id. ¶ 21.)
Additionally, Plaintiffs have not stated facts alleging any sort of
ratification on the part of Defendant’s officers or managing agents as required
under section 15657, subdivision (c). Plaintiffs’ conclusory allegation that Defendant’s
misconduct “was the direct result and product of the financial and control
policies and practices dictated by and forced upon [Defendant] by and through
their corporate officers and directors,” does not suffice where Plaintiffs do
not identify any such misconduct. (Compl. ¶ 8.) Nor does Plaintiffs’ mere
recitation of jury instructions. (Id. ¶ 17.) Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained as to the first cause of action. Plaintiffs are granted
leave to amend.
 
Plaintiffs have pled facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action for negligence.
Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs have
not pled their second cause of action for negligence with sufficient
particularity. The elements of negligence are duty, breach of duty, causation,
and damages. (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.) Here,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant owed Decedent statutory, regulatory, and
common law duties of care. (Compl. ¶ 26.) They further allege that Defendant
breached these duties by “denying or withholding goods or services necessary to
meet the basic needs of [Decedent].” (Id. ¶¶ 20, 27.) Plaintiffs allege
that as a proximate result of this breach, they suffered damages. (Id. ¶
28.) Such allegations, taken as true and subject to no heightened pleading
standard like Plaintiffs’ statutory claim, are sufficient to constitute a cause
of action for negligence. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action.
 
Plaintiffs have pled facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action for wrongful death.
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ third
cause of action on the basis that Plaintiffs have not pled sufficient facts. A
wrongful death action requires a showing of (1) a wrongful act or neglect of
another (2) causing (3) death. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60.) Here, Plaintiffs
have alleged negligent conduct on the part of Defendant and the death of
Decedent, satisfying elements one and three. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 33.) Plaintiffs
also allege that Decedent’s death was the proximate result Defendant’s
negligence. (Id. ¶ 33.) Taking all facts pleaded as true, Plaintiffs
have sufficiently pled a claim for wrongful death. Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’
prayer for punitive damages and all paragraphs referencing punitive damages in
the complaint. A plaintiff may recover punitive damages where it is proven by
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Malice is defined as conduct
intended to injure the plaintiff or despicable conduct by a defendant acting
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others. (Id.,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression means despicable conduct subjecting a person
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of their rights. (Id.,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(2).) And fraud refers to intentional misrepresentations or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant. (Id., § 3294,
subd. (c)(3).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs state that any acts or
omissions alleged in the complaint were done with malice, oppression, fraud,
and recklessness. (Compl. ¶ 21.) However, Plaintiffs allege no behavior in the
complaint other than potential negligence to which these modifiers may attach. Plaintiffs
offer no intentional conduct by Defendant or a willful and conscious disregard
for the safety of others that would constitute malice. Nor do Plaintiffs plead
any facts alleging despicable conduct or fraud. Thus, Defendant’s motion to
strike punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ complaint is granted. Plaintiffs are
given leave to amend. 
 
Additionally, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs fail to plead facts justifying an award of attorney’s fees. “[A]s a
general rule, attorney fees are not recoverable as costs unless they are
authorized by statute or agreement.” (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations
v. Speedee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 424, 429.) Here,
attorney’s fees would be authorized under Welfare and Institutions Code section
15657, subdivision (a). However, as discussed above, Defendant’s demurrer as to
that cause of action is sustained. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney’s fees is granted as well. Plaintiffs are given
leave to amend.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs are not entitled to general damages because they bring the current
action as successors in interest. “[I]n an action or proceeding by a decedent’s
personal representative or successor in interest on the decedent’s cause of
action, the damages recoverable may include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement if the action or proceeding was . . . filed on or after January
1, 2022, and before January 1, 2026. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34, subd. (b).)
The present case was filed on September 24, 2024, and thus falls within the statutory
window. Thus, Plaintiffs are entitled to seek general damages for pain and
suffering on behalf of Decedent. 