  Case Number:  20STCV20443    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CRAIG STEVEN
  ROBERTS, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
DOES 1
  THROUGH 250.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV20443
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 9, 2023



 
Specially Appearing Defendant Orica USA Inc.’s motion to
quash service of summons is granted. 
 
Specially Appearing Defendant
Orica USA Inc. (“Orica USA”) makes a special appearance solely for the purpose
of challenging jurisdiction and move for an order quashing service of the
summons and complaint upon it on the grounds this Court lacks personal jurisdiction
over it because Orica USA is a corporation formed under the laws of Delaware
with its principal place of business in Colorado.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §418.10(a)(1).)
 Orica USA argues this Court lacks
specific jurisdiction over it because Plaintiffs Craig Steven Roberts (“Craig”)
and Carla Roxanna Roberts (“Carla”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) have provided
no evidence that their claims against Orica USA arise from related activities
that took place within the State of California or that Orica USA purposefully availed
itself of the benefits of the State of California.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Evidentiary Objections
Orica
USA’s 9/28/23 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Scott P. Brust
(“Brust”) are sustained as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, and overruled as to
Nos. 7, 8, 9, and 10.
 
Background
On May 28, 2020, Plaintiffs
filed their original complaint.  On September
1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants Southwest Drilling, Inc., dba Southwest Explosives (“Southwest
Drilling”) [previously sued as Doe No. 1]; Alpha Dyno Nobel (“Alpha
Dyno”) [previously sued as Doe No. 2]; Austin Powder Company (“Austin
Powder”) [previously sued as Doe No. 3]; Cannon Fuse, Inc. (“Cannon
Fuse”) [previously sued as Doe No. 4]; Donovan Commercial Industries,
Inc. (“Donovan Commercial”) [previously sued as Doe No. 5]; Dyno Nobel,
Inc. (“Dyno Inc.”) [previously sued as Doe No. 6]; E.B. Stone & Son,
Inc. (“EB Stone”) [previously sued as Doe No. 7]; Goex Powder, Inc.
(“Goex”) [previously sued as Doe No. 8]; Hodgdon Powder Company, Inc.
(“Hodgdon”) [previously sued as Doe No. 9]; International Fireworks
Manufacturing Co. (“International Fireworks”) [previously sued as Doe No. 10];
New River Energetics, Inc. (“New River”) [previously sued as Doe No. 11];
Orica USA [previously sued as Doe No. 12]; Slurry Explosive Corporation
(“Slurry Explosive”) [previously sued as Doe No. 13]; W.M. Murphy, Inc.
[previously sued as Doe No. 14]; Walter Andersen Enterprises (“Walter
Andersen”) [previously sued as Doe No. 15]; and Aldon Corporation
(“Aldon”) [previously sued as Doe No. 16], alleging six causes of
action: (1) negligence; (2) strict liability- warning defect; (3) strict
liability- design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.  (See
FAC.)  
On May 31, 2023, Orica USA filed
the instant motion.  On September 21,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. 
On September 28, 2023, Orica USA filed its reply. 
 
Motion to Quash
“When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)  When a
defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff
has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that
is the facts requisite to an effective service.”  (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245
Cal.App.2d 866, 868; see also Elkman v. National States Insurance Co.
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-1313 [“Where a nonresident defendant
challenges jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the
burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts
exist between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].)
California’s long-arm statute
permits a court to exercise personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with
state or federal constitutional principles. 
(C.C.P. §410.10.)  “When a
defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.  Once facts showing
minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the
defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.”  (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434,
449, citations omitted.)  Plaintiffs must
meet their initial burden by a preponderance of competent and relevant
evidence, as shown in affidavits and documentary evidence.  (See Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH v.
Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232-1233.)
          “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific. A
nonresident defendant may be subject to the general jurisdiction of the
forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are ‘substantial . . .
continuous and systematic.’ In such a case, ‘it is not necessary that the
specific cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business
relationship to the forum.’ Such a defendant’s contacts with the forum are so
wide-ranging that they take the place of physical presence in the forum as a
basis for jurisdiction.”  (Vons Companies, Inc., 14 Cal.4th at pgs. 445-446, citations omitted.)
“If the nonresident defendant
does not have substantial and systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to
establish general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum, if
the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits,
and the ‘controversy is related to or ‘arises out of’ a defendant’s contacts
with the forum.’”  (Id. at pg. 446, citations omitted.) 
The purposeful availment test is only satisfied if the defendant
purposefully and voluntarily directs its activities toward California so that
the defendant should expect, because of the benefits it receives, to be subject
to jurisdiction here based on its contacts with California.  (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.) 
Purposeful availment occurs when a nonresident defendant purposefully
directs its activities at California residents, deliberately engages in
significant activities here, or creates “continuing obligations” between itself
and California residents.  (Id. at
pg. 1063.)
“The crucial inquiry concerns
the character of defendant’s activity in the forum, whether the cause of action
arises out of or has a substantial connection with that activity, and upon the
balancing of the convenience of the parties and the interests of the state in
assuming jurisdiction.”  (Vons Companies, Inc., 14 Cal.4th at pg. 448, citing Cornelison v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d
143, 147-148).  Jurisdiction is proper
when the defendant’s contacts proximately result from its actions that create a
“substantial connection” with the forum state. 
(Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235, 253.)
Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate by a preponderance of
evidence that Orica USA has sufficient contacts with California for this Court
to exercise general jurisdiction over it.  Plaintiffs’ opposition does not explicitly argue
the issue of general jurisdiction, and therefore concedes this Court lacks
general jurisdiction over Orica USA.  (See
Opposition, pg. 4.)[1]  However, Plaintiffs raise the argument that Orica
USA has been registered and qualified to do business with the California
Secretary of State since at least 2000, and its predecessor company was
qualified and registered even before that.  (Opposition, pg. 7.)  Plaintiffs’ argument is unavailing.  Business licenses and service-of-process
agents do not alone support general jurisdiction findings.  (Gray Line Tours v. Reynolds Electrical
& Engineering Co. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 190, 194; DVI, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1095.)  “[E]ngaging in commerce with residents of the
forum state is not in and of itself the kind of activity that approximates
physical presence within” California’s borders.  (Bancroft & Masters, Inc. v. Augusta
National, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 223 F.3d 1082, 1086; see also Fisher
Governor Co. v. Superior Court (1959) 53 Cal.2d 222, 225 [noting that
courts “must look beyond defendant’s sales activities in this state to
determine whether jurisdiction may constitutionally be assumed”].)
Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate by a preponderance of
evidence that Orica USA has sufficient contacts with California for this Court
to exercise specific jurisdiction over it.  
Where specific jurisdiction is based on a “stream of
commerce” theory, as Plaintiffs contend, the “purposeful availment” requirement
is not satisfied by the mere fact that the defendant placed the product into
the stream of commerce.  In J.
McIntyre Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro (2011) 564 U.S. 873, 882-883, the U.S.
Supreme Court addressed the question of whether in “stream of commerce” cases,
the “purposeful availment” requirement for specific jurisdiction could be
satisfied by a showing that a foreign manufacturer placed the goods into
commerce “with the expectation that they will be purchased by consumers in the
forum State,” (“injection into the stream of commerce” or “foreseeability” that
the product would be sold in the forum state) or if “purposeful availment” required
such “stream of commerce plus” other activities by a foreign defendant directed
at the forum State. (See J. McIntyre Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro (2011)
564 U.S. 873, 882-883.)
The plurality of the J. McIntyre Court resolved
the conflict in favor of the “stream of commerce plus” position articulated by
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in Asahi Metal Industry Co. v. Superior Court (1987)
480 U.S. 102: “This Court’s precedents make clear that it is the defendant’s
actions, not his expectations, that empower a State’s courts to subject him to
judgment.”  (J. McIntyre, 564
U.S. at pg. 883, emphasis added.)
Justice Stephen Breyer’s concurrence in J. McIntyre also
stated that based on precedent, a single sale would not support jurisdiction,
even if accompanied by a defendant’s efforts and intent to sell the product in
the United States generally.  (Id.
at pg. 888 (Breyer, J., concurring).)  The
concurrence acknowledged that under the “stream of commerce plus” test, the
court lacked jurisdiction over the defendant.  (Id.)  The concurrence also found the court lacked
jurisdiction based on “stream of commerce” plus a regular flow or regular
course of sale to the forum state, because there was no evidence of such
regular sales.  (Id. at pg. 889.)
In light of J. McIntyre, the Court of Appeal in Dow
Chemical Canada ULC v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 179,
found the Dow plaintiff failed to establish purposeful availment because
the record did not reflect any “activities in California that reveal an intent
to invoke or benefit from the protection of its laws. Nor is there any evidence
that the design of Dow’s product was in any way California-specific. It is not
sufficient for jurisdiction in this case that the defendant Dow might have predicted
or known that its products would reach California.” (Dow Chemical Canada ULC
v. Superior Court, 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 179.)  Thus, “mere knowledge, without something more,
is insufficient to establish jurisdiction in a forum state.”  (Bombardier Recreational Products, Inc. v.
Dow Chemical Canada ULC (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 591, 604 [even if foreign
manufacturer’s knowledge that its product would be incorporated into goods
intended for sale in the U.S., including California, were admitted into
evidence, that would be insufficient to establish purposeful availment]; see
also, Felix v. Bomoro Kommanditgesellschaft (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d
106, 116 [holding that jurisdiction may not be exercised over foreign
corporations simply because their products end up in the forum state].)
While the Court of Appeal in Bombardier Recreational
Products, Inc. v. Dow Chemical Canada ULC noted that J. McIntyre did
not clearly define what “more” is needed, it noted that purposeful availment
has been found where “a nonresident defendant purposefully directs its
activities at residents in the forum, purposefully derives benefit from its
activities in the forum, creates a ‘substantial connection’ with the forum,
deliberately has engaged in significant activities within the forum, or has
created ‘continuing obligations’ between itself and residents of the forum.” (Bombardier,
216 Cal.App.4th at pg. 602.)
Plaintiffs fail to submit admissible evidence that that Orica
USA has purposefully availed itself of the privileges of conducting activities in
the State of California; hearsay declarations are not competent proof of facts
alleged.  (Flovevor International Ltd.
v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 796 [stating attorney
declaration was “nothing more than inadmissible hearsay”].)
Further, Orica USA is a Delaware corporation with its
principal place of business in Colorado.  (Decl. of Hoots ¶¶3-4.) Orica USA has never
had directors, officers, employees, or agents resident in California. (Decl. of
Hoots ¶5.)  Orica USA does not and has
not maintained any offices or facilities in the State or California nor any
employees involved in the supply of products to customers. (Decl. of Hoots ¶6.)
Orica USA does not and has not owned, leased, possessed or maintained any real
or personal property in the State of California. (Decl. of Hoots ¶7.)  Orica USA does not have a telephone listing in
the State of California and does not have any bank accounts or savings and loan
accounts in the State of California.  (Decl.
of Hoots ¶¶8-9.) Orica USA does not directly advertise or market any products
to any person or entity in the State of California. (Decl. of Hoots ¶10.)  Orica USA’s lack of contact with the State of
California is such that it would not reasonably anticipate being haled into
court in California. (Decl. of Hoots ¶11.)
Plaintiffs’ Opposition also fails to address the requirement
for establishing specific jurisdiction over an out-of-state resident defendant
that “there is a substantial nexus or connection between the defendant’s forum
activities and the plaintiff’s claim.”  (Roman
v. Liberty University, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 670, 680.)  Plaintiffs failed to demonstrate that the
instant action arises out of or relates to Orica USA’s contacts with
California.  A corporation’s continuous
activity of some sort within a state (manufacturing/selling products generally)
is not enough to support the demand that the corporation is amenable to suits
unrelated to that activity.  (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 137 S. Ct. 1773, 1781.)  Here, “[w]hat is needed – and what is missing
here – is a connection between the forum and the specific claims at issue.”  (Id. at pg. 1776.)  Plaintiffs failed to meet their burden to
demonstrate Orica USA has purposefully availed itself of forum benefits and the
controversy is related to or arises out of Orica USA’s contacts with the
forum; therefore, Plaintiffs do not shift the burden to Orica USA to
demonstrate the Court’s assertion of personal jurisdiction over it would
comport with fair play and substantial justice.
The Court denies Plaintiffs’ request that if this Court is
inclined to grant the instant motion, it should defer ruling on the motion
until Plaintiffs have been able to conduct discovery.  (Opposition, pg. 9; HealthMarkets Inc v.
Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1173.)  Plaintiffs argue that discovery would allow
them to “explore whether the distributor relationship into which Orica has
entered may have constituted agency agreements with California businesses which
would be a separate possible avenue for conferring specific jurisdiction.”  (Opposition, pg. 9.)  However, the standard is not whether discovery
could lead to the production of evidence establishing jurisdiction, it
is whether discovery is likely to do so.  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &
II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) 
Plaintiffs’ speculation does not meet this standard.  (See id.)
          Based on the foregoing, Orica USA’ motion to quash service
of summons is granted.
 
Conclusion
Specially Appearing Defendant Orica USA Inc.’s motion to
quash service of summons is granted.
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  