  Case Number:  23AHCV01225    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
13, 2024                          TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         MARGARET CASTRO,
an individual v. LUXE 1801 INVESTMENT LP., a business entity; KAYLA CARBAJAL,
an individual; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01225
 
 
 
MOTION


 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Margaret Castro 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Luxe 1801 Investment LP 
 
SERVICE:                             Filed February 2, 2024 
 
OPPOSITION:                      Filed April 30, 2024 
 
REPLY:                                 None filed as of May 8, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendant Luxe 1801 Investment LP to respond to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatory No. 4.1 and for monetary sanctions against Defendant Luxe 1801
Investment LP and its counsel of record, Armand Kizirian of Kizirian Law Firm,
P.C., in the amount of $2,060.00. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises from Plaintiff Margaret
Castro (“Plaintiff”) slipping and falling on alleged defective stairs on
December 13, 2022, at a premises located at 1801 W. Garvey Ave., Alhambra, CA
91803 (the “Premises”). On June 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Defendants Luxe 1801 Investment LP (“Luxe”), Kayla Carbajal (“Carbajal”), and
DOES 1 through 100 alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2)
Premises Liability. Plaintiff alleges that the Premises were owned, managed,
and maintained in a negligent manner by Defendants. (Complaint, ¶
18.) 
 
            On August
8, 2023, Defendant Luxe filed an Answer to the Complaint.
            On August
14, 2023, Defendant Carbajal was dismissed from this action without prejudice. 
 
            On February
2, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant Motion to Compel Defendant
Luxe’s Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 and Request
for Sanctions. Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendant Luxe to provide a
further response to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory No. 4.1, and for monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,060.00 against Defendant Luxe and its counsel of
record. 
            
            On March
14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, which identified Defendant
Palos Verdes Management Co. LP (“PVM”) as Doe 1. 
 
            On April
18, 2024, Defendant PVM filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
            On April
30, 2024, Defendant Luxe filed and served an opposition brief. As of May 8,
2024, no reply brief has been filed. Any reply brief was required to have been
filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing under CCP §
1005(b). 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is GRANTED as to form interrogatory number
4.1.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
In California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in favor
of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes,
information is discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible
evidence.” (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.)
“Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)
 
A party may move for an order compelling a further response to
interrogatories where: (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive
or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under CCP §
2030.320 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate; or (3) an objection is without merit or is too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subds. (a)(1)-(3).)  
 
A motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must be “given
within 45 days of service of the verified responses, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and responding party have agreed in writing” otherwise “the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) 
 
 “While the party propounding
interrogatories may have the burden of filing a motion to compel if it finds
the answers it receives are unsatisfactory, the burden of justifying any
objection and failure to respond remains at all times with the party resisting
an interrogatory.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) 
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery
process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery
process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a
monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Overview
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1. On August 18,
2023, Plaintiff served her first set of Form Interrogatories, including Form
Interrogatory No. 4.1. (Ghermezian Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Ultimately, on January
19, 2024, Defendant Luxe provided unverified responses to Form Interrogatory
No. 4.1. (Ghermezian Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. D.) Counsel for Defendant Luxe, Armand R.
Kizirian (“Kizirian”), declares that verifications were provided on January 29,
2024. (Kizirian Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
            Interrogatory
No. 4.1: At the time of the INCIDENT, was there in effect any policy
of insurance through which you were or might be insured in any manner (for
example, primary, pro-rata, or excess liability coverage or medical expense)
for the damages, claims, or actions that have arisen out of the INCIDENT? If
so, for each policy state:
 
            (a)
the kind of coverage;
            (b)
the name and ADDRESS of the insurance company;
            (c)
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each named insured;
            (d)
the policy number;
            (e)
the limits of coverage for each type of coverage contained in the policy;
            (f)
whether any reservation of rights or controversy or coverage dispute exists
between
            you
and the insurance company; and 
            (g)
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the custodian of the policy. 
 
            In
response to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1, Defendant Luxe provided the following
response: 
 
Defendant incorporates by
reference each of the aforementioned general objections. Defendant objects to
this interrogatory because it seeks information that is not relevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant
further objects that this interrogatory is overly broad and burdensome.
Moreover, this interrogatory impinges on Defendant’s right to privacy. Subject to
and without waiving these objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defenant
has declined to invoke insurance coverage in this matter. Discovery is ongoing.
Defendant reserves the right to supplement this response while denying any
obligation to do so. 
 
            Application
 
            CCP §
2017.210 provides that “[a] party may obtain discovery of the existence and contents
of any agreement under which any insurance carrier may be liable to satisfy in
whole or in part a judgment that may be entered in the action or to indemnify
or reimburse for payments made to satisfy the judgment. This discovery may
include the identity of the carrier and the nature and limits of the coverage.”
Additionally, “[a] party may also obtain discovery as to whether that insurance
carrier is disputing the agreement’s coverage of the claim in the action, but
not as to the nature and substance of that dispute. Information concerning the insurance
agreement is not by reason of disclosure admissible in evidence at trial.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.210.) However, “an insurer is not the stand-in for the
insured. Plaintiffs can often sue the insured, but cannot sue the insurer until
there is a judgment or assignment of rights.” (Barajas v. Sativa L.A. County
Water Dist. (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1213, 1230.) 
 
            In
opposition to the motion, David L. Delgado (“Delgado”), declares that
Defendants Luxe and PVM have declined to activate insurance coverage in this
matter and are defending this suit out of pocket and, if Plaintiff is able to
secure a judgment in her favor, would pay for that judgment out of pocket.
(Delgado Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Delgado states that due to the decision of Defendants
Luxe and PVM, there effectively is no insurance coverage at issue in this
matter. (Delgado Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel has said that even if
Defendants do not initiate a claim with their carrier, he will write to their
carrier to inform them of Plaintiff’s claim to try to get them to step in.
(Delgado Decl., ¶ 5.) This would be an improper use of the carrier information.
(Delgado Decl., ¶ 5.) All Plaintiff could achieve by contacting Defendants’
carrier is to interfere in the relationship with their carrier. (Delgado Decl.,
¶ 6.) 
 
            The Court finds that compelling a
further response to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 is appropriate. The fact that
Defendants Luxe and PVM have decided to defend this matter out of pocket does
not obviate the fact that CCP § 2017.210 provides that Plaintiff “may obtain
discovery of the existence and contents of any agreement under which any
insurance carrier may be liable to satisfy in whole or in part a judgment that
may be entered in the action or to indemnify or reimburse for payments made to
satisfy the judgment.” 
 
Irrespective
of Defendants Luxe and PVM not tendering this matter to their insurance
carrier, it is undisputed that there is insurance coverage. Defendant Luxe did
not respond to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 as complete and straightforward as
the information reasonably available to Defenant Luxe permits. (CCP § 2030.220(a).)
The information sought by Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 is relevant. 
 
            The Court therefore ORDERS Defendant
Luxe to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 within 20 days of the
date of notice of this order.
 
            As to monetary sanctions,
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that his hourly rate is $400 per hour and that a
$60 filing fee was incurred as to the motion. (Ghermezian Decl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that he has spent 2.5 hours preparing the moving
papers and anticipates spending no less than 2.5 hours preparing the reply
brief and attending the hearing on the motion. (Ghermezian Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
            The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS
Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the reasonable amount of $460.00 (which
represents 1.0 hours of work on the motion plus the $60.00 filing fee). The
Court reduces the hours given the relative brevity of the motion and its
straightforward nature. Monetary sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff by
Defendant Luxe and its counsel of record, Armand Kizirian of Kizirian Law Firm,
P.C., jointly and severally, within 30 days of the date of notice of this
order. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant Luxe’s further responses to Form Interrogatory No.
4.1 is GRANTED. The Court ORDERS Defendant Luxe to provide verified, complete,
and code-compliant responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatory No. 4.1 within 20 days of the date of notice of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. The Court ORDERS Defendant
Luxe and its counsel of record, Armand Kizirian of Kizirian Law Firm, P.C., jointly
and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $460.00
within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
            
Dated:   May 13, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
