 Case Number:  22STCV30940    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




SL RETAIL OWNER, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NOWHERE SILVER LAKE, LLC, dba
  EREWHON., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV30940




Hearing Date:


September 24, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
SL RETAIL OWNER
  LLC’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




Background
Plaintiff SL Retail Owner LLC (“SL Retail”) filed this action on
September 21, 2022 against Defendants Nowhere Silver Lake, LLC dba Erewhon (“Erewhon”) and Nowhere
Holdco, LLC (jointly, the “Erewhon Parties”).
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2)
declaratory judgment. 
In the Complaint, SL Retail alleges, inter alia, that “Erewhon
has breached its Lease…with [SL Retail] by, among other things, (i) refusing to
pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in rent notwithstanding its booming
business at the Center[1];
(ii) overburdening the parking area at the Center with hundreds of employee
vehicles, usurping spaces that should be available to customers; (iii) refusing
to install a required electronic cart control system to prevent its shopping
carts from wandering into the common areas and elsewhere; and (iv) routinely
ignoring and violating the Center’s Rules and Regulations…” (Compl., ¶ 7.) SL
Retail further alleges that “[o]n or about August 25, 2019, [Nowhere Holdco,
LLC] executed a Guaranty of Lease in favor of [SL Retail].” (Compl., ¶ 24.) SL
Retail alleges that it “has repeatedly informed Erewhon and [Nowhere Holdco,
LLC] of their breaches under the Lease and Guaranty, respectively.
Nevertheless, neither Erewhon nor [Nowhere Holdco, LLC] has performed their
obligations under the Lease.” (Compl., ¶ 34.) 
On September 5, 2024,
Erewhon filed the operative Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) in this
action against Cross-Defendants Sportsmen’s Lodge Owner, LLC, SL Retail, and
Midwood Management Corp. aka Midwood Investment and Development. The TACC
alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud (concealment), (4) fraud (concealment), (5)
fraud (intentional misrepresentation), (6) negligent misrepresentation, (7)
violations of Business and Professions Code section
17200, et seq., and (8) declaratory relief.          
SL Retail now moves for an order granting it leave to file a first amended
complaint. The Erewhon Parties oppose. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. ((Id., § 576.) “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” ((Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to
amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend…” ((Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (¿¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿¿ The motion must
also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page,
paragraph, and line number.  (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd¿. (a).)
Finally, “¿[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1)¿The effect of the amendment; (2)¿Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)¿When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4)¿The reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.¿” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) 
In
his supporting declaration, SL Retail’s counsel states that “[a]ttached as Exhibit ‘A’ to the Motion
filed concurrently herewith is a true and correct copy of [SL Retail’s]
proposed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 2.) SL Retail’s counsel indicates that “[a]ttached as
Exhibit ‘B’ to the Motion filed concurrently herewith is a true and correct
copy of a red-line comparison between the original Complaint and the Proposed
FAC.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3.) 
SL
Retail’s counsel states that “[a]s shown in Exhibit B, the FAC (i) adds allegations
regarding Erewhon’s newly discovered breach of contract by de facto
assigning or subleasing the leased premises to a new entity – Nowhere Studio
City, LLC…; (ii) adds allegations regarding Erewhon’s newly discovered
misrepresentations regarding its usage of the common area, which [SL Retail]
relied upon with respect to calculating its common area maintenance (‘CAM’)
expenses; and (iii) adds allegations regarding these items to the declaratory
judgment claim.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3.) The proposed FAC also adds new causes of
action for intentional misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation. (Hicks
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) In addition, the proposed FAC deletes certain allegations
from the original Complaint. (Ibid.)
In
his declaration, SL Retail’s counsel states that “[o]n June 11, June 14, and June 18, 2024, [SL
Retail] took the depositions of Erewhon’s persons most qualified (‘PMQ’).
Specifically, on June 14, 2024, I took the deposition of Lance Shiring, one of
Erewhon’s PMQs. Mr. Shiring testified at length regarding the de facto
assignment or sublease of Erewhon’s lease to a new entity as of January 1,
2024, without [SL Retail’s] consent. This was
the first time that [SL Retail] learned that
Erewhon had formed a new entity and had transferred the operations of the store
at issue to it.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 4.) SL Retail’s counsel also states that “on
June 18, 2024, my colleague, Staci Tomita, took the deposition of Yuval
Chiprut, another of Erewhon’s PMQs. During the deposition, he authenticated
e-mails conveying Erewhon’s representations of the number of employees and
customers, which later proved to be false – severely under-representing the
volume of traffic Erewhon would place on the common area of the center.” (Hicks
Decl., ¶ 5.) 
SL
Retail’s counsel states that “[b]ased on information learned through the June 11, 14, and
18, 2024 depositions of Erewhon’s PMQs, and through document discovery and
analysis related thereto, [SL Retail] hereby seeks leave to amend. The FAC is
necessary and proper to adjudicate all disputes and issues between the parties
regarding the lease in one forum and avoid multiplicity of lawsuits, and the
alleged representations each party made regarding CAM expenses and usage of the
common area.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 6.) SL Retail’s counsel further states that “[l]eave
to amend was not sought sooner because [SL Retail] only recently took Erewhon’s
depositions and obtained the evidence which gave rise to these allegations.
Moreover, certain of the newly alleged breaches of contract occurred just this
past January, and [SL Retail] did not learn of them until the June 14, 2024
deposition.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 7.) 
In
the opposition, the Erewhon Parties assert that “Plaintiff’s new allegations
are futile, warranting the motion’s denial.” (Opp’n at p. 10:7.) The Erewhon
Parties assert that “Plaintiff’s
proposed new fraud claims based on employee parking are futile because
Plaintiff released them,” and that “Plaintiff’s proposed new fraud claims based
on estimated customer parking volume are also futile.” (Opp’n at p. 10:23-24;
12:10-11.) The Erewhon Parties also assert that 
“Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim
based on the Tenant entity ‘name change,’ is deficient as a matter of law.”
(Opp’n at p. 14:3-4.) 
However,
in Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1048, cited by SL Retail in the motion, the Court of Appeal noted
that “the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the
parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the
pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” Thus, the Court does not find that the asserted legal deficiency
of the proposed FAC warrants denial of leave to amend.
The Erewhon Parties also
argue that “Plaintiff’s proposed new claims are based on facts known to
Plaintiff for years, yet Plaintiff has no explanation for failing to allege
those claims earlier.” (Opp’n at p. 15:26-27.) 
First, the Erewhon Parties
note that the proposed FAC alleges that “[o]n October 11, 2018, Landlord
provided Erewhon with a copy of PCI’s Parking Management Plan, which estimated
between 7 and 14 employees in the parking lot each hour. In response, Erewhon
(Chiprut) stated, ‘We probably need to double our employee demand and it starts
as early as 5am’ – i.e., increasing the employee parking demand from between 7
and 14 to between 14 and 28 employee cars…Utilizing Erewhon’s representations
regarding car counts, Landlord obtained estimates regarding the cost to operate
and manage the parking lot at the Center.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶¶ 27-28.)
The proposed FAC also alleges that “[o]n August 16, 2018, after Landlord asked
Erewhon how many vehicles it anticipated having at the Center at one time,
Erewhon (Yuval Chiprut) sent an email to Landlord (Ben Besley) with the subject
line ‘Car count in parking’. Chiprut represented to Besley that Erewhon’s other
store averages ‘82 cars an hour’. However, after Erewhon opened for business at
the Center, Erewhon disclosed to Landlord that Erewhon’s customers took 200 to
300 parking spaces at the Center at peak hours (i.e., from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00
p.m. and from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.).” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶ 26.) 
In the proposed intentional
misrepresentation cause of action, SL Retail alleges, inter alia, that “Erewhon
represented to Landlord that it would have approximately 14 to 28 employees at
the Center at one time…Erewhon’s representations were false. Having operated
multiple stores at other sites, Erewhon knew or should have known that it would
have substantially more employees and more customers at the Center than relayed
to Landlord. Landlord is informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that
Erewhon has at least 40 employees at the Center at one time and may have as
many as 70 employees at the Center at one time, if not more. Erewhon also
represented that it had, on average, only 82 customer cars on site, withholding
the fact that it had 200 to 300 customer cars on site during peak hours.”
(Hicks Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶¶ 56-57.) SL Retail alleges that “Landlord relied on
Erewhon’s fraudulent misrepresentations and half-truths by, among other things,
using Erewhon’s misrepresentations and half-truths to come up with the $12.25
psf CAM estimate it provided to Erewhon.”  (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶ 59.) 
The proposed negligent
misrepresentation cause of action similarly alleges that “Erewhon represented
to Landlord that it would have approximately 14 to 28 employees at the Center
at one time. Erewhon also represented that it had, on average, only 82 customer
cars on site, withholding the fact that it had 200 to 300 customer cars on site
during peak hours…Erewhon made its representations to Landlord with no
reasonable grounds for believing those representations were true when they were
made and/or knew that such representations were misleading.” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. B, ¶¶ 63-64.) 
In their opposition, the
Erewhon Parties note that Erewhon’s TACC in this action alleges that “Erewhon
opened for business on November 11, 2021, and the Center’s Grand Opening Date
(according to Cross-Defendants) occurred on December 9, 2021.” (TACC, ¶ 50.)
The Erewhon Parties argue in the opposition to the instant motion that “[b]ecause
customers had been parking at the Center for (ten) 10 months by the time
Plaintiff filed its Complaint in September 2022—during which time Plaintiff had
to calculate the cost to operate the parking lot—Plaintiff had months of data
about parking volume and its associated costs. Plaintiff therefore could have
determined whether Erewhon’s statements regarding parking volume from August 16
and October 11, 2018 were accurate or reasonable.” (Opp’n at p. 16:8-12.) 
However, Erewhon does not
appear to provide evidence showing that “customers had been parking at the
Center for (ten) 10 months by the time Plaintiff filed its Complaint in
September 2022…” (Opp’n at p. 16:8-9.) SL Retail also argues in the reply that “[w]hether
Erewhon sent its…emails months ago, and thus such emails were in existence
prior to the filing of the Complaint, does not change the fact that [SL
Retail’s] analysis regarding CAM expenses was not underway until Erewhon
brought its SACC complaining for the first time about the $12.25 CAM estimate.”
(Reply at p. 5:13-16.)[2]

In addition, the Erewhon
Parties argue that “Plaintiff has also failed to promptly bring this Motion
after it actually discovered the entity ‘name change.’ Plaintiff has known long
before the June 2024 depositions of Erewhon’s Persons Most Qualified as
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Midwood’s July 25, 2023 letter to Nowhere Studio
City, LLC evidences.” (Opp’n at p. 17:10-13.) The Erewhon Parties submit the
Declaration of Tony Antoci, the Chief Executive Officer of Nowhere Studio City,
LLC. (Antoci Decl., ¶ 1.) In his supporting declaration, Mr. Antoci states that
“[o]n or about July 25, 2023, I received a letter from Plaintiff SL Retail
Owner, LLC and Cross-Defendant Midwood Management Corporation, dated July 25,
2023. That letter was addressed to Nowhere Studio City, LLC c/o Erewhon.”
(Antoci Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In the reply, SL Retail
counters that although “Erewhon claims that [SL Retail] knew about the
assignment in July 2023, based on a letter from [SL Retail] to Erewhon, dated
July 25, 2023, which was addressed to Nowhere Studio City, LLC,” “according to
Erewhon’s sworn testimony, the purported assignment did not take place until
January 2024.” (Reply at p. 2:8-12.) As discussed, SL Retail’s counsel states
in his supporting declaration that “Lance Shiring, one of Erewhon’s PMQs…testified
at length regarding the de facto assignment or sublease of Erewhon’s
lease to a new entity as of January 1, 2024…” (Hicks Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 1.) 
The Erewhon Parties also
assert that “Plaintiff’s inexcusable delay will prejudice [them].” (Opp’n at p.
17:17.) In his supporting declaration, the Erewhon Parties’ counsel states that
“[s]hould Plaintiff be granted leave to file its Proposed First Amended
Complaint, Erewhon will be forced to, at a minimum, conduct the following
additional discovery:…Erewhon will need to re-depose witnesses who have already
been deposed regarding the bases on which Plaintiff asserts these new claims;…Erewhon
will need to conduct additional written discovery on Plaintiffs’ new claims
and, although Erewhon anticipates Plaintiff will comply, there is a likelihood
discovery motion practice will be necessary;…Erewhon will likely need to
re-depose Mr. Besley—a former Midwood employee who is now a third-party witness
residing in Washington state—because he received Mr. Chiprut’s 2018 emails,
responded to them, and provided the parking information plan.” (Addison, Jr.
Decl., ¶ 5.) The Erewhon Parties’ counsel also asserts that “[p]reparing for
and taking these depositions as well as propounding this additional written
discovery will require Erewhon to expend significant funds. Because there is a
likelihood discovery motion practice may be necessary, Erewhon will be forced
to incur additional and substantial costs. Given the approaching discovery
cutoff, Erewhon will be prejudiced if forced to conduct this discovery in an
amount of time that is significantly shorter than it should have been afforded
had Plaintiff timely brought these new proposed claims.” (Addison, Jr. Decl., ¶
6.) 
In the reply, SL Retail
asserts that there is no prejudice to the Erewhon Parties, as “[t]rial is not
for months, and Erewhon has ample time to conduct any further discovery that it
deems necessary.” (Reply at p. 3:17-18.) Indeed, trial in this matter is
currently set for February 19, 2025. 
            Based on a consideration of the
foregoing, the Court finds that SL Retail has demonstrated good cause to file
the proposed FAC. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, SL Retail’s motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint is granted. The Court orders SL Retail to file and serve the first
amended complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order.¿¿SL Retail is
ordered to give notice of this Order.¿¿ 
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024                                   
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Cour


