 Case Number:  22STCV06517    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



DEVIN ESTIME, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH
  PLAN, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV06517




Hearing
  Date:


September
   24, 2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT;
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND ALL RELATED MOTION DATES



 
Background
Plaintiffs Devin Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, Arti Bhimani, Michel Estime, and Arti Bhimani filed this action on
February 22, 2022 against a number of defendants. On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff
Devin
Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Arti Bhimani (“Plaintiff”)
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against defendants
Southern California Permanente Medical Group and Enrique Earle Emel, M.D.
(jointly, “Defendants”). The SAC alleges causes of action for (1) negligence
and (2) unfair business practices.  
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a previous motion for leave to file
a third amended complaint. On August 16, 2024, the Court issued an Order
denying this motion without prejudice. 
Plaintiff now moves again for an order granting him leave to file a third
amended complaint. Defendants oppose. 
In addition, Defendants move “for an order to continue the Trial,
which is currently set for October 16, 2024, to May 1, 2025 or such other date
as is convenient with the Court [sic] parties, and counsel, schedule a Final
Status Conference, and to base all pre-trial dates and deadlines per Code based
upon the new trial date.” Plaintiff opposes. 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File Third Amended Complaint 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised
liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment
is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.” (Howard v. County of San
Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428 [internal citations omitted].) “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (¿¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿¿ The motion must
also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page,
paragraph, and line number.  (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd¿. (a).)
Finally, “¿[a] separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify: (1)¿The
effect of the amendment; (2)¿Why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3)¿When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4)¿The reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b), emphasis
added.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel attaches as Exhibit A to her declaration a copy of
Plaintiff’s proposed Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel provides a copy of the redlined version of
Plaintiff’s proposed TAC, showing the changes made to the SAC. (Ganesan Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex. B.) In the proposed TAC, Plaintiff seeks to add an additional cause of
action for fraudulent concealment against Defendants. (Ibid.)

The cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the proposed TAC
alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or about 11:00 am on March 8, 2021 at
Kaiser’s Baldwin Hills-Crenshaw medical offices, DEVIN and ARTI met with EMEL
for DEVIN’s wellness visit. During the visit, ARTI expressed her concern about
Devin’s hunched posture…EMEL listened to ARTI’s concerns and conducted an
examination of DEVIN, including of DEVIN’s back. In DEVIN’s medical records,
EMEL noted that he observed DEVIN had ‘mild lumbar scoliosis’ and diagnosed
DEVIN with ‘LUMBAR SCOLIOSIS’.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, ¶¶ 66-67.) The
cause of action alleges that “EMEL did not disclose this diagnosis to DEVIN or
ARTI…Instead, EMEL intentionally deceived them as to the cause of DEVIN’s
hunched posture, claiming that it was due to the way DEVIN used his cell phone,
and that it could be corrected by DEVIN holding up his phone when in use.” (Ibid., ¶¶ 68-69.) 
In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[s]ince
the SAC was filed, Plaintiff has sought and obtained additional evidence to
support its [sic] claims through discovery responses and depositions. For
example, Defendants’ initial responses served in October 2022 to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admissions Nos. 5 and 6 directed to Dr. Emel indicated that Dr.
Emel informed Plaintiff and/or his guardian that Plaintiff had scoliosis.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[g]iven Dr. Emel’s
initial discovery responses, Plaintiffs [sic] sought to conduct additional
discovery as to what information may have been provided to Plaintiff and/or
mother [sic] regarding Dr. Emel’s diagnosis of Plaintiff. Among other things,
Plaintiff’s sought to take the deposition of SCPMG’s PMQs as to the methodology
for obtaining and compiling documents produced by SCPMG in this case, including
the electronic medical records.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel
states that “[a]t the PMQ deposition on June 10, 2024, Plaintiff’s [sic] asked,
among other things, extensive questions on the electronic medical records
maintained by Defendants, how diagnosis codes are maintained in the records,
and the information that would be available to patients during and after a
patient visit.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel further states that “[a]fter SCPMG’s PMQ
deposition, I further consulted with our consulting expert as to electronic
medical information available to Plaintiff relating to the diagnosis inputted
by Dr. Emel after Plaintiff and his guardian left the March 8, 2021 medical
appointment. It was also during this time that Plaintiff was preparing for
mediation, which was set for July 18, 2024. In preparation for that mediation
and in doing a full analysis of the evidence obtained to date in the litigation
and related legal authority, I felt that Plaintiff had gathered sufficient
evidence to support a fraudulent concealment claim against Defendants.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[g]iven Dr. Emel’s
October 2022 discovery responses, I wanted to make sure that Plaintiff had
sufficient evidence to support an intentional tort claim. It was for this
reason that the claim was not asserted at the outset of the litigation, even
though it was based on the same set of general facts.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that “[i]nclusion of the fraudulent concealment claim is
necessary and proper to conform to the proof that Plaintiff has now gathered,
which was in the exclusive possession of Defendants…” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff argues that if leave to amend is not granted, “Plaintiff
would be denied the opportunity to try all claims it has against Defendants
relating to the same set of facts when there is no prejudice to Defendants from
Plaintiff’s adding of the claim at this point in the litigation.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 20.) 
In the opposition, Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff fails to offer any justification for delay in bringing
forth this new cause of action.” (Opp’n at p. 4:10-11.) Defendants cite to Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]lthough courts are bound to apply a
policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any
stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial, this policy should be
applied only where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party…A different
result is indicated where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party is shown.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s
fraudulent concealment cause of action, as he admits, is based on the same
facts as the ones mentioned in his SAC. Plaintiff filed the SAC on January 26,
2024, thus, he should have added this cause of action in the SAC or sought
leave to amend and add this new cause of action.” (Opp’n at p. 4:18-20.) In
addition, Defendants’ counsel states that “Plaintiff deposed Dr. Emel on
October 16, 2023. Dr. Emel was asked if he recalled telling Plaintiff and his
mother during the visit about the diagnosis of scoliosis, and Dr. Emel said
that it was his custom and practice to do so, but he does not have a specific
recollection about the conversation that he had with them two years prior.”
(Bradford Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff could have filed a
motion to amend the complaint after Dr. Emel was deposed back in 2023 and cited
to Dr. Emel’s testimony as evidence of fraudulent concealment. But he did not
do so.” (Opp’n at p. 5:5-7.) 
Defendants’ counsel also states
that “Defendants produced Plaintiff’s medical chart in multiple formats,
including all metadata, which shows the diagnosis of scoliosis entered on March
8, 2021. Moreover, the PMQ depositions that Plaintiff claims were not timely
taken causing further delay in bringing forth this motion, had nothing to do
with the evidence necessary to establish fraudulent concealment. Plaintiff
noticed the deposition of PMQ regarding scoliosis data, PMQ regarding the
number of minors whom Dr. Emel diagnosed with scoliosis, and the PMQ regarding
metadata which Plaintiff’s counsel arbitrarily terminated.” (Bradford Decl., ¶
10.) Defendants argue that “[s]ince there is no excuse or justification offered
for the delay, Plaintiff’s motion must be denied.” (Opp’n at p. 5:20.) 
However, as discussed,
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts in her supporting declaration that “[i]n
preparation for [a July 18, 2024] mediation and in doing a full analysis of the
evidence obtained to date in the litigation and related legal authority, I felt
that Plaintiff had gathered sufficient evidence to support a fraudulent
concealment claim against Defendants.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states, as discussed, that “[g]iven Dr. Emel’s initial discovery
responses, Plaintiffs [sic] sought to conduct additional discovery as to what
information may have been provided to Plaintiff and/or mother [sic] regarding
Dr. Emel’s diagnosis of Plaintiff.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) 
Defendants also assert that
Plaintiff’s motion is prejudicial to them. In his supporting declaration,
Defendants’ counsel asserts that “Defendants will be prejudiced by this
amendment because it will delay the trial. Defendants will be prejudiced by
this amendment because they will have to, albeit partially, start the case all
over again, and unlike Plaintiff’s suggestion to the contrary, file pleading
challenges, interview witnesses, and possibly seek additional deposition of
Plaintiff and his parents.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 11.) Defendants’ counsel states
that “[t]he added costs associated with these additional prosecutorial steps is
unknown at this time but can be computed and relayed to the Court upon request.”
(Bradford Decl., ¶ 11.) In the reply, Plaintiff counters that granting leave to
amend would not prejudice Defendants because the proposed fraudulent
concealment cause of action “is premised on the same general set of facts that
were alleged in the original complaint.” (Reply at p. 4:6.) 
            Defendants
also argue that the proposed fraudulent concealment cause of action is barred
by the statute of limitations. However, the Court notes that in Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048,
the Court of Appeal found that “the preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” Thus,
the Court does not find that the asserted legal deficiency of the proposed amendment
warrants denial of leave to amend.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated good cause for leave to file the proposed Third Amended Complaint.

Lastly, Defendants assert
that “if this Court decides to grant this motion and allow leave to amend the complaint,
Defendants respectfully ask that this Court vacate the trial date and continue
the trial and all trial related deadlines by six (6) months. The continuance is
necessary to file responsive pleading, conduct discovery, take necessary
depositions, and file any additional statutorily assured motions.” (Opp’n at p.
7:6-9.) Defendants’ request for a trial continuance is discussed below in
connection with Defendants’ motion to continue trial. 
Defendants’ Motion to
Continue Trial and All Related Motion Dates 
“The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).) “In
ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all
the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the determination.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d).)  
Defendants assert that good cause exists to
continue the trial date here. Trial is currently set in this matter for October
16, 2024.  
First, Defendants assert that “[t]here is good
cause to continue the trial, because pleading disputes remain unresolved.
Plaintiff filed a second Motion for Leave to Amend to file the Third Amended
Complaint, set to be heard on September 24, 2024.” (Mot. at p. 5:11-13.)
Defendants’ counsel states that “[i]f the motion gets granted, Defendants
intend to file a Demurrer to the new cause of action of Fraudulent Concealment.”
(Bradford Decl., ¶ 4.) As set forth in the instant Order, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a third amended
complaint. 
Defendants note that circumstances relevant to
the Court’s determination of a motion for a trial continuance include, inter
alia, “[t]he proximity of the trial date.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d)(1).) Defendants assert that “the
trial is proximate enough that it will be impossible to resolve pleading
disputes...” (Mot. at p. 6:21.) Circumstances relevant to the Court’s
determination of a motion for a trial continuance also include “[w]hether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d)(10).)  
In the opposition, Plaintiff contends that his
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint does not necessitate a trial
continuance. Plaintiff asserts that “[e]ven accepting for the sake of argument
that Defendants’ will have a basis for a demurrer that should be heard,
Plaintiff will stipulate to shorten notice so that Defendants can have their
demurrer heard at the final status conference on October 4, 2024 or shortly
thereafter, but before trial.” (Opp’n at p. 6:2-5.) Plaintiff does not cite any
legal authority to support this approach, and the Court does not find that this
proposed schedule is reasonable. Defendants assert that “[i]n the event that
this Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file TAC, Defendants should…be
granted sufficient time and opportunity to file any statutorily allowed motions
under Code of Civil Procedure.” (Reply at p. 3:2-3.) The Court agrees.
Defendants also assert that “[g]ood cause also
exists to continue the trial because discovery is still ongoing.” (Mot. at p.
5:18.) Defendants note that circumstances that may indicate good cause for
a continuance include “[a] party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c)(6).) Circumstances
relevant to the Court’s determination of a motion for a trial continuance also
include, as discussed, “[t]he proximity of the trial date.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d)(1).) 

Defendants’ counsel states that “Defendants sought Plaintiff’s second
IME, which he objected to…Defendants filed a Motion to Compel the IME set to be
heard in January 2025, and moved ex parte to advance the date of the hearing,
however, the Court ordered parties to meet and confer, attend an IDC, and if
the issue persists, the Court will hear the motion. Defendants reserved October
15, 2024 (one day before trial), for the IDC.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants’
counsel also states that “Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Naomi Lago for
August 30, 2024, which Defendants will object to, necessitating a meet and
confer, an IDC, and most likely motion practice.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendants
assert that “the trial is proximate enough that it will be impossible to…complete
discovery, take necessary depositions, and compel Plaintiff to submit to second
IME.” (Mot. at p. 6:21-22.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Rule
3.1332(c) states a continuance may be granted based on an affirmative
showing through a declaration of ‘[a] party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.’…Defendants’ declaration does not satisfy the requirements of Rule 3.1332(c). Mr. Bradford does not state in the
declaration supporting the motion for a continuance why Defendants are
requesting a second IME now when discovery has been pending for nearly two
years. Defendants’ fail to establish their due diligence in obtaining this
discovery.” (Opp’n at p. 7:5-11, emphasis omitted.) But as discussed, Defendants’
counsel indicates that Defendants “filed a Motion to Compel the IME set to be
heard in January 2025,” and that they “moved ex parte to advance the date of
the hearing, however, the Court ordered parties to meet and confer, attend an
IDC, and if the issue persists, the Court will hear the motion.” (Bradford
Decl., ¶ 7.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff also contends that Defendants’ objection to
the deposition of Naomi Lago is “improper” and that Defendants “now seek to use
their improper objection as a basis for a trial continuance.” (Opp’n at p.
9:20-21.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff noticed the deposition of
Naomi Lago for August 30, 2024. Ms. Lago is a witness who was identified by
each of SCPMG’s PMQs at their respective depositions as a person having been
involved in producing the documents responsive to discovery in this case.
Defendants served objected [sic] to the deposition claiming that they did not
believe Ms. Lago had relevant information.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12.) In the
reply, Defendants assert that it is conjectural for Plaintiff to argue that
Defendants are raising “improper objections” to discovery as a basis for a
trial continuance. The Court agrees. Plaintiff does not appear to provide any
evidence to support this argument.  
            Plaintiff
also asserts that he will be prejudiced by a trial continuance. Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[a]t this point in the litigation, the parties have
exchanged expert witness lists, have noticed expert depositions, and met and
conferred on motions in limine. Plaintiff is also in the process of drafting
the trial documents and will be ready and prepared to try this case at the
currently scheduled time.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel asserts
that “Plaintiff would be prejudiced if the fact discovery deadline is
continuance [sic] because the parties have already exchanged expert
disclosures, and will be in the midst of expert discovery by the time this
Motion is heard. Additional fact discovery could disturb the experts and
opinions that are being exchanged, and would cause expert and fact discovery to
bleed into one another.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 14.) In the reply, Defendants argue
that “[i]t is…disingenuous for Plaintiff to claim that he will be prejudiced by
a trial continuance given that he is motioning the Court to allow him leave to
amend his complaint…Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel made a representation during
a telephonic communication with defense counsel that trial continuance is
agreeable, however, as soon as the motion was filed, Plaintiff had a sudden
change of heart…” (Reply at p. 5:6-12.) Indeed, Plaintiff’s counsel’s August 19, 2024 declaration in support of Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to file third amended complaint provides that “[t]o the extent that Defendants
asserts it needs additional time to respond to the complaint, on August 16,
2024 I telephoned Plaintiff’s counsel, Thomas Bradford, and offered to
stipulate to a three-month extension of the trial date.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 21.)

Lastly, Plaintiff argues that “even if leave to file Plaintiff’s TAC
is granted, the facts upon which the TAC is based are all in Defendants’
possession or overlap with the facts applicable to the other claims,” such that
the fact discovery deadline should not be continued. (Opp’n at pp. 10:24-25;
11:1.) However, the Court agrees with Defendants that they should have the
opportunity to conduct discovery in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure
regarding Plaintiff’s new cause of action. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Defendants have demonstrated good cause for a trial continuance.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to file a third amended complaint is granted. The Court orders Plaintiff to file
and serve the Third Amended Complaint within three days of the date of this Order. 
Defendants’ motion to continue trial is granted. The
Court continues the final status conference to ______________, at 10:00 a.m.,
in Dept. 50 and trial to _____________, at 9:30 a.m., in Dept. 50. All
discovery deadlines are continued based on the new trial date. 
///
///
Plaintiff is ordered to
give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024                                                
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court