 Case Number:  21STCV34530    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



AZUSA GARVEY
  PROPERTIES, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
WEST COVINA AUTO PLAZA ASSOCIATION, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV34530




Hearing Date:


September 24, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 



 
Background
On September 20, 2021, Plaintiff Azusa
Garvey Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc. (“the Association”) and Simon Sarriedine (“Sarriedine”)
(jointly, “Defendants”). The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, and (2) declaratory relief. The first cause of
action is alleged against Sarriedine and the second cause of
action is alleged against the Association.  
Defendants now move for summary
judgment. Plaintiff opposes.  
Requests for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for
judicial notice. 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits C and E. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice as to Exhibit G. 
 
 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Simon Sarriedine as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled
            The Court rules on
Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Tarif Alhassen as
follows: 
            Objection No. 1: sustained
as to “such that any meetings of the Advisory Board for the BID were meetings
of the Association and any action taken by the Advisory Board for the BID was
action taken by the Association,” overruled as to the remainder. 
            Objection No. 2: sustained
as to “[m]eetings of the BID and meetings of the Advisory Board for the BID are
conducted pursuant to and consistent with the procedures set forth in the
Bylaws for the Association,” overruled as to the remainder. 
            The Court rules on
Defendants’ evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Christopher J. Petersen
as follows: 
            Objection No. 1: overruled.

Legal Standard 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿
“A
defendant or cross-defendant has met that party’s burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant
or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion
A.   
Allegations
of the Complaint
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that the Association is comprised of seven membership positions, each
representing one of the automobile dealership properties located within the City
of West Covina Auto Plaza (the “Auto Plaza”). (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 20.) Plaintiff is a member of the Association due to its ownership of three
properties within the Auto Plaza, including 1900 E. Garvey Avenue South.
(Compl., ¶ 22.) Envision Motors is another member of the Association. (Compl.,
¶ 23.) In or around late 2019, Sarriedine, the President and Chief Executive
Officer of Envision Motors, became the Chief Executive Officer of the
Association and a director of the Association. (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
In
late 2019, Plaintiff informed the City of West Covina (the “City”) that Enterprise
expressed interest in leasing its property located at 1900 E. Garvey Avenue
South (“the 1900 Property”) for purposes of operating a used automobile
dealership. (Compl., ¶¶ 2, 3, 28.) After Plaintiff disclosed to the City the
specific details of its proposed lease with Enterprise, including the monthly
rent of $42,000.00, Sarriedine and others at Envision Motors began efforts to
lease or purchase the 1900 Property from Plaintiff at below market rates. (Compl.,
¶ 5.) Plaintiff rejected those offers and refused to lease or sell the 1900
Property to Envision Motors. (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff alleges
that in July 2021, City staff at the direction of the Secretary of
the Association purported to notice a meeting of the Association at which the
issues of “aesthetics” and “security” at the Auto Plaza would be discussed (the
“July Meeting”). (Compl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges that notice of the July
Meeting of the Association did not comply with the notice requirements of the
Bylaws of the Association. (Ibid.) In addition, notice of the July
Meeting was sent to Plaintiff at an address that Sarriedine knew was not
occupied by Plaintiff. (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff did not attend the July Meeting
because it did not have notice of the meeting. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff later
learned that despite the limited items listed on the agenda for the July
Meeting, the Association did more than discuss aesthetics and security at the
Auto Plaza during the meeting. (Ibid.) Specifically, the Association voted
to authorize Sarriedine to request, on behalf of the Association, the
implementation of an overlay zone in the Auto Plaza expressly prohibiting any
used car dealership from operating at the 1900 Property. (Compl., ¶¶ 7, 39.) Plaintiff
alleges that by engaging in this conduct, Sarriedine intended to disrupt the
relationship between Plaintiff and Enterprise. (Compl., ¶ 40.)  
B.     First and Second
Causes of Action of the Complaint 
In
the first cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Sarriedine knew
of the relationship between Plaintiff and Enterprise and the intent that
Enterprise would lease the 1900 Property for the purpose of operating a used
car dealership at the property.” (Compl., ¶ 38.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ith
knowledge of the relationship between plaintiff and Enterprise, Sarriedine, as
an officer and director of the Association, caused the Association to disregard
its Bylaws and Articles to hold the improper and illegal July Meeting at which
the Association took the ultra vires act of authorizing Sarreidine to request,
on behalf of the Association, the implementation of an overlay zone in the Auto
Plaza expressly prohibiting the operation of a used car dealership at the 1900
Property.” (Compl., ¶ 39.) Plaintiff alleges that “[b]y engaging in this
conduct, Sarriedine intended to disrupt the relationship between Plaintiff and
Enterprise or, at a minimum, knew that disruption of the relationship was
certain or substantially certain to occur as a result of his actions.” (Compl.,
¶ 40.) 
In the second cause of action for declaratory relief, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[a] present and actual controversy now exists
between Plaintiff and the Association…Plaintiff contends that the July Meeting
of the Association was not properly noticed or agendized as required by the
Bylaws of the Association and that the action taken violated the Articles of
the Association and, as such, any action taken by the Association at the July
Meeting is invalid and must be rescinded…Plaintiff is informed and believes,
and based thereon alleges, that the Association, under the direction and
control of Sarriedine and Morales, contends that the July Meeting of the
Association was properly noticed and agendized as required by the Bylaws of the
Association and that the action taken by the Association at the July Meeting
was authorized and is valid and binding.” (Compl., ¶¶ 45-47.) Plaintiff alleges
that “[a] judicial declaration regarding the parties’ respective rights under
the Bylaws and the Articles of the Association is necessary and appropriate at
this time to resolve this controversy and Plaintiff requests an order that: (a)
the July Meeting was conducted in violation of the Bylaws of the Association;
(b) the action taken at the July Meeting by the Association violated the Bylaws
and Articles of the Association; and (c) the Association is required to
formally rescind any resolution passed or action taken at the July Meeting.”
(Compl., ¶ 48.) 
 In the instant motion,
Defendants argue that they “are entitled to summary judgment because the July
meeting never happened.” (Mot. at p. 7:20-21.) Defendants assert that “[t]he
undisputed facts establish that the Association never held the July Meeting.”
(Mot. at p. 8:16.) 
Defendants submit the Declaration of Simon Sarriedine, who is the President
of the West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc. (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Sarriedine
states that “[t]he West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc. (the ‘Association’)
is a non-profit mutual benefit corporation that was formed to act as a trade
association for retail dealers of automobiles in the City of West Covina.”
(Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Sarriedine further states that “I did not instruct
anyone to notice a meeting of the Association for July 6, 2021. The Association
did not notice a meeting for July 6, 2021. The Association did not hold a
meeting on July 6, 2021.” (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 6.)
Mr.
Sarriedine further states that he is the President of the West Covina Auto
Plaza Business Improvement District (the “BID”). (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Sarriedine
states that “[t]he BID works in conjunction with the Association and the
dealerships in the Auto Plaza, whose members serve as the advisory board.” (Sarriedine
Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Sarriedine states that “[t]he BID held a meeting on July 6,
2021, where it was agreed that the BID would request that the West Covina City
Council create the Overlay Zone that prohibited used car dealerships from
operating in the Auto Plaza.” (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Exhibit
5 to Mr. Sarriedine’s declaration is a copy of the “Minutes for the Special
Meeting of the Advisory Board for the West Covina Auto Plaza Business
Improvement District.” (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 5.) These minutes state “Tuesday,
July 6, 2021” under “Date & Time,” and provide, inter alia, that “Staff
discussed the process necessary for the creation of an Overlay Zone at the West
Covina Auto Plaza. Items covered within the discussion included aesthetic
standards within the Auto Plaza and security concerns within the center. Uses
within the district were also discussed.” (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 5.) 
Defendants
assert that accordingly, “[t]he fatal flaw to [Plaintiff’s] claim is that the
Association never held a meeting that authorized Sarriedine to request the
zoning change. Nor did Sarriedine cause the Association to notice such a
meeting. Rather, the meeting that [Plaintiff] takes issue with is one held by
the West Covina Auto Plaza Business Improvement District…” (Mot. at p.
3:24-27.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts, inter alia, that “the
evidence submitted by Plaintiff creates triable issues of material fact
regarding whether: (1) the Advisory Board for the BID is the same as the
Association; and (2) the Auto Plaza overlay zone was requested by the
Association.” (Opp’n at p. 6:25-27.) 
Plaintiff asserts that “City Resolution No. 9071, which created the
Advisory Board for the BID, establishes that the BID is composed of the members
of the Association and that the
members
of the Association and the Advisory Board for the BID have always been
identical.” (Opp’n at p. 7:11-13.) Exhibit “G” to Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice is “Resolution No. 9071,” a “Resolution of the City Council of the City
of West Covina to Appoint the Members of the West Covina Auto Plaza
Association, Inc. to be the Advisory Board for the West Covina Auto Plaza
Business Improvement District.” (Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. G.) 
            Resolution No. 9071 provides, inter
alia, that “[o]n June 1, 1993, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 1923,
which established the West Covina Auto Plaza Business Improvement District for
purposes of levying an assessment within the designated district area.”
(Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. G.) Resolution No. 9071 further provides that “[t]he
Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 (Streets
and Highways Code section 36500, et seq.) requires the City Council to
designate or appoint an Advisory Board, which will recommend the method and
basis of levying the assessment.” (Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. G.) Resolution No. 9071
provides that “[t]he City Council proposes to appoint the members of the West
Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc. to be the Advisory Board for the West Covina
Auto Plaza Business Improvement District pursuant to the Parking and Business
Improvement Area Law of 1989.” (Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. G.)[1] 
But Plaintiff does not appear to provide evidence showing that the “Advisory
Board for the West Covina Auto Plaza Business Improvement District” and the “West
Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc.” are the same legal entity. As discussed,
in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ith knowledge of the relationship
between plaintiff and Enterprise, Sarriedine, as an officer and director of the
Association, caused the Association to disregard its Bylaws and Articles to
hold the improper and illegal July Meeting at which the Association took
the ultra vires act of authorizing Sarreidine to request, on behalf of the
Association, the implementation of an overlay zone in the Auto Plaza…”
(Compl., ¶ 39, emphasis added.) The “Association” that is the defendant in this
action is the “West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc.” (Compl., ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff does not appear to provide any evidence with the opposition showing that
any meeting of “West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc.” took place in July of
2021. 
In the reply, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff seeks to create a
triable issue of fact by claiming that there is no distinction between the
Association and the BID. To the contrary, the Association is a California
corporation and the BID is a governmental entity created by the Legislature,
which subsequently created an Advisory Board for the BID. The fact that the
same people are part of both the Association and the BID’s Advisory Board does
not demonstrate that the two entities are really just one entity.” (Reply at p.
2:6-10, emphasis omitted.) Indeed, Plaintiff does not appear to provide any legal
authority to support the proposition that “West Covina Auto Plaza Association,
Inc.” and the “Advisory Board for the West Covina Auto Plaza Business
Improvement District” are the same entity because the members of the
Association are on the Advisory Board. 
As
discussed above, Mr. Sarriedine states that “[t]he West Covina Auto Plaza
Association, Inc. (the ‘Association’) is a non-profit mutual benefit
corporation that was formed to act as a trade association for retail dealers of
automobiles in the City of West Covina.” (Sarriedine Decl., ¶ 4.) As
further discussed, Resolution No. 9071 provides, inter alia, that “[o]n
June 1, 1993, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 1923, which established
the West Covina Auto Plaza Business Improvement District for purposes of
levying an assessment within the designated district area.” (Plaintiff’s RJN,
Ex. G.)
Plaintiff also submits the Declaration of Tarif Alhassen, the manager
of Azusa Garvey Properties, LLC, who states that “[a]t all times, my
understanding has been that there is no difference between the Advisory Board
for the BID and the Association…” (Alhassen Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5.) In the reply,
Defendants counter that “the fact that the individuals involved with both
entities are sometime confused as to which entity is taking action does not
deprive either entity of its independent legal status.” (Reply at p. 2:11-12.)
Indeed, Plaintiff does not cite to legal authority supporting the proposition
that the Advisory Board for the West Covina Auto Plaza Business Improvement
District and the West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc. are the same legal entity
because Plaintiff’s manager’s understanding was there was “no difference”
between such entities. 
Mr. Alhassen also states in his declaration that “for meetings
scheduled for May 26, 2019 and May 26, 2021, I received emails from the
Secretary of the Association purporting to provide notice of a meeting for the
BID. Each of those email notices, like all other email notices for meetings of
the BID that I have received is addressed to the ‘Auto Plaza Association’.” (Alhassen
Decl., ¶ 6(e).) But the May 13, 2021 email provided states, inter alia,
“Dear Auto Plaza Association, The Auto Plaza Business Improvement District
(BID) annual meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 26, 2021 at 10:00 a.m.”
(Alhassen Decl., ¶ 6(e), Ex. A, underline added.) This email does not appear to
reference any meeting of the West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc.
Plaintiff also asserts in the opposition that “[t]he Association (Not
the BID) requested the Auto Plaza Overlay Zone.” (Opp’n at p. 3:7.) As
discussed, Plaintiff alleges that “the Association took the ultra vires act of
authorizing Sarreidine to request, on behalf of the Association, the
implementation of an overlay zone in the Auto Plaza…” (Compl., ¶ 39.) Plaintiff
cites to Exhibit 3 to Defendants’ counsel’s declaration in support of the
motion. (Gubernick Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) Exhibit 3 is “Ordinance No. 2486,” which
is “An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of West Covina, California,
Adopting Zone Change No. 21-01 and Creating the Auto Plaza Overlay Zone.” (Gubernick
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) Ordinance No. 2486 provides, inter alia, that “on
July 20, 2021, the City Council considered a request made by the Advisory
Board of the West Covina Auto Plaza Business Association to create an Auto
Plaza Overlay zone…” (Gubernick Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3, emphasis added.) 
As an initial matter, the Defendant named in the Complaint here is the
“West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc.,” not the “West Covina Auto Plaza Business
Association.” And as discussed, the basis of Plaintiff’s cause of action for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage is that “[w]ith
knowledge of the relationship between plaintiff and Enterprise, Sarriedine, as
an officer and director of the Association, caused the Association to
disregard its Bylaws and Articles to hold the improper and illegal July Meeting[2]
at which the Association took the ultra vires act of authorizing Sarreidine to
request, on behalf of the Association, the implementation of an overlay zone
in the Auto Plaza expressly prohibiting the operation of a used car dealership
at the 1900 Property.” (Compl., ¶ 39.) As discussed, Plaintiff does not appear
to provide any evidence showing that a meeting of the “West Covina Auto Plaza
Association, Inc.” took place in July of 2021 at which the Association
authorized Sarreidine to request, on behalf of the Association, the
implementation of an overlay zone. (Ibid.)

Plaintiff’s declaratory relief cause of action is similarly based on
allegations concerning the “July Meeting,” and as discussed, Plaintiff seeks an
order that “(a) the July Meeting was conducted in violation of the Bylaws of
the Association; (b) the action taken at the July Meeting by the Association
violated the Bylaws and Articles of the Association; and (c) the Association is
required to formally rescind any resolution passed or action taken at the July
Meeting.” (Compl., ¶ 48.) 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden of demonstrating
that Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action are without merit. As
discussed, Defendants provide evidence that the West Covina Auto Plaza
Association, Inc. did not hold a meeting on July 6, 2021, and that a special
meeting of the Advisory Board for the West Covina Auto Plaza Business
Improvement District took place on this date. The Court does not find that Plaintiff has
raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether the alleged “July
Meeting” of the West Covina Auto Plaza Association, Inc. took place.
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is granted. The
Court orders Defendants to file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days of
the date of this Order.
/// 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


