 Case Number:  24AHCV00190    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL Set One, FORM
INTERROGATORIES – EMPLOYMENT Set One, FORM INTERROGATORIES PRE-TRIAL
SUPPLEMENTAL Set One, REQUEST OF PRODUCTION- PRE TRIAL-SUPPLEMENTAL Set One,
REQUEST OF PRODUCTION – Set One, REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION BE DEEMED ADMITTED Set
One   I.               
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff, Chrisoula Kousoulis (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against
Defendant USC Arcadia Hospital (“Defendant”), alleging causes of action for (1)
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or Retaliation, (2) Constructive
Discharge, (3) Hostile Work Environment, (4) Defamation, and (5) Publication of
Private Facts - Invasion of Privacy. Plaintiff worked as a Nuclear Medicine
Technician at Defendant’s facility from December 2019 until her resignation in
September 2022. Plaintiff claims that her supervisor bullied and harassed her
due to her decision not to receive the COVID-19 vaccine for personal reasons.
During discovery, Defendant served Plaintiff with six discovery requests:
(1) Form Interrogatories – General Set One, (2) Form Interrogatories –
Employment Set One, (3) Form Interrogatories – Pre-Trial Supplemental Set One,
(4) Request for Production – Pre-Trial Supplemental Set One, (5) Request for
Production Set One, and (6) Requests for Admission Set One. Defendant has filed
six motions to compel Plaintiff to serve verified responses and produce documents
and seeks monetary sanctions of $960 for each respective motion. The Court will
address these motions in one tentative ruling as follows:
            II.        REQUESTS
FOR ADMISSIONS – RFA Set One
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other
party to the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth
of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law
to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy
between the parties.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.010.)¿ “Within 30 days after
service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed
shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a
copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared . . . .”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.250(a).)  
If a party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a
timely response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any
objections, including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(a).) The requesting party can move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this order unless the party to
whom the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to
the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).) 
It is well-settled that “unsworn responses are tantamount to no responses
at all.”  (Appleton v. Superior Court (1888) 206 Cal.App.3d 632,
636; Zorro Inv. Co. v. Great Pacific Securities Corp. (1977) 69
Cal.App.3d 907, 914.)   
Defendant USC Arcadia Hospital served its RFAs (Set One) on May 26, 2023,
making Plaintiff’s responses due by June 26, 2023. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 3, Exh.
A.) On June 19, 2023, Plaintiff served responses; however, these responses were
not verified, rendering them incomplete under California law. (Croutch Decl.,
Exh. B.) Despite communication between the parties the responses remained
unverified. Subsequently, Plaintiff’s counsel, Mr. Brian M. Heit, filed a
motion to be relieved as counsel on May 22, 2024. (Croutch Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) This
motion was denied after Plaintiff failed to appear at the hearing on July 3,
2024. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 5.)
Since Plaintiff failed to serve verified responses as required by
statute, Defendant filed this motion to deem the RFAs admitted. As of the date
of this hearing, Plaintiff has not served verified responses. Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.280(b), if a party fails to serve timely
responses, the requesting party may move for an order that the matters
specified in the RFAs be deemed admitted. The court must grant this motion
unless verified responses are served before the hearing.
Because no verified responses have been filed as of the date of the
hearing, Defendant’s motion to deem the RFAs admitted must be granted.
Accordingly, Defendant’s request to deem the RFAs admitted is GRANTED.
 
III.      FORM
INTERROGATORIES – Form Interrogatories General – Set One, Form Interrogatories
Employment – Set One and Pre-Trial Supplemental Interrogatories
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290(a), if a party fails to
respond to interrogatories, they waive any objections, including those based on
privilege or work product protection. When a party does not provide timely
responses, the propounding party is entitled to move for an order compelling
responses. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290(b), the Court
must order the responding party to provide responses without objections.
Here, Defendant served Plaintiff with discovery requests on May 26, 2023,
for Form Interrogatories - General Set One and Form Interrogatories Employment
– Set One (Croutch Decl., ¶ 3) Plaintiff served responses on June 19,
2023, but these responses were unverified. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 4) Despite
several meet and confer attempts, no verified responses were provided by
Plaintiff to date. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 6) 
Here, Defendant properly served the Pre-Trial Supplemental Interrogatories
Set One on June 13, 2024. Plaintiff has not served responses by the deadline of
July 15, 2024, nor has Plaintiff requested an extension. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 4.)
As Plaintiff failed to provide any responses, Defendant’s motion to compel is
justified under the statute. As of date of the hearing, Plaintiff has not
served responses, and thus the motion to compel responses without objections is
appropriate.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants motion to compel for Form
Interrogatories – General Set One, Form Interrogatories Employment – Set One
and Pre-Trial Supplemental Interrogatories Set One
Given that Plaintiff failed to
provide verified response to Form Interrogatories – General Set One and Form
Interrogatories Employment – Set One, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to
Compel.  
 
IV.       REQUEST
FOR PRODUCTION – RFP Pre-Trial Supplemental Set One and RFP Set One
A propounding party may move to compel responses to requests for
production of documents where the responding party fails to provide responses.
(CCP § 2031.300.) The responding party must provide responses within thirty
days after the demand is served. (CCP § 2031.030(c)(2) & (3).) The
responding party waives all objections, including privilege and work product,
by failing to timely respond to requests for production of documents. (CCP §
2031.300.) 
Here, Defendant served the Pre-Trial Supplemental Requests for Production
Set One on June 13, 2024, and Plaintiff has failed to provide any responses or
request additional time. (Croutch Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendant is therefore
entitled to an order compelling responses to request for production. 
Here, Defendant served Plaintiff with discovery requests on May 26, 2023,
for Requests for Production Set One. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 3) Plaintiff served
responses on June 19, 2023, but these responses were unverified. (Croutch
Decl., ¶ 4) Despite several meet and confer attempts, no verified
responses were provided by Plaintiff to date. (Croutch Decl., ¶ 6) 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel responses to
the Request for Production Set One and Pre-Trial Supplemental Requests for
Production Set One.
 
V.        SANCTIONS
Sanctions are mandatory against the party, the attorney, or both whose
failure to serve a timely response to the request necessitated the motion to
deem request for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c); see
also Cal. Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) [the court can award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though
no opposition was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed].) 
CCP § 2023.030 authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party
engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to
respond to discovery, evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial
justification are “misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010, subd.
(d)-(f).) 
In this case, Plaintiff failed to provide timely, verified responses to (1)
Request for Admission Set One, (2) Form Interrogatories General Set One, (3)
Form Interrogatories Employment Set One, (4) Pre-Trial Supplemental Form
Interrogatories Set One, (5) Requests for Production Set One, and (6) Pre-Trial
Supplemental Requests for Production Set One. Despite multiple meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff
has neither remedied these deficiencies nor provided any substantial
justification for failing to do so. Defendant has filed these six motions to
compel Plaintiff to serve verified responses and has requested monetary
sanctions of $960 for each motion.
Defendant’s counsel seeks $960 in sanctions for each motion, totaling
$5,760. Defendant requests attorney’s fees as follows: (a) two hours, billed at
$300 per hour, for research and preparation of each motion, amounting to $600;
(b) one hour, billed at $300 per hour, to attend the hearing on the motions;
and (c) a filing fee of $60 for each motion.
However, after reviewing the complexity and nature of the motions, the
Court finds this request excessive. These motions are straightforward, and no
opposition has been filed. The Court concludes that $960 for each of the six
motions is excessive. Accordingly, the Court grants a reduced award as follows:
$60 filing fee for each of the six motions, three hours total for all the
motions at $300 per hour for research and preparation, and one hour to attend
the hearing at $300, as all motions will be heard together on October 30, 2024.
Thus, the total sanctions amount awarded is $1,560, which includes $360
for the six filing fees, $900 for preparation, and $300 for attending the
hearing.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants request for sanctions in
awarding reduced amount of $1,560.
 
VI.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Motion by Defendant to compel (1)
Request for Admission Set One, (2) Form Interrogatories General Set One, (3)
Form Interrogatories Employment Set One, (4) Pre-Trial Supplemental Form
Interrogatories Set One, (5) Requests for Production Set One, and (6) Pre-Trial
Supplemental Requests for Production Set One is GRANTED. 
Motion by Defendant for compelling
monetary sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,560. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
responses and pay sanctions within 20 days.
Defendant is ordered to provide
notice of this order.  Dated: October 30, 2024
                                                                                    
                                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT