 Case Number:  24PSCV02518    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Armen
Sarafian v. Pomona Community Health Center, et al. 
Defendants
Pomona Community Health Center dba Parktree Community Health and Ranjit
Theofile Shenoy, M.D.’s Motion to Stay Proceedings, or in the Alternative,
Extension to File Responsive Pleading 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion. The Court hereby STAYS this
action pending the Department of Health and Human Services’ determination of
Defendants’ application under 42 U.S.C. section 233. At the hearing on this
motion, the Court will set a status conference regarding the status of the
determination from the Department of Health and Human Services. 
              Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a medical malpractice action. On August 5, 2024, plaintiff
Armen Sarafian (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Pomona
Community Health Center dba Parktree Community Health[1] (Hospital), Ranjit Theofile Shenoy, M.D. (Doctor) (collectively, Defendants)
and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for (Defendant) [insert doe
defendants if any], alleging causes of action for medical malpractice and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
On October 16, 2024, Defendants moved to stay this action. On
November 18, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On December 12, 2024,
Defendants replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
A
party can ask the court to stay an action
or proceeding based on the court's
inherent power to stay in the interest of
justice and to promote judicial efficiency. (See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 1;
Code Civ. Proc., § 128; Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593; Smith
v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15; Koch-Ash v. Superior Ct. (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 689, 696; see also Walker v. Superior Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d
257, 266-267.)  
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
            The
Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s first and second objections for improper legal
conclusions. The Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s third objection as to the portion
of the declaration that reads, “Pursuant to procedures laid out in 42 U.S.C. 233, defendants
informed the Department of Health and Human Services of the present action on
September 11, 2024. Defendants are now awaiting a determination as to the scope
and employment and for the United States to confer absolute immunity on
defendant.” The Court SUSTAINS the remainder of Plaintiff’s third objection for
improper legal conclusion. 
DISCUSSION 
Summary of Arguments 
            Defendants seek to stay this action
pending a determination whether Defendants were within the scope of their
employment under 42 U.S.C. section 233 and thereby subject to absolute
immunity. Defendants contend they will be prejudiced if required to proceed
with pretrial matters and trial if it they are ultimately immune from
prosecution. Defendants also contend the Court should stay the proceedings to
prevent prejudice to the United States, who is an indispensable party.
Defendants further contend the Court should stay the proceedings to prevent
waste of resources, and that discovery would be problematic because of the
internal approval requirements by the “Agency Head.” 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends
this motion does not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, i.e.,
motions for reconsideration. Plaintiff then contends Defendants’ claims of
federal immunity are highly speculative and appear to be a deliberate delay
tactic. Plaintiff contends the Attorney General has not appeared in this action
within 15 days and that the Secretary of Health and Human Services still has
not decided Defendants’ September 11, 2024 application, the latter of which is
typically determined within 30 days. Plaintiff contends Defendants’ alleged
application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services is stale, that Defendants
failed to establish federal entity status within the statutory timeframe, and
that Defendants likely do not meet the qualification for Federal Tort Claims
Act coverage. Plaintiff also contends the time for Defendants to file a
petition for removal has expired. 
            In reply, Defendants contend this is
not a motion for reconsideration, so Plaintiff’s arguments in that regard are
irrelevant. Defendants indicate that the Court only denied Defendants’ prior
motion on procedural grounds with respect to service, and that the motion was
denied without prejudice to refiling. Defendants contend their immunity status
must be determined before this matter can proceed and that Defendants would be
unjustly prejudiced if a stay is not granted. Defendants contend a stay is
proper while this matter is reviewed by the United States and that it is not
proper to consider if Defendants have the option to remove this matter to
federal court. 
            Analysis 
            The Court finds that a stay pending
determination of whether Defendants were acting within the scope of their
employment under 42 U.S.C. section 233 would be appropriate. A public health service
entity receiving federal funds may seek a determination regarding whether it is
immune and whether the United States will substitute itself in as a defendant.
(42 U.S.C. § 233, subds. (a), (g)(1), (g)(4), (l)(1).) Federal courts have
exclusive jurisdiction over such cases. (28 U.S.C. § 1346, subd. (b).) Defendants
indicate that they informed the Department of Health and Human Services of this
action and that they are currently awaiting a determination as to the scope of
employment and the issue of immunity. (Rosenberg Decl., ¶ 4, p. 10 of pdf.) Defendants
have also presented evidence showing that they were a federally funded health
center during the period in question and that this matter is being addressed
with the Department of Health and Human Services. (Rosenberg Reply Decl., ¶ 6, Exs.
B-D.) Once the determination is made, the parties can proceed with this matter
in the appropriate forum, whether that is in federal court if immunity applies
or in this Court if it does not. (See 28 U.S.C. § 1346, subd. (b).) The Court also
agrees with Defendants that if they are immune from this lawsuit, it would be
unduly prejudicial to require them to continue to litigate this action. (See Behrens v. Pelletier (1996) 516 U.S. 299, 308.) 
            Defendants correctly contend that they were not
prohibited from refiling this motion. The Court denied the prior version of
this motion without prejudice because Defendants had not properly served the
prior version on Plaintiff. (Order re Tentative Ruling (10/14/24); see In re Marriage of Cohen (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 574, 581
[“without prejudice” generally means no decision on the merits and is treated
as though the matter was never previously brought].) Defendants’ motion is not
a motion for reconsideration, but rather is the same motion previously brought,
only this time Defendants properly served it on Plaintiff. (Motion, pp. 12-13
of pdf.) 
            Moreover, the fact that the Secretary of Health and Human
Services and the Attorney General have not appeared in this action or made a
determination regarding the issue of immunity does not change the result here. While
42 U.S.C. section 233, subdivision (g)(E), provides that the Secretary must
make the immunity determination with 30 days’ receipt of the required application,
it does not state what happens when the Secretary fails to comply with that
deadline. (42 U.S.C. § 233, subd. (g)(E).) It appears that it simply fails to provide
a basis for removal. (See Smith v. Harbison
(M.D. Ga. 2020) 446 F.Supp.3d 1331, 1335.) Also, the Attorney General’s failure
to appear within 15 days simply means Defendants have the option to separately
petition the Court for removal of this action to federal court. (42 U.S.C. § 233,
subd. (l)(2); Smith v. Harbison, supra, 446 F.Supp.3d at pp. 1336-1337.)
In fact, Defendants have no time limit for removal under 42 U.S.C. § 233, subd.
(l)(2). (Id. at p. 1335.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. The Court
hereby STAYS this action pending the Department of Health and Human Services’
determination of Defendants’ application under 42 U.S.C. section 233. At the
hearing on this motion, the Court will set a status conference regarding the
status of the determination from the Department of Health and Human Services. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion. The Court hereby STAYS this
action pending the Department of Health and Human Services’ determination of
Defendants’ application under 42 U.S.C. section 233. At the hearing on this
motion, the Court will set a status conference regarding the status of the
determination from the Department of Health and Human Services. 
              Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.


