  Case Number:  22STCV17199    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jessica ramirez

   ,
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
nissan north america, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV17199




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   6, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and
  stay proceedings
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Nissan North America,
Inc.          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Jessica Ramirez
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant Nissan North America, Inc.’s request for
judicial notice.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subd. (d).) 
The court grants plaintiff Jessica Ramirez’s request for judicial
notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(d).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Nissan North America, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for
an order         (1) compelling plaintiff Jessica Ramirez
(“Plaintiff”) to submit the claims alleged in their Complaint to binding
arbitration, and (2) staying proceedings pending completion of arbitration. 
A
written provision in any contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce
to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist
at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.[1]¿ (9 U.S.C. §
2.)¿ The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) requires courts to direct parties to
proceed to arbitration on issues covered by an arbitration agreement upon a
finding that the making of the arbitration agreement is not in issue.¿ (9
U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207
F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role under the [FAA] is therefore limited to
determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does,
(2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron Corp.,
supra, 207 F.3d at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a ‘liberal federal
policy favoring arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental principle that
arbitration is a matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T Mobility LLC
v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ The burden of
production as to this finding shifts in a three-step process.¿ (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)¿ First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate, which can be met by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opponent’s signature.¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the
moving party meets this burden, the opposing party bears, in the second step,
the burden of producing evidence to challenge its authenticity.¿ (Ibid.)¿
If the opposing party produces evidence sufficient to meet this burden, the
third step requires the moving party to establish, with admissible evidence, a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties.¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿¿ 
First, the
court finds that Defendant has met its burden of producing prima facie evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff, on the one hand, and
Nissan of Bakersfield, on the other hand. 
Defendant
submits the “Retail Installment Sale Contract – Simple Finance Charge (with
Arbitration Provision)” (the “RISC”), entered into by and between Plaintiff, as
the buyer, and Nissan of Bakersfield, as the seller.  (Maugeri Decl., Ex. 4, RISC, p. 1.)  The front side of the RISC includes a field
entitled “Agreement to Arbitrate,” which (1) states that, by signing below, the
signee “agree[s] that, pursuant to the Arbitration Provision on the reverse
side of this contract, [the buyer-signee] or [the seller] may elect to resolve
any dispute by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action[,]” and
(2) purports to bear the signature of Plaintiff.  (Id., p. 2.)  The Arbitration Provision on the reverse side
of the RISC states, in relevant part, that the parties agree to arbitrate
“[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise     . .
. between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract) . . . .”  (Maugeri Decl., Ex.
5, Arbitration Provision.) 
The court
therefore finds that Defendant has produced evidence of a written agreement to
arbitrate between Plaintiff and Nissan of Bakersfield.
Second, the
court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing that it may
enforce the Arbitration Provision against Plaintiff pursuant to the doctrine of
equitable estoppel.
“‘Generally
speaking, one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or
invoke it.’¿ [Citations.]¿ ‘There are exceptions to the general rule that a nonsignatory to an agreement
cannot be compelled to arbitrate and cannot invoke an agreement to arbitrate,
without being a party to the arbitration agreement.’”¿ (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236-1237 [internal citations
omitted].)¿ “One pertinent exception is based on the doctrine of equitable
estoppel.”  (Id. at p. 1237.)  “Under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel, as applied in both federal and California decisional
authority, a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are intimately
founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.”¿ (Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495 (“Felisilda”) [internal
quotations omitted].)¿ For the doctrine of equitable estoppel to apply, “‘the
claims plaintiff asserts against the nonsignatory must be
dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably intertwined with, the underlying
contractual obligations of the agreement containing the arbitration clause.’”¿
(JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 1238.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
The
application of this doctrine as to third party nonsignatories has been
addressed in several recent cases.  In Ford Motor Warranty Cases
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1330, review granted July 19, 2023, S279969, the
Court of Appeal evaluated an arbitration provision that includes language
substantially identical to the language in the Arbitration Provision at issue
here.¿ (Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p.
1330, rev. granted [quoting arbitration provision requiring the arbitration of
“‘[a]ny claim or dispute . . . which arises out
of or relates to . . . [the] purchase or condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who did not sign this contract)’”].)¿ In
finding that the manufacturer-defendant could not compel arbitration based on
equitable estoppel, the Court of Appeal expressly disagreed with and declined
to follow Felisilda, which also addressed language that is similar
to the language in this Arbitration Provision.¿ (Id. at p. 1334; Felisilda,
supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490 [quoting provision requiring the arbitration
of “[a]ny claim or dispute . . . which arises
out of or relates to . . . condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract)”] [emphasis in original].)¿¿¿ 
Similarly,
in Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 961, review
granted September 20, 2023, S281237, the Court of Appeal expressly disagreed
with Felisilda and concluded that the manufacturer-defendant could not
enforce the arbitration provision in the subject sales contract since the
plaintiffs’ claims were “founded on [the manufacturer’s] express warranty for
the vehicle, not any obligation imposed on [the manufacturer] by the sales
contract,” such that the plaintiffs’ claims were “not inextricably intertwined
with any obligations under the sales contract.”¿ Further, in Kielar v.
Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 620-621, review granted October
25, 2023, S281937, another court disagreed with Felisilda’s conclusion that the sales contract was
the source of the warranties at the heart of that case and held that equitable
estoppel did not permit the manufacturer-defendant to compel arbitration of the
plaintiff’s claims for violations of the Song-Beverly Act and fraudulent
inducement.¿ In contrast, the Felisilda Court concluded, based on
substantially identical language, that, since the plaintiffs “expressly agreed
to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the vehicle—even against
third party nonsignatories to the sales contract—they [were]
estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against” the
manufacturer-defendant.¿ (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p.
497.)¿¿ 
The court finds that the reasoning set forth in Ford Motor
Companies is persuasive and elects to follow the analysis set forth in that
opinion, and the subsequent opinions that have adopted its reasoning, rather
than Felisilda. 
As set forth above, the Arbitration Provision provides for the
arbitration of any claim or dispute “between [Plaintiff, as the buyer] and
[Nissan of Bakersfield, as the seller] and [Nissan of Bakersfield’s] employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to[,]” inter
alia, the purchase or condition of the subject vehicle and any resulting
transaction or relationship, including with third parties who did not sign the
RISC.  (Maugeri Dec., Ex. 5, Arbitration
Provision.)  The court finds that this
language shows that Plaintiff and Nissan of Bakersfield agreed to arbitrate any
covered claim or dispute, including those relating to “any resulting
transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties
who do not sign this contract)” between themselves.  (Ibid.; Ford Motor Warranty Cases,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334-1335, rev. granted [the language
extending to resulting transactions or contracts is “a further delineation of
the subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to
arbitrate”] [emphasis in original].)  Defendant
has neither argued nor presented evidence showing that it is an employee,
agent, successor, or assign of Nissan of Bakersfield.  
The court also finds that Plaintiff’s claims are not “intimately
founded in and intertwined with” the underlying RISC obligations.  (Felisilda,
supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 495 [internal quotations omitted].) 

The court notes, as Defendant points out, that Plaintiff has alleged
that Defendant issued, and subsequently breached, its warranty obligations in
connection with the subject motor vehicle, and that Plaintiff is entitled to
replacement, reimbursement, or rescission of the contract under the
Song-Beverly Act and Commercial Code. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 13-14, 19.) 
However, Plaintiff does not allege a breach of the RISC.  Instead, the Complaint alleges that (1)
Defendant failed to comply with Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d)
because it was unable to conform the vehicle to its conformities and thereafter
failed to promptly replace or provide restitution as required by the
Song-Beverly Act; (2) Defendant did not comply with its obligations under Civil
Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b), by failing to commence repairs within a
reasonable time and to conform the vehicle to the applicable warranties; (3)
Defendant willfully violated and did not comply with its obligations under
Civil Code section 1793.2 by failing to make available to its service and
repair facilities sufficient literature to effect repairs during the warranty
period; (4) Defendant failed to comply with its obligations under the implied
warranty of merchantability; and (5) Defendant fraudulently concealed from
Plaintiff that the subject vehicle was defective.  (Compl., ¶¶ 25,  31-32, 36-37, 39-40, 45.)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant do not
rely on the RISC and are not based on any express contractual language therein,
but instead are based on              (1) Defendant’s statutory obligations under
the Song-Beverly Act; (2) Defendant’s alleged breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability; and (3) Defendant’s alleged fraudulent concealment.  (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 495; Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at p. 1335, rev. granted [“plaintiffs’ claims [were] based on [the
manufacturer-defendant’s] statutory obligations to reimburse consumers or
replace their vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its warranty”
or other theories for breach of the implied warranty and fraudulent inducement,
and “[n]ot one of the plaintiffs sued on any express contractual language in
the sale contracts”].) 
Third, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show
that it may enforce the Arbitration Provision as a third-party beneficiary of
the RISC.[2]
“‘A
third party beneficiary may
enforce a contract expressly made for his benefit.’”¿ (Fuentes v. TMCSF,
Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 541, 551.)¿ “‘The third party need not be
identified by name.¿ It is sufficient if the [third party] claimant belongs to
a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.’”¿ (Otay Land Co., LLC v.
U.E. Limited, L.P. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 806, 855.)¿ Thus, “‘a third party beneficiary of an arbitration agreement
may enforce it.’”¿ (Fuentes, supra, 26 Cal.App.5th at p. 552.)¿
To determine whether a party is a third-party beneficiary of a contract, courts
“examine[] the express provisions of the contract at issue, as well as all of
the relevant circumstances under which the contract was agreed to, in order to
determine not only (1) whether the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties
was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting a third
party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties.”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 830.)  
Defendant contends that the intent to benefit it “is evident from the
plain language of the arbitration provision of the” RISC, in that Plaintiff
“agreed to arbitrate any claim related to the Sales Contract, including ‘[a]ny
claim or dispute . . . which arises out of or relates to . . . any resulting
transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties
who do not sign this contract[.]’” 
(Mot., p. 12:8-11 [emphasis omitted].) 
The court disagrees.  As explained
above, the quoted provision relating to third parties “concerns what may
be arbitrated, not who may arbitrate.” 
(Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p.
1338, rev. granted [emphasis in original].) 
Thus, the court finds that this language is insufficient to support a
finding that either (1) a motivating purpose of Plaintiff and Nissan of Bakersfield,
as the contracting parties, was to provide a benefit to Defendant, or (2)
permitting Defendant to enforce the Arbitration Provision against Plaintiff is
consistent with the objectives of the RISC and the reasonable expectations of
Plaintiff and Nissan of Bakersfield.  (Goonewardene,
supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 830.)
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show
that it may enforce the Arbitration Provision against Plaintiff pursuant to the
doctrine of equitable estoppel or as a third-party beneficiary of the RISC.  The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion
to compel arbitration and stay proceedings. 
ORDER
The court denies defendant Nissan North
America, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration.
The court orders plaintiff Jessica Ramirez
to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 6, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


