  Case Number:  23STCV00018    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Arman Solimani’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Cross-Complaint is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Arman Solimani shall file a responsive
pleading within 15 days of entry of this order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Arman Solimani to give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1), provides that
a defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Arman Solimani (“Plaintiff”) moves to
quash service of the summons and cross-complaint upon him on the ground that Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay (“Defendants”)
failed to serve Plaintiff in a code-complaint manner.
 
Plaintiff argues that the caption of the cross-complaint was defective,
but this argument does not go to whether Plaintiff was properly served. Insofar
as Plaintiff takes issue with the service itself, the proof of service filed on
the docket on April 7, 2023, shows that Plaintiff was purportedly served with
Defendants’ cross-complaint by mail to his attorney on April 7, 2023. While
defense counsel represents that the cross-complaint was also served by email on
this date, this is not stated in the proof of service, but it is stated in the
proof of service attached to the cross-complaint filed on April 6, 2023, which
also indicates that Plaintiff was served by mail to his attorney.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 428.60 makes clear that a cross-complaint
can be served by mail upon the attorney for any party who has already appeared
in the action; here, Plaintiff has already appeared in this action. Code of
Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(A), provides that a party
may be served by electronic service where a document may be served by mail. It
follows that service was proper because counsel was properly served by
electronic service even if counsel’s office address changed. While the Court
notes that the proof of service filed on April 7, 2023, indicates that it
should not be used for service of the summons and complaint, it is the proof of
service filed on April 6, 2023, with the cross-complaint which informs the Court’s
ruling herein.
 
Finally, Plaintiff cannot claim there is no personal jurisdiction over
him where he made a general appearance in this action by filing his initial
complaint. (In re Marriage of Obrecht (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 1, 8 [“By generally appearing, a defendant relinquishes all
objections based on lack of personal jurisdiction”].) Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Arman
Solimani’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Cross-Complaint is DENIED.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Arman Solimani shall file a responsive pleading within 15 days of entry of this order.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (b).)
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel has named the assigned judge in
his caption as a “disqualified” judge despite the order dated April 13, 2023,
striking any purported statement of disqualification. Rule 3.3(a)(1) of the
Professional Rules of Conduct provides that “[a] lawyer shall not knowingly
make a false statement of fact or law to a tribunal.” Plaintiff’s counsel is
hereby ordered to discontinue making any misrepresentations in the case caption
that the assigned judge has been disqualified from presiding over this action.