 Case Number:  23STCV14890    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  61 STEWART LUCAS MURREY vs KELLY GIBBONS, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant Kelly Gibbons’ Motion for Relief from Deemed Admissions is DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.Plaintiff to provide notice.DISCUSSIONMOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEEMED ADMISSIONS(a) A party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.(b) The court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.300, subd. (a), (b).)Defendant Kelly Gibbons (Gibbons) seeks relief from this court’s order of September 10, 2024, granting Plaintiff Stewart Lucas Murrey’s motion to deem matters admitted against her, on the grounds that on the date of the hearing, she was experiencing a medical emergency and unable to attend. (Motion at pp. 1–2.)Gibbons has not demonstrated entitlement to relief. Relief from deemed admissions may be had under Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.300 if it is shown that the admissions were obtained by mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect, and the party who obtained the admission will not be prejudiced. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.300, subd. (b).) Here, Defendant offers only an explanation for her failure to appear for the September 10, 2024 hearing, not for her failure to provide responses to Plaintiff’s requests for admission. Defendant does not contend that such responses have been given or propose that they will be. Accordingly, granting the motion would prejudice Plaintiff, leaving him without responses, and what’s more offering no reason why he could not file another motion to deem matters admitted identical to the first.Moreover, Gibbons presents no evidence authenticated by a declaration submitted under oath. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2015.5.) Plaintiff seeks sanctions on the argument that Gibbons brought this motion solely for delay. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.) But the fact that the motion is defective is not grounds for sanctions. There is little reason to believe, as Plaintiff suggests, that Gibbons is fabricating evidence.The motion is therefore DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.