 Case Number:  24STCV02823    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  61 SUNNYSIDE CREMATION AND FUNERAL, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION vs JAY HOON LEE, AN INDIVIDUAL, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff Sunnyside Cremation and Funeral, Inc.’s Motion for Sanctions against Defendants AASP, Inc., Jay Hoon Lee, Jae So Lim, Andy Lim, and Jennyfer Oh is DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.Defendants to give notice.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff Sunnyside Cremation and Funeral, Inc. (Plaintiff) seeks 8,925.00 in monetary sanctions against counsel for Defendants AASP, Inc., Jay Hoon Lee, Jae So Lim, Andy Lim, and Jennyfer Oh (Defendants) based on their filing of a second demurrer following the filing of an earlier demurrer, both of which were overruled. (Motion at pp. 4–6.) Plaintiff contends that the filing of the successive demurrer was improper, as it was a non-compliant motion for reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure § 1008, which expressly permits the imposition of such sanctions for noncompliant requests for reconsideration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. 9d).)No sanctions are appropriate here. Defendants filed their first demurrer in pro per, and in overruling the demurrer the court noted that Defendant AASP could not appear in court as a pro per corporation, and further noted that Defendants relied for their arguments on contentions and evidence outside the pleadings. (See 6/24/2024 Ruling.) Defendants’ present counsel substituted in on July 12, 2024, and the second demurrer was filed on the same day. The evident basis for the filing of the second demurrer was defense counsel’s understanding that his clients had advanced no arguments hearable on demurrer, which was accurate, and that such arguments could better be framed in a successive demurrer to the same causes of action.In overruling the second demurrer, this court removed language from its tentative ruling on October 9, 2024, addressing the impropriety of successive demurrers. (See 10/9/24 Ruling.) But even if successive demurrers are not permitted, this was at most an error of procedural framing, since Defendants could have offered the same arguments in a motion for judgment on the pleadings, which “may be made even when a general demurrer has been previously overruled.” (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.) Thus no sanctions are properly awarded.Defendants in turn seek sanctions against Plaintiff for filing this motion in the amount of $1,400.00. (Oh Decl. ¶ 10.) Sanctions are authorized against one who brings a motion for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7 in order to harass or cause undue delay and cost. (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (h).) There is little reason to conclude that the present motion, though unpersuasive, was brought for such a purpose.The motion is therefore DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.