 Case Number:  22AHCV01089    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      February 6, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: May 21, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         JACKIE CHEN, an
individual, v. SUNNY HOA, an individual, and VAN HOAN WONG, an individual, and
DOES 1 to 100.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01089

 
            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Counsel Jilbert Tahmazian
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 5, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Jilbert Tahmazian (“Tahmazian”),
on behalf of Tahmazian Law Firm, P.C., moves to be relieved as counsel of
record of Defendants Van Wong, Denh Ho, James Wong, Vinnie Wong, and Wayne
Wong. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Jackie
Chen’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that he was physically attacked on August 26, 2020.
Plaintiff filed this complaint on November 15, 2022, alleging three causes of
action for (1) battery, (2) assault, and (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the clients have been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service, Tahmazian’s motion to be relieved as counsel
is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the order
of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice
from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Tahmazian moves to be
relieved as counsel of record of Defendants Van Wong, Denh Ho, James Wong,
Vinnie Wong, and Wayne Wong. Tahmazian makes this motion on the grounds that he
has been advised that Defendants cannot pay for his legal services. Tahmazian
provides he served Defendants at the last known address which was confirmed by
discovery responses. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the clients have been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service, Tahmazian’s motion to be relieved as counsel
is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   February 6,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



