..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23NWCV00065
Plaintiff's Name: Vance Tenort
Defendant's Name: State of California
People-Names: Vance Tenort
Company-Names: None
Places: Beverly Boulevard, Interstate 605, Pico Rivera
Dates: February 2, 2017, February 11, 2022, January 1, 2016, November 7, 2023
Events: Single motor vehicle accident, Premises Liability
Money: None
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories
Facts: Plaintiff was thrown from his motorcycle when it made contact with a drop-off in the roadway, resulting in injury
Disputes: Plaintiff alleges the State failed to provide sufficient responses to Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories
Acts: Plaintiff filed a Complaint against the City of Pico Rivera, the County of Los Angeles, and the State of California; Plaintiff dismissed the City and County
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 2031.310, CCP § 2030.300(a), CCP § 2031.240(c)(1)
Case Citations: None
Statutes: CCP § 2031.310, CCP § 2030.300(a), CCP § 2031.240(c)(1), CCP § 2033.290(d)
Roles: Plaintiff (Vance Tenort), Defendant (State of California)
Significant Statements:
* The State must provide a further response to Plaintiff's Requests for Production within 20 days of this Order.
* Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Further Responses to His Requests for Production is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
* Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Further Responses to his Form Interrogatories is DENIED.
* Plaintiff's request for sanctions is DENIED.
* The State's request for sanctions is DENIED.
```

And here is the English text to summarize the judge's tentative ruling:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on the motions filed by the plaintiff, Vance Tenort, and the defendant, the State of California. The plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to his Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories. The court grants the plaintiff's motion in part, ordering the State to provide a further response to the Requests for Production, but denies the motion in part. The court also denies the plaintiff's motion to compel further responses to his Form Interrogatories.

The court finds that the State's responses to the Requests for Production were inadequate, but the State's responses to the Form Interrogatories were sufficient. The court also finds that the State's assertion of privilege was justified and does not require a privilege log at this time.

The court denies the plaintiff's request for sanctions against the State, finding that the State acted with substantial justification in opposing the plaintiff's motions. The court also denies the State's request for sanctions against the plaintiff, finding that the plaintiff's motions were made with substantial justification.

The ruling is subject to change based on further briefing and oral argument.
