 Case Number:  22STCV23004    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  C mcclenon, et al v.
city of cerritos, et al.
CASE NO.:  22STCV23004
HEARING:   2/14/24 @ 9:30 AM
#4
 
The City’s Protective Order is GRANTED and
Plaintiffs are prohibited from deposing Councilmembers Bruce Barrows, Naresh
Solanki, and Choung Vo.  
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant City of Cerritos (City) moves for a
protective order prohibiting Plaintiffs Jerry McClenon, Kelly McClenon, and
Dawn Kasarda (collectively Plaintiffs) from deposing Councilmembers Bruce Barrows, Naresh Solanki, and Choung
Vo.
Background
This
is a trip and fall case. The operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleges:
“Plaintiffs are informed and believe and, based on such information and belief,
alleges that on or about September 26, 2021, the City of Cerritos maintained
the sidewalk located between 13745 and 13751 Beach Street Cerritos, CA 90703. Plaintiffs
allege Defendant Brightview Tree Care Services Inc., performed tree trimming
and related arborist maintenance at or near incident location on March 5, 2021.
FAC asserts causes of action for: 
1.
Dangerous Condition of Public Property (v. City of Cerritos) 
2.
Negligence (v. Brightview Tree Case Services) 
3.
Premises Liability (v. Brightview Tree Case Services) 
4.
Wrongful Death (v. all Defendants)
Legal
Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery ... by taking in California the oral deposition of
any person, including any party to the action. 
The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a
public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental
agency.” (CCP § 2025.010.) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450(a).)   
Discussion

Plaintiffs seek to depose Mayor Barrows, Mayor
Pro Tem Naresh Solanki, and Councilmember Choung Vo (collectively “the
Councilmembers”) because Plaintiffs contend the Councilmembers may have
evidence regarding notice of a series of uplifts on the sidewalk near the
location of the incident. The City argues that the Councilmembers are protected
as apex officers under the “Apex Doctrine” and the Court should issue a
protective order preventing Plaintiff from deposing the Councilmembers.
In Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, the plaintiff sought to depose the defendant
insurance company’s president and chief executive officer, Gary Countryman, as
part of her initial discovery demands. There, plaintiff asserted that
Countryman was “directly implicated” in the matter by virtue of Plaintiff’s
counsel having copied Countryman on two complaint letters. Countryman asserted
he had no knowledge of the plaintiff’s claim, and the letters “would have been
automatically rerouted to a lower level employee,” thus, Countryman never saw
the letters. The court noted that allowing a party to depose a corporate
officer at the “apex” of the corporate hierarchy before less intrusive
discovery has been conducted raises a “tremendous potential for discovery abuse
and harassment.” (Id. at 1287.) 
The City’s protective order is granted because
Plaintiffs have failed to show that they have exhausted less intrusive
discovery and that the Councilmembers have personal knowledge. “[I]t amounts to
an abuse of discretion to withhold a protective order when a plaintiff seeks to
depose a corporate president, or corporate officer at the apex of a corporate
hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication of the officer’s personal knowledge
of the case and absent exhaustion of less intrusive discovery methods.” (Liberty
Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1287.) First, Plaintiffs have failed to
exhaust less intrusive methods because they have not deposed Dario Simoes, the
Director of Public Works/City Engineer, who verified the City’s written
discovery responses, or Bino Holguin, who conducted the survey of the tree
trimming by Brightview Tree Care. Further, it is not apparent that Plaintiffs
have noticed the Person Most Knowledgeable regarding their alleged notice of
the condition of the specific sidewalk at issue. 
Second, Plaintiffs have failed to overcome the
Councilmembers’ declaration submitted in support of the motion which states
that the Councilmembers have no “direct personal knowledge or factual
information pertaining to any issues, material or otherwise, in this action.” (Decls.
Of Barrows, Vo, and Solanki, ¶ 2.) The City’s protective order preventing
Plaintiffs from deposing the Councilmembers is granted because Plaintiffs have
failed to exhaust less intrusive methods and failed to establish that the
Councilmembers have personal knowledge.
 
Accordingly, the
City’s Protective Order is GRANTED and Plaintiffs are prohibited from deposing
Councilmembers Bruce Barrows, Naresh Solanki, and Choung Vo.  