 Case Number:  23NWCV00065    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  C tenort v. city of
pico rivera
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00065
HEARING:   2/14/24 @ 10:30 AM
#7
 
1.   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to His Requests For
Production is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
2.   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to his Form
Interrogatories is DENIED. 
3.   
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
4.   
The State’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Vance Tenort (Plaintiff) seeks to compel
further responses to his Requests for Production (set one) and Form
Interrogatories (set one). Plaintiff and Defendant State of California (the
State) seek sanctions.
Background
This
is a single motor vehicle accident which occurred when Plaintiff drove his
motorcycle on Beverly Boulevard to enter the on-ramp of Interstate 605.
Plaintiff alleges he was thrown from his motorcycle when it made contact with a
drop-off in the roadway. Plaintiff was injured as a result. Plaintiff filed a
Complaint against the City of Pico Rivera, the County of Los Angles, and the
State of California for Premises Liability. Plaintiff dismissed the City and
County.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: 
(1)
An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. 
(2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.
(3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.
(CCP
§ 2030.300(a).)
 
Discussion

Plaintiff seeks to compel to compel further
responses to Requests for Production Nos. 31 and 32 and Form Interrogatories
Nos. 12.3, 12.5, 12.7, 13.1,
Request for Production
Privilege
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to
Requests Nos. 31 and 32 on the grounds that the State did not provide a
privilege log or sufficiently identify the documents it withheld on the basis
of privilege.  The State asserts in
opposition that the only documents withheld on the basis of privilege are
communications between counsel and client.
“If an objection is based on a claim of
privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the
response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to
evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”
(CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)  
The State is ordered to provide a supplemental
response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production and include the basis for its
assertion of privilege, however, no privilege log is necessary at this point. 
Form of Production
Plaintiff seeks to compel the State to produce
the IMMS Work Order list with the inspections and maintenance on the roadway. 
The State is not ordered to produce a separate
list containing only certain work orders. The requests seek documents which
relate to maintenance of the roadway of Beverly Boulevard and the on-ramp of
Interstate 605 near Bevely Boulevard from 2017 to 2023. Plaintiff complains
that the State over included work orders and “forces Plaintiff to search for a
handful of inspections amongst between [800 and 6,000].” However, based on the
Court’s review of the production, it appears that each work order is responsive
to the requested category. Productions 1 (Ex. G), 2 (Ex. H), and 3 (Ex. I) are
all limited to Interstate 605 from mile 14.234 to 14.407. (Shiener Decl., Exs.
G, H, I.) Productions 1 and 2 are for the dates February 2, 2017 to February
11, 2022 and Production 3 is for the dates January 1, 2016 to November 7, 2023.
The only difference between Productions 1 and 2 are the included columns with
Production 2 including “Item IDs,” Item Description,” and “Total Usage.” Thus,
the Court is not convinced that the State is manipulating the Productions to
overburden Plaintiff with document not responsive to their requests. These
documents all appear to be within the category sought by the Requests.
Therefore, the State is not ordered to tailor its production to a more
restrictive category than was requested.
Documents After the
Incident

Plaintiff’s request to compel production of
documents is moot because the State has produced documents after the date of
the incident in Production 3.
Interrogatories
The State is not ordered to provide a further
response to No. 12.3. The State responded that no written or recorded statement
was obtained by the State. Should the State attempt to introduce such evidence
at trial, Plaintiff may move to exclude the evidence or testimony.
The State is not ordered to provide a further
response to No. 12.5. The State provided the traffic collision report related
to the incident instead of taking the responsive information from the traffic
collision report such that Plaintiff could identify the report.
The State is not ordered to provide a further
response to No. 12.7. The State has provided a list of persons who have
inspected the scene in their production of the IMMS Work Orders. Plaintiff has
sufficient information to determine which individuals have information he
believes is helpful to his claims.
The State is not ordered to provide a further
response to No. 13.1. The State responded that no surveillance was obtained by
the State. Should the State attempt to introduce such evidence at trial,
Plaintiff may move to exclude  the evidence
or testimony.
The State is not ordered to provide a further
response to No. 20.6. The State was not present at the incident and does not
have personal knowledge. The Court is unconvinced that compelling a further
response would yield any additional information.
Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories or demand for production of documents
unless the party subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h),
2033.290(d).) 
Defendant acted with substantial justification
in opposing Plaintiff’s Motions. Thus, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
denied.
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Requests for Production was justified as he prevailed in part. Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories was made with
substantial justification. However, a similar motion made in this case would be
without justification.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to His Requests for Production is GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part. The State must provide a further response within 20
days of this Order. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to his Form
Interrogatories is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED. The
State’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 