  Case Number:  18SMCV00470    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff BMB Commercial Corp.’s Motion for Protective Order Under CCP §§ 2030.090 and 2031.060 is GRANTED.Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,750.00, payable by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Applied Soil Technology, Inc. dba Applied Earth Sciences and defense counsel to Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp. and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp. to give notice. REASONINGCode of Civil Procedure section 2030.090, subdivision (b), and section 2031.060, subdivision (b), provide that “[t]he court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” As to interrogatories, a protective order may include direction “[t]hat, contrary to the representations made in a declaration submitted under Section 2030.050, the number of specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted,” such that the interrogatories need not be answered. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (b)(1),(2).) As to requests for production of documents, a protective order may include direction “[t]hat all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand need not be produced or made available at all.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b)(1).)Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp. (“Plaintiff”) moves for a protective order directing that Plaintiff need not respond to the special interrogatories or requests for production of documents propounded on it by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Applied Soil Technology, Inc. dba Applied Earth Sciences (“Defendant”) after Defendant propounded 58 special interrogatories and 22 requests for production of documents. Plaintiff contends that the declaration for additional discovery does not establish that the number of interrogatories was warranted because of the complexity of the case, and many of the interrogatories seek information addressed in other discovery. As to the requests for production of documents, Plaintiff argues that the requests are duplicative, as they seek documents that were produced in support of responses to prior interrogatories and requests for production of documents. Defendant has not agreed to reduce the number of interrogatories or withdraw the discovery requests despite meet-and-confer efforts.Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.030, subdivision (b), limits the number of special interrogatories that can be propounded, as a matter of right to 35 interrogatories. A propounding party who wishes to propound more than 35 special interrogatories must serve a declaration of necessity pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.040, subdivision (a), on the ground that the complexity or the quantity of issues in the case warrants additional interrogatories, the financial burden of conducting discovery by oral deposition is excessive, or the higher number will assist the responding party in conducting an investigation or search of files to supply the information sought.Under Code of Civil Procedure, subdivision (b), “[i]f the responding party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories.” Defendant argues that the special interrogatories are directed to Plaintiff’s new theory of liability, but Defendant does not set forth the new information it seeks which has not been obtained through prior discovery, and this is not evident in reviewing the special interrogatories. Whether Plaintiff has a new theory of liability is not alone a sufficient basis for excessive discovery. As to the requests for production, Defendant argues there is no limitation on the number of requests it may propound, and it points to Plaintiff’s concession that it has not yet produced three documents, but this, too, does not justify the requests when the documents appear to have been previously produced, and Defendant does not make any specific argument as to why this additional discovery is necessary. In short, the Court cannot conclude that it was necessary to propound more than 35 special interrogatories or to propound an additional set of requests for production of documents. Accordingly, Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp.’s Motion for Protective Order Under CCP §§ 2030.090 and 2031.060 is GRANTED.Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090, subdivision (d), provides that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Plaintiff moves for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,450.00 against Defendant and its counsel of record. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are warranted here, as Defendant made no meaningful attempt at describing the basis for additional discovery. However, the Court reduces the award to $1,750.00, which represents three hours spent preparing the motion, one hour spent preparing the reply, and one hour appearing at the hearing, for a total of five hours at the rate of $350.00. Thus, Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,750.00, payable by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Applied Soil Technology, Inc. dba Applied Earth Sciences and defense counsel to Plaintiff BMB Commercial Corp. and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.