  Case Number:  21STCV31060    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



FILIMON GARCIA RAMIREZ 
  
        
  vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA
  MOTOR CO., INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  21STCV31060
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 17, 2025



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
 
On 8/23/2021,
Plaintiff Filimon Garcia Ramirez (Plaintiff) filed suit against American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant) alleging: (1) breach of express warranty; (2)
breach of implied warranty; (3) breach of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2; and
(4) fraudulent inducement-concealment. 
 
            On
11/1/2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to file a first amended complaint (FAC). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend to remove paragraphs 17-48, and will amend paragraphs
49-92 of Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
            Plaintiff
contends that Plaintiff’s original Complaint pertained to a defect in a
transmission type not installed in the subject vehicle. As such, Plaintiff’s
amendment would remove allegations related to the incorrect transmission type,
and would add allegations directed to the defect in the model of transmission
with which Plaintiff’s vehicle is actually equipped.
 
The
policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion
to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice.
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
 
Here, trial
is set 3/17/2025. While Plaintiff contends that Defendant has not yet conducted
Plaintiff’s deposition nor a vehicle inspection, Defendant’s opposition
indicates that Plaintiff’s deposition was completed on 10/11/2024. Deposition
testimony was submitted corroborating this. (Motion, Exh. A.) Moreover,
Plaintiff has served discovery defining the transmission defect as a 6-Speed
Transmission Defect, to which Defendant already responded. Finally, Defendant
already filed its motion for summary adjudication on 11/24/2024. 
 
As such, the
Court agrees with Defendant that meaningful prejudice will result if leave were
granted. This action was filed in August 2021. Now, in January 2025, Plaintiff
is seeking for the first time to amend the compel to name the correct defect,
having already conducted discovery on the improperly alleged defect. 
 
More
importantly, Plaintiff’s motion does not comply with California Rules of Court
3.1324. 
 
California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(b) provides that a separate declaration that must
accompany a motion for leave to amend must specify: (1) The effect of the
amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended pleadings were discovered; (4) The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
Here, Timothy
Lupinek’s declaration does not offer any explanation of when the facts giving
rise to the proposed first amended complaint were discovered nor is there any
articulation of the reasons why the request for the amendment was not made
earlier. Rather, Mr. Lupinek broadly states:
 
At the time
that Plaintiff’s initial complaint was filed, Plaintiff had reason to believe
that problems with the transmission were caused by the torque converter lock up
clutch, which existed as part of AHM’s 6-speed transmission. However,
throughout the course of litigation, it has recently come to light that the
Subject Vehicle is equipped with a 9-speed transmission. Specifically, when
Plaintiff’s counsel conducted a vin search, they became aware that the Subject
Vehicle was equipped with a 9-speed transmission. 
 
            (Lupinek
Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
            Mr.
Lupinek offers no details as to when it conducted this VIN search. As such, the
Court has no basis for determining whether or not Plaintiff unreasonably
delayed in seeking leave to amend. There is reason to believe that he did. For
example, Defendant submitted deposition testimony of Plaintiff and Honda of
Hollywood which indicates that on 2/15/2022, Honda of Hollywood provided
Plaintiff with a repair order clearly indicating the type of transmission
equipped in the subject vehicle is a 9-Speed Transmission. This would suggest
the Plaintiff knew since at least February 15, 2022 that the Subject Vehicle
was equipped with a 9-Speed transmission, not a 6-speed. If this is the case,
Plaintiff waited over two years before seeking leave to amend. The uncertainty
around these facts runs afoul of CRC Rule 3.1324(b).
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is denied, without
prejudice.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                               
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 