 Case Number:  22STCV07037    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 25, 2022, Plaintiff Randolph Requena
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Armando Henrry Norio
Villalovos (“Villalovos”), Kameron Segal (“Segal”), Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc. dba Athens Services (“Arakelian”), and Does 1-50 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
July 28, 2023, Arakelian filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Segal and Roes 1-25 for indemnification, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief. 
On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash subpoenas issued by
Arakelian to be heard on February 6, 2024.  On January 24, 2024, Arakelian filed an
opposition. On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for August 20, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash Arakelian’s subpoenas for records served on Amica Mutual Insurance Company, Geico General Insurance
Company, Gallagher Bassett Services, Inc., and Progressive Group of Insurance
Companies. 
Arakelian
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g),
provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production.
The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate
the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records. 
* * *
  “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought
by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action is
pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . .
.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on April 22, 2020, at the intersection of Sunset Boulevard
and North Alta Vista Boulevard in Los Angeles, Villalovos, an employee of Segal
and Arakelian, negligently operated a motor vehicle in the course of his
employment, causing a collision with Plaintiff’s vehicle and injuring Plaintiff.  Segal and Arakelian allegedly owned the motor
vehicle Villalovos was driving and negligently entrusted it to him. 
B.   Subpoenas 
On
October 30, 2023, Arakelian served subpoenas on Amica Mutual Insurance Company,
Geico General Insurance Company, Gallagher Bassett Services, Inc.,
and Progressive Group of Insurance Companies.  The subpoenas request: 
“Complete claim file from first point of contact to
present (WHETHER TYPED, HANDWRITTEN OR COMPUTER-GENERATED) including but not
limited to all HCFA-1500 forms on all claims, all EOB’s for the patient, all
insurance ‘payment printouts’ or ‘summaries’ for the patient, any records
reflecting benefits applied for and received; any records reflecting benefits
applied for and denied; any records reflecting payments made; any claims
history records; any medical records; any disability records; any photographs;
any type of report and/or office notes; any type of correspondence and every
such record, including those existing in electronic or magnetic form, in the
possession, custody or control of the said witness, and every such record to
which the witness may have access. 
          “The date range of records needed is Any
and all records.” 
C.   Plaintiff’s motion to quash 
Plaintiff
argues the subpoenas are overbroad in time and scope because they seek
discovery of unrelated medical conditions and anatomical regions and therefore violate
Plaintiff's privacy rights.  Plaintiff
asserts that he alleges injuries only to his neck, right shoulder, lower back,
and left hip, but the subpoenas are not limited to these areas or limited in
time. 
Plaintiff
relies on Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008 (Davis),
in which the defendant issued a subpoena requesting all documents concerning
the plaintiff’s substance abuse treatment at a women’s center.  In support of her motion to quash the
deposition, the plaintiff provided a declaration stating that she was making “no
claim for damages for ‘mental and emotional distress’ apart from her claim for
damages for pain and suffering associated with the injuries sustained in the
subject automobile accident” and that the women’s center had “provided no treatment to plaintiff in connection with
the injuries for which she seeks compensation in this personal injury action.”  (Id. at p. 1015.)  “By so stating,
[the plaintiff] . . . thus limited her claim for emotional distress to pain and
suffering associated with the injuries she sustained to her left wrist, upper
arm, shoulder, neck, back and right knee.” 
(Ibid.) 
The
Court of Appeal concluded that the trial court’s order requiring disclosure violated
the plaintiff’s privacy rights.  (Davis,
supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.) 
The Court reasoned: 
“By limiting her claim for emotional distress to pain
and suffering associated with stated physical injuries, and by explaining that
the center provided no treatment in connection with the injuries for which
compensation was sought, [the plaintiff] established that it is not reasonably
probable that the records are directly relevant to the condition she placed in
issue. [Citation.] 
“[The defendant] has not countered with any showing of
direct relevance; rather, [the defendant] only speculates that in the records
requested there could be material which might be relevant to various issues in
the action, such as the nature and extent of emotional distress suffered,
causation of the accident and [the plaintiff’s] condition at the time of the
accident. Mere speculation as to the possibility that some portion of the
records might be relevant to some substantive issue does not suffice. [Citations.]
We are mindful of the scope of the materials requested. [The defendant] seeks any
and all medical or hospital records relating to the care and treatment of [the plaintiff]
to date; [the defendant] has made no attempt to limit the request to specific
matters directly relevant to [the plaintiff’s] pain and suffering from the physical
injuries. [The plaintiff] has established that the records do not concern treatment
for the injuries for which she claims damages. The request is thus overbroad
because it necessarily encompasses privileged material which is not relevant to
the lawsuit.”  (Davis, supra,
7 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1017-1018.) 
Because
the plaintiff had “clearly limited her claim to pain and suffering associated
with the injuries to her body,” “[n]othing prevent[ed] [the defendant] from
seeking records directly relevant to such claim by a narrowly drawn discovery
request.”  (Davis, supra, 7
Cal.App.4th at p. 1018.) 
Arakelian
argues that it “seeks the subpoenaed records to demonstrate the fact that
Plaintiff has been in multiple accidents near in time of the subject accident
and the effects on his health due to the other accidents.”  (Opposition pp. 3-4.)  These records “may impact issues of liability
and damages for which Plaintiff is seeking significant damages.”  (Opposition p. 4.)  For example, Arakelian asserts, “evidence of
prior accidents and injures is admissible to show that the Plaintiff's alleged
injuries were actually caused by some other origin than the subject accident
being litigated.”  (Opposition p. 4.)  The subpoenaed records “are also impeachment
evidence of intervening causes for Plaintiff's alleged injuries and damages.”  (Opposition p. 4.)  According to Arakelian, Plaintiff has waived
his privacy rights by placing his medical condition at issue.  (Opposition p. 4.) 
Arakelian’s
speculation that some portion of the records might be relevant to some substantive
issue “does not suffice.”  (Davis, supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1017.)  In addition, Plaintiff has
not waived his privacy rights: 
“An implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit. [Citation.] There must be a
compelling and opposing state interest justifying the discovery. [Citation.]
Even when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the
issues of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must
then be a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against
the fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must
be narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by
the least intrusive manner. [Citation.] 
(Davis, supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1014.) 
 Under this analysis, Plaintiff has not waived
his privacy rights and the subpoenas are overbroad.  The Court grants the motion and quashes the
subpoenas. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Randolph Requena’s motion to quash the subpoenas served by
Defendant Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. dba
Athens Services on Amica Mutual Insurance Company, Geico General Insurance
Company, Gallagher Bassett Services, Inc., and Progressive Group of Insurance
Companies. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.