 Case Number:  21STCV16829    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition papers, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 4, 2021, Plaintiff Alvin Jay Cawilan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Alethea Espino (“Espino”), Pierce Brooks (“Brooks”), and
Does 1-100 for intentional infliction of emotional distress, assault and
battery, general negligence, and premises liability. 
On
November 29, 2021, Espino and Brooks (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a demand for a jury trial.  The same day, Defendants filed an objection
to Plaintiff’s jury trial demand. 
On
November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for relief from jury trial waiver
to be heard on February 6, 2024.  On
February 2, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.  (The Court exercises its discretion to
consider the late-filed opposition.)  On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 20, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to grant relief from his waiver of jury trial. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 631 provides in part: 
“(a) The right to a trial by jury as declared by
Section 16 of Article I of the California Constitution shall be preserved to
the parties inviolate. In civil cases, a jury may only be waived pursuant to
subdivision (f). 
* * *
“(f) A party waives trial by jury in any of the
following ways: 
* * *
  “(4) By failing to announce that a jury is required,
at the time the cause is first set for trial, if it is set upon notice or
stipulation, or within five days after notice of setting if it is set without
notice or stipulation. 
“(5) By failing to timely pay the fee described in
subdivision (b), unless another party on the same side of the case has paid
that fee. 
* * *
  “(g) The court may, in its discretion upon just terms,
allow a trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 631, subds.
(a), (f)(4) & (5), (g).) 
“ ‘The
right to a jury trial is a basic and fundamental part of our system of
jurisprudence . . . In case of doubt, therefore, the issue should be resolved
in favor of preserving a litigant’s right to trial by jury.’”  (R. Fairbank et al., Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Trials and Evidence (Rutter 2022) ¶2:311, p. 2-68 (Cal. Practice Guide),
quoting Byram v. Superior Court (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 648, 652; see
Grafton Partners v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 958 [“any ambiguity or doubt
concerning the waiver provisions of section 631 must be ‘resolved in favor of
according to a litigant a jury trial’ ”].) 
“While
the matter is discretionary, ‘it is well settled that, in light of the public
policy favoring trial by jury, a motion to be relieved of a jury waiver should
be granted unless, and except, where granting such a motion would work serious
hardship to the objecting party.’ ” 
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 2:317, pp. 2-69 to 2-70, quoting
Boal v. Price Waterhouse & Co. (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 806, 809.)  “Stated differently, ‘The Court abuses its
discretion in denying relief where there has been no prejudice to the other
party or to the court from an inadvertent waiver.’ ”  (Id. at p. 2-70, quoting Gann v.
William Bros. Realty, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1698, 1704.) 
“The
prejudice which must be shown to justify [denial of relief from jury trial waiver]
is prejudice from granting relief from the waiver, as opposed to prejudice from
a jury trial.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 2:320, p. 2-70.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff’s
counsel was assigned to handle this case “in or about May, 2023.” (Salute Dec. ¶
3.)  On November 15, 2023, “it came to [counsel’s]
attention that jury fees had not been posted.” (Salute Dec. ¶ 6.)  Counsel
arranged to have his office post jury fees the same day. 
On
November 20, 2023, after speaking with Defendants’ counsel, Plaintiff’s counsel
“realized that a Demand for Jury Trial had not been filed by the Plaintiff.” (Salute Dec. ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel arranged to file a demand the same day. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel states: 
“The failure to timely demand a jury trial and post
jury fees was due to mistake, inadvertence, and/or neglect by individuals in my
office. While I was not counsel for plaintiff at the time that the matter was
filed, I am aware of the office procedures and processes.  There is an office policy that a demand for
jury trial is supposed to be filed and jury fees are supposed to be posted
within one year from the date that the matter is filed. As stated above, I do
not know why this policy was not followed other than mistake, inadvertence,
and/or neglect.”  (Salute Dec. ¶ 10.) 
Defendants
assert that they “fully relied upon this case being a bench trial.”  (Opposition p. 2.)   They argue: 
“At the time Defendants received the Complaint and
filed their Answer, Defendants seriously assessed the option of making the
demand for jury or to proceed with a bench trial. Defendants opted for a bench
trial. When Plaintiff made his demand for jury trial, that left Defendants and
undersigned counsel only 84 days to prepare for a jury trial. Without a final
determination on who would be the trier of fact, Defendants were left in limbo
whether to process the case as a jury or bench trial. Moreover, Defendants’
decisions to grant a stipulation request and overall strategy had always been
tied to the fact this was supposed to be a bench trial.”  (Opposition p. 3.) 
 In addition, Defendants argue that (1) Plaintiff
has provided inadequate information about the failure to demand a jury trial or
post jury fees and (2) Plaintiff delayed in correcting the mistake. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff's jury trial waiver was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or neglect.  Defendants
have failed to show they will suffer prejudice from an order granting Plaintiff’s
motion for relief from the waiver.  The Court grants the
motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Alvin Jay Cawilan’s motion for relief from waiver of
jury trial. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.