  Case Number:  23CHCV01382    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01382    Demurrer Filed: 7/6/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Diana  Glasgow; Cole Robert Sliwoski; and Amy Marie Sliwoski (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Christopher Eric Reichel, in pro per (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Plaintiffs  demur to Defendant’s entire cross-complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is: a.        Overruled as to Defendant’s second cause of  action; b.       Sustained as to Defendant’s fifth, seventh, and  eighth causes of action without leave to amend; and c.        Sustained as to Defendant’s first, third,  fourth, and sixth causes of action with 30 days leave to amend.   Plaintiffs are reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended  General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly  bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Furthermore, “each  page must be numbered consecutively at the bottom unless a rule provides  otherwise for a particular type of document.” (CRC 2.109.)   Failure to comply with these requirements in the future may  result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar, matters  being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with these  requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of  sanctions. // // // // BACKGROUND    This is a  property dispute in which Plaintiffs, a mother and her two children, allege  that plaintiff Diana Glasgow, and Defendant, her close friend, agreed to move into  a home located at 22579 Seaver Court, Santa Clarita, California 91350 “with a  mutual understanding that both parties would contribute towards the mortgage  and maintenance of the premises.” (Compl. ¶¶ 10–11.) Plaintiffs further allege  that Defendant continually harassed Glasgow, and on 7/18/22, Defendant served  Glasgow with a three-day notice to pay rent or quit, alleging a nonpayment of  rent, although no landlord-tenant relationship existed between the parties. (Id.  at ¶ 19.) Defendant allegedly continued to accept mortgage payments before  filing an unlawful detainer action against Glasgow on 8/2/22. (Id. at ¶  20.) Plaintiffs further allege that several rooms on the premises were not in  compliance with building codes, thereby causing Plaintiffs harm. (Id. at  ¶¶ 25–27.) On 3/8/23, Plaintiffs vacated the property. (Id. at ¶ 21.)   On 5/10/23,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging against Defendant the following  causes of action: (1) Breach of Oral Agreement; (2) Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress; (3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation (Fraud);  (5) Accounting; (6) Conversion; (7) Declaratory Relief; (8) Americans with  Disabilities; (9) California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act; (10) California’s  Disabled Persons Act; (11) Constructive Trust; and (12) Quiet Title.   On 6/29/23,  Defendant filed a general denial and a cross-complaint[1] against  Plaintiffs, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Breach of Oral Agreement; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3)  Negligence; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation (Fraud); (5) Accounting; (6)  Conversion; (7) Declaratory Relief; and (8) Constructive Trust. On his form  cross-complaint, Defendant also indicated that he is alleging causes of action  for Indemnification and Apportionment of Fault.   On 7/6/23, Plaintiffs  filed the instant demurrer against Defendant’s cross-complaint. On 9/29/23, Defendant  filed his opposition.[2] On  10/9/23, Plaintiffs filed their reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated  grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿However, a “court cannot by means of judicial notice  convert a demurrer into an incomplete evidentiary hearing in which the  demurring party can present documentary evidence and the opposing party is  bound by what that evidence appears to show.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.  Fremont General Corp., 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 114–115.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Plaintiffs  demur to Defendant’s entire cross-complaint, arguing that Defendant fails to  state facts sufficient to constitute any of the causes of action therein.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that she called Defendant  twice and sent him two emails to meet and confer regarding the issues raised in  the instant demurrer. (Decl. of Sogol Gohari ¶¶ 3–7.) Counsel states that  Defendant responded to her email on 6/28/23.[3]  (Id. at ¶ 8.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Breach  of Oral Agreement   Defendant’s  first cause of action against Plaintiffs alleges Breach of Oral Agreement. To  state this cause of action, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the  existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the  plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,  821.) “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it  is rarely possible to allege the exact words.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   Here,  Defendant alleges that he and Glasgow entered into an oral agreement on  3/30/21, and that “the oral agreement was that each party was to abide by the  terms of the agreement.” (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶ 37.) Defendant further  alleges that he fully performed under the alleged agreement, and that Glasgow  breached the agreement by failing to pay Defendant rent and paint the house. (Id.  at ¶¶ 38–40.) Defendant alleges that “due to [Cross-]Defendant’s nonperformance  and failure to comply with terms of the contract, Cross Plaintiff Christopher  suffered a loss of time and money, while incurring overwhelming stress leading  to poor results on an annual physical, prescription of anti-depressants, loss  of promotional work and attorney fees and costs for both the unlawful detainer  case (22CHUD00775) & current civil case.” (Id. at ¶ 41.)   Plaintiffs  argue on demurrer that “there is no support for [Defendant’s] claim that the  Cross-Defendant’s [sic] breached the agreement nor what damages Cross-Plaintiff  has suffered.” (Dem. 9:22–23.)[4]  Plaintiffs go on to argue that Defendant has no supporting documentation to  support his allegations, and that he has misrepresented the facts of the case.  (Id. at 10:1–5.) Plaintiffs then dispute the facts alleged by adding  their own factual allegations. (Id. at 10:5–23.)   As  Defendant argues, to the extent that Plaintiffs intend to argue the merits of  the case by way of their demurrer, this tactic is improper at the demurrer  stage. (Def.’s Reply 8:24–25.) “Cross Defendant has turned a blind eye to the  very basic laws of demurrer, e.g., alleged defects must be appearing on the  face of the complaint and extrinsic evidence must not be used to attack the  complaint, unless extrinsic evidence qualifies for a judicial notice.” (Id. at  4:3–6.) The Court agrees, and reiterates that in a demurrer proceeding, the  Court is to assume the truth of properly pleaded factual allegations. (E-Fab, Inc., 153  Cal.App.4th at 1315.)   Turning to  the facts as alleged in the cross-complaint, Defendant asserts that he has  alleged “that: ‘Cross Plaintiff agreed to provide housing, lodging, travel,  cash loan and incurred other expenses on the request and behalf of Cross  Defendant based on Cross Defendant's promise to pay Cross Plaintiff upon Cross  Defendant getting employed and paint interior of home prior to finding  employment.’” (Id. at 6:21–24.) However, the Court notes that this allegation  is not found within the cross-complaint, nor does Defendant cite to any  provision of the cross-complaint where this allegation is made.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not sufficiently alleged the  general effect or terms of the alleged oral agreement, and therefore has not  alleged facts sufficient to support a cause of action for Breach of Oral  Contract. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to Defendant’s first cause  of action.   C.    Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress   Defendant’s  second cause of action alleges against Plaintiffs Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional  infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering  severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of  the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be  outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated  in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,  1009.) A mere allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress,  without facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred because  of the defendant's alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a cause of action  for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v. City of Oakland  (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)   Here,  Defendant alleges that Glasgow engaged in the following extreme and outrageous  conduct: “misled the cross plaintiff as to her intention to care for herself  and the premises, calling cross complainant names, moving and/or turning off,  stealing battery from home security system, attempting to go through cross  plaintiff personal and business materials at cross complainant desk. Yelling at  cross plaintiff for entering his kitchen for a glass of water, harassing his  hired help.” (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶ 46.) Defendant further alleges that  Plaintiffs were “fully aware of the above issues, [yet] they disregarded and  failed to perform their implied contractual duties.” (Id. at ¶ 50.)  Defendant alleges that Plaintiffs’ conduct caused him severe emotional distress  in that he “could not sleep for months with Cross defendants on the premises  knowing the cross defendant had previously told him she owned a gun and her  behavior toward cross plaintiff had become more aggressive.” (Id. at ¶  51.)   Plaintiffs  argue on demurrer that Defendant has not alleged any of the elements for this  cause of action. (Dem. 11:12–19.) To the extent that Plaintiffs again  improperly argue the merits of the case regarding this cause of action, the  Court again disregards these arguments. While Plaintiffs argue that “a failure  to perform alleged implied contractual duties, cannot support under any stretch  the intent or reckless disregard to cause emotional distress,” this argument is  raised for the first time on reply without any citation to supporting legal  authority. (Pls.’ Reply 3:9– 10.) In fact, while “a breach of contract is  tortious only when some independent duty arising from tort law is violated,” “a  tortious breach of contract ... may be found when … one party intentionally  breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause  severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or  substantial consequential damages.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th  543, 553–554.)    The Court  therefore finds it sufficient that Defendant’s factual allegations, as stated  above, support each element for a cause of action for intentional infliction of  emotional distress. Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer against  Defendant’s second cause of action.   D.    Negligence   Defendant’s  third cause of action against Plaintiffs alleges Negligence. “‘Ordinary  negligence’—an unintentional tort—consists of a failure to exercise the  degree of care in a given situation that a reasonable person under similar  circumstances would employ to protect others from harm.” (City of Santa  Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 753–754 [emphasis added].)  To state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1)  “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)  “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC  (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here,  Defendant alleges that Glasgow “had intimate knowledge of the financial [sic]  situation Cross Plaintiff Christopher had been in prior to relocating to  California from Nevada,” and “used this knowledge to manipulate and reassure  Cross Plaintiff Christopher of her intention to be responsible and pay her  bills including monthly rent and take care of her own adult children or teach  them to care for themselves.” (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 55–56.)   As  Plaintiffs argue, these allegations fall short of stating any of the elements  necessary for a cause of action for Negligence. (Dem. 12:18–21.) Moreover,  Defendant appears to allege that Plaintiffs’ intentional conduct constitutes  such alleged negligence, which cannot qualify as a negligent act. The Court  notes that in opposition, Defendant does not address any of his causes of  action beyond his first cause of action for Breach of Oral Contract. Based on  the foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer against Defendant’s third cause  of action.   E.     Intentional  Misrepresentation (Fraud)   Defendant’s  fourth cause of action alleges Intentional Misrepresentation (Fraud) against Plaintiffs.  “One who willfully deceives another with intent to induce him to alter his  position to his injury or risk, is liable for any damage which he thereby  suffers.” (Civ. Code § 1709.) The elements that must be pleaded in a cause of  action for fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of its falsity (or “scienter”);  (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and  (5) resulting damage. (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154  Cal.App.4th 347, 363.)   Fairness  requires that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the  court can weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to  answer. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The  particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when,  where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)   Here, Defendant  alleges multiple purported misrepresentations, including that Glasgow gave him  “an expectation … the cross defendants children would be moving out after  graduating college and no[t] that they would be there forever;” and “that she  had quit her job when in truth she had been fired.” (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶¶  62, 72.) “Cross Plaintiff has been put in severe financial jeopardy due to the misleading  statements and self serving actions.” (Id. at ¶ 67.)   As  Plaintiffs argue, here, Defendant fails to allege that Glasow knew these  statements were false when she made them, and furthermore, “it is not clear if  and how Cross-Plaintiff relied on this alleged representation and what damages  Cross-Plaintiff suffered as a result of this this alleged misrepresentation.”  (Pls.’ Reply 4:18–19.) The Court again notes that Defendant does not address  this cause of action in his opposition. Based on the foregoing, the Court  sustains the demurrer against Defendant’s fourth cause of action.   F.     Accounting   Defendant’s  fifth cause of action alleges an Accounting against Plaintiffs. “A cause of  action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between  the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance  is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An action  for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to  recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle  v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)   Here,  Defendant alleges that he lent Glasgow “a significant amount of funds …  including but not limited to $5000.00 for Cross Defendant to rejoin the Set  Painters Local union,” but Glasgow “made only a minimal attempt” to repay him.  (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 76–77.)   As  Plaintiffs argue, here, “to determine the balance owed it is enough [that the  sum may be determined by] a simple calculation and therefore, an accounting is  not necessary.” (Pls.’ Reply 5:18–19.) The Court again notes that Defendant  does not address this cause of action in his opposition. Based on the  foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer against Defendant’s fifth cause of  action without leave to amend.   G.    Conversion   Defendant’s  sixth cause of action alleges against Plaintiffs Conversion. “Conversion is  generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal  property of another.” (Fremont Indemnity Co., 148 Cal.App.4th at 119.) “The  elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to  possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or  disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015)  61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “The tort of conversion applies to personal property,  not real property.” (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1295.)   Here,  Defendant alleges that he is “the sole named individual on the title, deed,  mortgage of the property ands [sic] was prevented from enjoying and relaxing in  his own home” by Plaintiffs’ conduct. (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 80–88.)  However, as Plaintiffs observe, “Cross-Plaintiff fails to state if Cross-Defendant  interfered with his personal property without his consent and which personal  property is at stake and fails to indicate recoverable damages.” (Pls.’ Reply,  6:5–8 [emphasis added].)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not alleged facts sufficient  to support a cause of action for Conversion. The Court again notes that  Defendant does not address this cause of action in his opposition. Accordingly,  the Court sustains the demurrer against Defendant’s sixth cause of action.   H.    Declaratory  Relief   Defendant’s  seventh cause of action against Plaintiffs alleges Declaratory Relief. “To  qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action  presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,  and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the  party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC  (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) “There is no basis for declaratory relief  where only past wrongs are involved.” (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc.  v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366.) A cause of  action for declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of action  for the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General  of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)   Here,  Defendant realleges that Plaintiffs breached the alleged oral agreement,  resulting in Defendant bringing an unlawful detainer action against Plaintiffs.  (Add. B to Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 97–99.) However, Defendant alleges that he “is in  doubt that his rights were are being upheld,” and that “Cross Defendants [’]  action(s) have put Cross Plaintiff in jeopardy of losing his home.” (Id.  at ¶¶ 100, 102.)   Plaintiffs  argue on demurrer that Defendant has not alleged any actual controversy subject  to declaratory relief. To the extent that Defendant is concerned about his  “rights” in connection with the unlawful detainer action, “since possession was  no longer at issue, the Unlawful Detainer was dismissed.” (Dem. 17:24–25.) The  Court agrees, and again notes that Defendant does not address this cause of  action in his opposition.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not alleged facts sufficient  to support a cause of action for Declaratory Relief. Accordingly, the Court  sustains the demurrer against Defendant’s seventh cause of action without leave  to amend.   I.       Constructive  Trust   Defendant’s  eighth and final cause of action against Plaintiffs alleges Constructive Trust.  “One who gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence, the  violation of a trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he or she has some  other and better right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the thing gained, for  the benefit of the person who would otherwise have had it.” (Civ. Code §  2224.)  “The case law explains that in  order to create a constructive trust as defined in section 2224, three  conditions must be satisfied: the existence of a res (property or some interest  in the property); the plaintiff's right to that res; and the defendant's  acquisition of the res by some wrongful act.” (Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS  Corp. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1402.)   Here,  Defendant alleges that he “has the sole right to the property with full  ownership interest,” and “affirms that all titles, deeds, and related home  expense are in his name and his name only and that at no time was Cross  Defendant ever told that she was to be an ‘owner’ of the home.” (Add. B to  Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 108, 110.)   However, as  Plaintiffs observe, “at no point have Cross-Defendants wrongfully acquired the  property. To this day the property deed is still under Cross-Plaintiff’s name.  At no point have Cross-Defendants had the property deed or any such document  transferring ownership to them in any capacity.” (Dem. 18:20–23.) The Court agrees  and finds that based on the allegations made in Defendant’s cross-complaint, he  has not and cannot allege that Plaintiffs wrongfully acquired the property.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not alleged facts sufficient  to support a cause of action for Constructive Trust. The Court again notes that  Defendant does not address this cause of action in his opposition. Accordingly,  the Court sustains the demurrer against Defendant’s eighth cause of action  without leave to amend.   J.      Leave  to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Defendant’s  cross-complaint, and Defendant has made no showing that he can successfully  amend his pleading. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant leave to amend his  fifth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.   With  respect to the first, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action, based on the  Court’s liberal policy in granting leave to amend, the Court grants Defendant  30 days leave to amend his cross-complaint so that he may allege facts  sufficient to state those causes of action. However, Defendant is cautioned  that “following an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the  pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint  only as authorized by the court's order. … The plaintiff may not amend the  complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do  so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting  leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is: d.       Overruled as to Defendant’s second cause of  action; e.        Sustained as to Defendant’s fifth, seventh, and  eighth causes of action without leave to amend; and f.         Sustained as to Defendant’s first, third,  fourth, and sixth causes of action with 30 days leave to amend.     