  Case Number:  24STCV02990    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration and Stay the Action.
 
BACKGROUND
GIANNI VALENCIA (“Plaintiff”) brings this case against
LITHIA MOTORS, INC. and DCH TORRANCE IMPORTS INC. (“Defendants”) alleging wage
and hour and FEHA claims. 
Defendants move for an order compelling binding
arbitration and staying this case. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A party seeking arbitration has the burden of proving
by a preponderance of evidence that a valid arbitration agreement exists. Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842; see also
§ CCP 1281.2.  A party meets its initial
burden simply by reciting the terms of the governing provision, or by attaching
a copy of the provisions.  Sprunk v.
Prisma LLC (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 785, 793. Once the petitioner meets its
burden, “the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may
present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges.” Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160. 
ANALYSIS
Arbitration Agreement Authentication
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court first considers whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then whether the claims are covered
within the scope of the agreement. Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.
Defendants argue they have met their initial burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement because they provide a copy
of the agreement to arbitrate. Collinet Decl., Ex. 1. Defendants submit the
declaration of Christine Collinet, who states that Defendants use the Workday program
for the electronic onboarding process for job applicants, and the Adobe Sign
software to track the electronic signature of documents within the Workday
program. Collinet Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4. Ms. Collinet states the Adobe Sign program
allows applicants to review and sign employment agreements and creates an audit
trail for such signatures. Id., ¶ 5. Ms. Collinet states that Plaintiff
electronically signed the arbitration agreement and her declaration attaches an
audit trial for Plaintiff’s signature. Id., ¶¶ 6-7, Exs. 1-2. She states
that the audit trail shows that the arbitration agreement was delivered to
Plaintiff at the email address venedie@yahoo.com and then returned and marked completed
in the program. Id., ¶ 7. 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021)
72 Cal. App. 5th 158, 165. The evidence must be sufficient to create a factual
dispute to shift the burden back to the arbitration proponent who retains the
ultimate burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the
authenticity of the signature. Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755. 
 
Here, Plaintiff contends that Defendants have not carried
their burden of proving an enforceable agreement because Plaintiff does not recognize
the signature on the arbitration agreement and he has no recollection of
signing the agreement. Valencia Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4-5. Plaintiff’s statement that he
does not recognize the signature on the agreement is immaterial because it is
an electronic signature. And Plaintiff’s claim he does not recall signing the
agreement is not persuasive. Ms. Collinet’s declaration explains that Defendants
emailed Plaintiff the arbitration agreement at his email address and then he e-signed
the agreement and sent it back, as reflected in the audit trail. Collinet
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7. While Plaintiff claims he does not recall signing the agreement,
he notably does not dispute that the email address listed in the audit trail is
his email address. This means that he has not created a factual dispute as to
whether the electronic signature “by Gianni Valencia (venedie@yahoo.com)” as stated
in the audit trail means what is says it means, i.e. that Plaintiff electronically
signed the agreement. Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 846 (noting
that if a party does not recall signing an arbitration agreement the moving
party has the ultimate burden of proving the electronic signature is
authentic). Plaintiff does not provide any other challenges to the validity of
the arbitration agreement; therefore, Defendants have established that an
agreement to arbitrate exists. Moreover, Plaintiff does not dispute that the agreement
covers the claims in his Complaint. 
   
Unconscionability
For an arbitration agreement to be unenforceable as
unconscionable, both procedural and substantive unconscionability must
be present. Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.
1.      Procedural
Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability includes oppression
arising from unequal bargaining power causing an absence of meaningful choice
and real negotiating, and surprise due to hidden terms drafted by the party
seeking to enforce the provisions. Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 581.
Contract of Adhesion:
Plaintiff asserts that the presentation of the employment and arbitration
agreements together would lead one to feel that the agreement was
take-it-or-leave-it, particularly where no opt-out provision existed.
Opposition, 5:24-6:10.
“[A] compulsory predispute arbitration agreement is
not rendered unenforceable just because it is required as a condition of
employment or offered on a 'take it or leave it' basis.” Lagatree v. Luce,
Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127. 
As a matter of law, Plaintiff failed to show that the
agreement was a requirement of employment and that it contained substantively
unconscionable provisions. Specifically, the agreement, above the signature
line, boldly states that the agreement is voluntary and Plaintiff could consult
with an attorney. Those words imply that Plaintiff could opt out. 
Thus, the Court rejects the contract-of-adhesion
ground.
Agreement Explanations:
Plaintiff contends that Defendants did not explain the arbitration agreement.
E.g., opposition, 5:1. 
The absence of “authentic informed choice,” due to the
lack of straightforward, unbiased explanations of an agreement, may constitute
procedural unconscionability. Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th
443, 470 (where employer indicated preference to arbitrate, it was likely that
“nonexecutive” lower echelon employees felt some pressure not to opt out of the
agreement), overruled on other grounds as recognized by Marenco v. DirecTV
LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1421. Evidence that a moving party never
communicated that an arbitration agreement was nonnegotiable, in response to
opposing proof to the contrary, failed to “create a meaningful conflict in the
evidence,” because the moving party did not affirmatively establish that it had
made opposing party aware of an ability to negotiate, or that by law opposing
party such a right. Htay Htay Chin v. Advanced Fresh Concepts Franchise Corp.  (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 704, 710.
Plaintiff’s declaration arguably supports a finding of
procedural unconscionability. However, if Plaintiff had encountered the
agreement, then reading it would reveal some explanations, such as the bold,
capital letters above the signature line, explaining that it allows consulting
an attorney and is a voluntary waiving of jury trial. 
Agreement Surprise:
Plaintiff reasons that the agreement, over one page long, has sentences that are
complex and filled with words with small font size. E.g., opposition, 5:5-8.
Surprise caused by provisions buried in a long
contract, or misleading captions, indicates procedural unconscionability. Thompson
v. Toll Dublin, LLC (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1373. Here, the agreement
is relatively short, with limited “legalese,” and is mostly understandable by
laypersons. 
Incorporated Arbitration Rules:
Plaintiff argues that the agreement itself fails to explain the arbitration
process, and that its link to JAMS rules does not suffice. E.g., opposition,
5:20-24.
Cases that have held that the failure to provide a
copy of the arbitration rules is procedurally unconscionable involved an
unconscionability claim that depended upon the incorporated arbitration rules. Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246. “Whether a document
purportedly incorporated by reference was ‘readily available’ is a question of
fact.” Baker v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884,
895.
Plaintiff’s argument is weak because there is no
evidence that anything in the JAMS rules relate to unconscionability. Further,
the link to the rules was readily available to Plaintiff from the contract
itself.
Thus, the Court does not find procedural
unconscionability with respect to incorporated JAMS rules.
2.      Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff’s opposition briefly references substantive
unconscionability. Opposition, 4:22.
Claims brought under the Fair Employment and Housing
Act (FEHA) are subject to arbitration, if there are provisions for arbitrator
neutrality, discovery, written decisions, and expense limits.  O'Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 267, 273.
Plaintiff’s opposition contains no criticism of
substantive aspects, such as arbitrator neutrality, discovery, written
decisions, and expense limits. Instead, all points relate to procedural
unconscionability, as addressed above.
In sum, the Court rejects unconscionability as any
ground to deny the motion.
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the motion to compel arbitration. The
action is stayed under Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 pending the outcome of
the parties’ arbitration. 