 Case Number:  23MSCV03937    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer by defendant Elliman.  The gist of the argument is that Elliman, who
represented plaintiff as plaintiff’s broker in plaintiff’s purchase of certain
property, did all that it was required to do as a matter of law and that the
allegations of breaches of duty are without merit because there was no duty
breached and the allegations regarding fraud are also meritless.  The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Specifically, plaintiff bought property.  What plaintiff did not know was that a third
party had been buying up adjacent property lots to build a large multi-unit
housing development.  That caused the
price of the lots purchased by the third party to skyrocket, but would have the
effect of making the other lots less valuable, at least according to the
complaint.  Plaintiff asserts that Elliman
and the individual broker, Roffer, knew or should have known of the development
and advised plaintiff of that fact. 
Defendants assert that they had no such duty.  While they agree that they represented
plaintiff as plaintiff’s agent and broker, and that there is some fiduciary
aspect to that duty, they contend that the limits of their duty are set forth
in Civil Code section 2079 and whatever other duties are undertaken by
contract.  They also assert that there is
no fraud here or concealment.
 
In opposition, plaintiff notes that defendants advertised
their superior position regarding knowledge about the area.  Roffer touted his “market intel” as a reason
he should be retained.  Elliman’s public
statements say that “access to timely information is a vital resource in a
market that is constantly changing. 
Committed to providing the best information in the industry, we are
proud to offer this service to you and your clients.”  According to plaintiff, any minimal effort to
review public records would have disclosed the development and defendant had a
duty (in light of its statements) to undertake such an investigation.  Further, plaintiff notes that a different
agent at Elliman had represented sellers of the property bought by the third
party, so Elliman knew of the development.
 
Turning first to the demurrer based on uncertainty, that is
disfavored and the elements for it have not been met.  That aspect of the demurrer is
OVERRULED.  (Butler v. Sequeira
(1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143.)
 
Next is the demurrer as to the breach of fiduciary duty
cause of action.  The court believes that
defendants were fiduciaries given the broker/client relationship.  (Field v. Century 21 Klowden-Forness
Realty (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 18.) 
But the fact that there is a fiduciary relationship does not mean that
the duties are unlimited.  The court
generally agrees that Civil Code section 2079 and the contract delimit the
boundaries of that duty.  Field
discusses the issue in general terms. 
Even so, the court does not believe that the matter can be resolved on
demurrer for two independent reasons. 
The first, and major, reason is that Elliman has presumptive knowledge
of the information in its files.  As
such, it is alleged that it had actual knowledge of the incoming
development.  The court does not believe
that (at least as a matter of pleading) a broker who actually has knowledge of
a material fact can elect not to disclose that fact to the client, at least
absent some contractual notification of that point that is clear and
unambiguous.  Such a limit is not unheard
of.  For example, where a broker
represents both a buyer and a seller, there can be clauses as to what
information a broker will share.  But
that is not at play here.  Defendants
represented only the buyer; not the seller. 
And there is no limitation of which the court is aware in any contract
in which defendants limit or purport to limit their duties.  For that reason, defendant’s reliance on Padgett
v. Phariss (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1270 is off point.  That case involved a duty to
investigate.  Here, no investigation was
needed because defendants already had knowledge of the fact at issue.  The matter is a bit harder as to Roffer, who
was not the actual agent in the other transaction.  But the court does not know, and it cannot
tell from the pleading, whether Roffer in fact had knowledge of this.  Further, Roffer might well have been under a
duty to at least inquire as to any actual knowledge that Elliman had concerning
the property.  That might not be the
case, but Roffer did not demur on that particular basis.
 
Because of defendants’ actual knowledge of the development
(as alleged), the court need not decide whether its representations of superior
“market intel” and the like constituted an obligation to do more than they did
and at least make some minimal effort to gather the “market intel.”  But if the court did have to consider it, the
court would likely find it is enough for pleading purposes.  The reason is not that defendants had a duty
to go to the Hall of Records and see what’s what.  The reason is that the very comps that
defendants provided were based in part on this information.  Where comps are unusually high for the
market, one with superior “market intel” would know the reason or at least try
to find out.  After all, it is those
comps that form much of the underpinning for the price offered by the buyer for
the property.  For pleading purposes,
then, the allegations are sufficient.  It
could be that such a theory would not survive summary judgment.  It could be that Roffer actually did inquire
as to what was driving the market and found a different answer (for example,
that the other homes were twice as large as the house being purchased and were
on larger lots).  Or there could be some
other factual defense.  But this is a
pleading motion.
 
As to the cause of action for fraud, that, too, is
OVERRULED.  This is a concealment case,
so there is perhaps no actual fraudulent statement; the fraud is the failure to
disclose something that needed to be disclosed. 
As just discussed, defendants (or at least Elliman) had actual knowledge
of a material fact and defendants were plaintiff’s fiduciary.  That gives rise to a duty to disclose.  
 
The court is aware that defendants might view this burden as
too large.  The court disagrees.  First, defendants can always plainly and
forthrightly disclaim any duty to disclose information to their client even if
it is material.  The court renders no
opinion on the limits of such a disclaimer, but at least it would put a client
on notice that it ought to disregard statements that it has superior
information or can be trusted to make full disclosures of known facts.  Relatedly, defendants do not have to sell
themselves on their superior knowledge. 
Second, defendants could undertake a search of its own files as to a
particular property.  Law firms do it all
the time when they run conflict checks; it would not seem to be too big a
burden on the broker, or at least, if it is too big, that has not been argued
here and cannot be decided on demurrer. 
But to be plain, this decision is WITHOUT PREJUDICE to a claim later by
the defense that it has no duty to disclose information in its own files that
would materially influence its client’s decision.  That issue was not the basis for the
demurrer, and because it was not the basis, the court is assuming the normal
legal rule but without definitively adjudicating whether there might be law out
there to the contrary in this context and under these sorts of particular
facts.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.  Because the various causes of action
survived, there is a basis for punitive damages.  As to emotional distress, the court agrees
that typically such damages are not available regarding the purchase of
property.  But they might be available
where there is a breach of fiduciary duty. 
(Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226.)  The court believes that the prayer survives
at least a pleading motion.  But the
court gives no assurance that it will survive consideration on the facts and
merits.
 
Defendants have 30 days to answer.