  Case Number:  21STCV36141    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for a final status conference.  A prior FSC was held on January 18,
2024.  At that time, the court noted that
the defense had filed unilateral FSC materials but plaintiff had filed
nothing.   Plaintiff had stated, however,
that she had attempted to work with defendant but had been rebuffed.
 
The court notes that plaintiff was unrepresented until very
recently.  This led to grave concerns by
the court.  In the original case,
plaintiff’s counsel stated that plaintiff required a guardian ad litem.  That case was later dismissed by plaintiff,
but not until after the court had appointed the guardian.  The case was then re-filed.  Plaintiff had counsel and a showing was made
that plaintiff did not in fact need a guardian ad litem.  But on December 1, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel
withdrew and plaintiff became self-represented. 
The court explained the consequences of that: plaintiff could proceed,
but she still needed to abide by the law and this court’s orders.  In the more than five months between then and
last week plaintiff did not retain new counsel—less than two weeks before
trial.  The court therefore views
plaintiff’s statements about the difficulty of being self-represented as not a
persuasive reason to continue the trial or to not be ready for the FSC.  
 
But there is another problem.  Plaintiff’s mother passed away in
mid-April.  She lived in Iran, and
plaintiff has had difficulty getting a visa to go to Iran to close out her mother’s
affairs.  According to her new counsel,
she only recently obtained the visa and is now en route to Iran.  The visa is of limited duration.  The court has to agree that such is good
cause to continue the trial.  Were this
any other litigant, there would be no question about it.  The fact that plaintiff was unrepresented
until recently does not mean that she will be treated more harshly than other
litigants.  The concern is that plaintiff
did not bring this to the court’s attention in April, after her mother died, or
even in May until May 31, 2024.  It is
hard for the court to understand why plaintiff did not contact defense counsel
about this or the court.  That said,
unless this whole thing is a ruse, cause is established.  And, while the court has had some experience
where plaintiff has been less than honest with the court in the past, the court
is not prepared to say that plaintiff is not being honest about this. 
 
The court’s trial calendar is such that it does not know
when the matter can be restored to the trial calendar.  The court will discuss that with the
parties.  Plaintiff is not seeking to
re-open discovery, so discovery will remain closed.
 
The court notes that in defendant’s trial brief, defendant
contends that all or most of the causes of action are barred by the statute of
limitations.  If that is so, defendant
should bring a motion for summary adjudication. 
The continuance will allow defendant to do so in a timely manner.  The court is not suggesting that such a
motion would succeed, only that if the matter is time barred and there is no
factual dispute about it, then there is no need for a trial; if, on the other
hand, the matter is not time barred, then the case will have to be tried or
settled.
 
For now, the ex parte application must be
GRANTED.  The court will discuss the
reasons that more timely notice was not given, but that will not affect the
need to move the trial date.