 Case Number:  23TRCV02445    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARIA
  GARZA DE MONTES,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02445




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LOS
  ANGELES WORLD AIRPORTS, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 23,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Vanessa Fantasia,
Esq. for plaintiff Maria Garza De Montes
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Maria
Garza De Montes, effective upon the filing of the proofs of service of the
signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
(Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On July 28, 2023, plaintiff Maria
Garza De Montes filed a complaint against Los Angeles World Airports, Los
Angeles International Airport, City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
State of California, and California Department of Transportation premises
liability based on dangerous condition. 
She alleges that on August 11, 2022 she was ascending an escalator when
she slipped on an unknown object and/or substance and/or liquid causing her to
fall. 
On November 29, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s attorney Vanessa
Fantasia, Esq. seeks to be relieved as counsel of plaintiff. 
            Counsel states in her declaration
that “[o]ur office began having issues communicating with” plaintiff and that
there has been an irremediable breakdown in attorney-client communication. 
            Counsel states that she confirmed
within the past 30 days that the client’s address is current by mail, return
receipt requested.  Counsel has not shown
a copy of the return receipt.  
            The court notes that the hearing was
continued to allow counsel to file a supplemental declaration to show further
proof of confirmation of the client’s address. 
            On April 9, 2024, plaintiff’s
counsel filed a supplemental declaration that on March 26, 2024, plaintiff was
served via U.S. Certified Mail to plaintiff’s last known address, and that her
address was confirmed by USPS signature confirmation service. 
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Maria
Garza De Montes, effective upon the filing of the proofs of service of the
signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
(Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.