  Case Number:  22STCV03393    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARLENE
  THOMAS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV03393




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AEOLUS
  AIR CHARTER, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 23, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Marlene Thomas
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Aeolus Air Charter, Inc.
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of Aeolus PMQ (Categories 33-66) and Production of
Documents
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant Aeolus is
ordered to produce a person(s) most qualified as to Categories 47, 56-61, and
64.  Defendant’s objections lack merit.
Defendant
is ordered to serve code-compliant supplemental responses as to their purported
“amended” responses as to Nos. 9-11, 16-17, and 24-34 within twenty days.  As to No. 36, defendant is ordered to produce
a privilege log within twenty days.
At the
person most qualified deposition, defendant is ordered to produce documents
responsive to Nos. 14-15, and 18 (as to Ryan Thomas only).
BACKGROUND
            On January 27, 2022, plaintiff
Marlene Thomas, ind. and as successor in interest to Ryan Thomas, filed a
wrongful death and survival action against Aeolus Air Charter, Inc. for (1)
negligence, (2) products liability – strict, and (3) products liability – negligence.   
On November 29, 2022, the case was
transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M. 
On December 27, 2022, the case was
deemed related to 22VECV01878.
On January 27, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s motion to amend complaint to add punitive damages and add
parties.
On January 30, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC adding Let’s Jett, Inc., Conner Jadwin, and Dave Ventrella as
defendants.
            On January 9, 2024, the court denied
defendant Conner Jadwin’s motion to quash education records.
            On March 26, 2024, the court denied
defendants’ motion for summary adjudication.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
CCP
§2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named
is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event,
the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
Marlene Thomas requests that the court compel the deposition of defendant
Aeolus Air Charter, Inc.’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) on Categories 47,
56-61, and 64, and Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 9-11, 14-15,
16-17, 18, 24-30, 31, 33, 34, and 36.
            Plaintiff
explains that on March 1, 2024, plaintiff took the deposition of Aeolus/Let’s
Jett’s current Director of Operations, Brian Gaines.  During that deposition, plaintiff inquired
about the meaning of a document that referenced a “risk severity matrix” and
“safety risk assessment,” which had been produced earlier.  Plaintiff asserts that Gaines testified that
the document in question reflected a Safety Risk Assessment matrix, known as a
Flight Risk Assessment Tool (“FRAT”). 
Plaintiff contends that a FRAT is a tool used to assess the risk of a
given flight, variable by variable, and ensure that appropriate plans are
employed where necessary to mitigate risks, or in situations where the risk is
too high for a given flight, ensure that the flight is not released
altogether.  Although Gaines was unaware
whether a FRAT assessment was done for the subject flight, he testified that
the subject flight would have scored a 33, which would have fallen in the red
risk, or “no-go zone,” and the flight would have been cancelled.  
            Plaintiff
further explains that on March 5, 2024, plaintiff served a deposition notice on
defendants for the PMK (Categories 33-66) for March 20, 2024, regarding
multiple new topics plaintiff learned about in recent depositions, including
categories relating to Aeolus’ use of the FRAT, the FRAT matrix in place at the
time of the subject flight, and FRAT completed for the subject flight.  On March 14, 2024, defendant objected on the
grounds that plaintiff had already deposed Aeolus’ CEO Conner Jadwin and that a
further deposition was harassing, burdensome, and oppressive, and that the date
was unilaterally selected.  On March 18,
2024, although counsel met and conferred, which resulted in eliminating several
categories of testimony and document requests, the parties were unable to come
to an agreement on the remainder of categories and their corresponding requests
for production. 
            Plaintiff
argues that defendant’s objections have no merit and do not constitute grounds
to refuse to produce a witness. 
Plaintiff contends that she seeks to conduct a deposition “only on
categories pivotal to liability and punitive conduct” of defendants, based on
new information.  Plaintiff also asserts
that counsel did inquire about the FRAT system as to two deponents but that
they did not have requisite knowledge of the systems in place at the time of
the subject flight.  Plaintiff further
argues that good cause exists for the production of documents as set forth in
the separate statement and Hunter Norton declaration, including that defendant
has not produced a privilege log.
            In
opposition, defendant contends that the parties did not meet and confer as to
the categories and document requests. 
Defendant asserts that the need to take the deposition of an Aeolus PMQ
on the subject of FRAT is “based solely on the failure of plaintiff to ask the
question that they frame in their motion,” that is, what, if any, criteria were
added to the matrix as a result of the accident.  Further, defendant argues, the “new” topics
are not new and a PMQ deposition “does not warrant the time, expense, and
disruption to Let’s Jett’s business.”  Defendant also asserts that defendants
searched JetInsight and no pre-flight forms were completed in connection with
the subject flight, and that the subject flight was the only flight N605TR
undertaken while the aircraft was leased to Aeolus.
            In
reply, plaintiff asserts that counsel sufficiently met and conferred.  See further declaration of Andrew Owen.  Plaintiff also reiterates that the PMQ topics
are necessary, and that a declaration would not suffice in place of a
deposition.  Further, defendant has not
shown that any of the categories are unduly burdensome or oppressive.  As for the categories involving FRAT,
plaintiff reiterates that the deponent Gaines did not have knowledge.  As to the “Volaris” category, plaintiff
asserts that testimony was unclear whether Volaris was the source of a
pre-flight risk assessment tool utilized at the time of the subject incident,
“which bears further discovery.”  As to
JetInsight categories, defendant’s opposition contains representations that are
not admissible, including that they caused a search to be conducted.  To the extent that Aeolus completed no such
pre-flight forms for the subject flight, plaintiff argues that it is entitled
to explore how, and why that occurred in deposition.  Plaintiff also asserts that defendant’s
“responsive” separate statement fails to address plaintiff’s substantive
arguments related to each objection and that defendant’s amended responses are
not code-compliant.
            The
categories at issue are:
            47.  Your company’s use of Volaris, including
Volaris safety management system guidance, manuals, flight risk assessment
tools, pre-flight risk assessments, on or before the 
date of the subject flight.
56. Aeolus’s
policies and procedures regarding the use of any Flight Risk Assessment Tool
(FRAT) on or before the date of the subject flight.
57. The
FRAT rubric and categories in place on the date of the subject flight. 
58. The
FRAT form completed for the subject flight.
59. Any
and all pre-flight forms completed, or information entered, through JetInsight
for the subject flight. 
60. Any
and all pre-flight forms completed, or information entered, through JetInsight
for 
flights in 2021.
            61.
Any communications about the FRAT form completed for the subject flight. 
64. Your use
of IPreFlight, also referred to APG, for any flights on the Challenger 605.
 
The court
finds that defendant’s objections lack merit.
 
The
requests for production at issue are:
Nos. 9-11:  personnel files of Connor Jadwin, Takashi
Yanagi, David Ventrella, seeking information relating to the competence of
current and former Aeolus executives to run an air charter service, interview
and hire pilots, and competence to write policies and procedures regarding
same.
In their
response to the separate statement, defendants state that they “amend their
previous responses.”  They state that
they have made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that they are
unable to comply with the request because the requested documents have never
existed.
Nos. 14-15:
documents relating to company’s use of Volaris, prior to 2023 and on or before
the date of fatal crash.
Plaintiff
asserts that defendants can point only to a SMS manual, “that has nothing to do
with Volaris,” which is not responsive.
Nos. 16-17:  documents on Aeolus’ quarterly safety meeting
and board meeting minutes.
In their
response to the separate statement, defendants state that they “amend their
previous responses.”  They state that
they have made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that they are
unable to comply with the request because the requested documents have never
existed.
No. 18:
documents reflecting capital contributions to company.  
In their
response, defendants assert that if plaintiff seeks capital contributions to
establish whether Ryan Thomas was a managing agent, then the request should be
narrowed, and that “all other contributions are irrelevant and barred by third
parties right to privacy.”
Plaintiff
asserts that to the extent defendants claim that Ryan Thomas was a partner, or
owner of the company, “evidence of other capital contributions is relevant to
such classification.”
Nos. 24-29:  documents concerning Aeolus’ use of any
flight risk assessment tool, or FRAT, whether through JetInsight or another
program at or around time of subject flight. 
In their
response to the separate statement, defendants state that they “amend their
previous responses.”  They state that
they have made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that they are
unable to comply with the request because the requested documents have never
existed.
Plaintiff
asserts that defendants’ response that they completed a search relating to
pre-flight and FRAT forms existent at the time of the subject incident is
“evasive, contradictory to its own officer’s prior testimony.”  Plaintiff contends that defendants’
opposition allude to factors being “added” to the matrix following the subject
flight, “which necessarily requires a pre-existing matrix to exist.”
No. 30:  documents relating to pre-flight forms
completed, or information entered, through JetInsight for flights in 2021.
In their
response to the separate statement, defendants state that they “amend their
previous responses.”  They state that
they have made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that they are
unable to comply with the request because the requested documents have never
existed.
Plaintiff
asserts that defendant indicates that they will produce a FRAT check for other
flights in 2021 but have failed to do so.
Nos. 31,
33:  documents concerning what
documents Aeolus filed with the FAA relating to training program and flight
plans at or near the time of the subject flight.
As to No.
31, in their response to the separate statement, defendants contend that they
have produced all training programs on several occasions, but that as it deals
with training programs filed with, and approved by the FAA, they do not exist
because the training programs were not filed with the FAA.  Thus, they “amend their previous
responses.”  They state that they have
made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that they are unable to
comply with the request because the requested documents have never existed.
As to No.
33, in their response to the separate statement, defendant states that in
regard to flight plans filed with the FAA forth with the Challenger 605, the
crew filed it, not defendants, and defendants do not have it.  Thus, they “amend their previous
responses.”  They state that they have
made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that they are unable to
comply with the request because the requested documents have never existed.
No. 34:  documents relating to Aeolus’ use of
IPreFlight, or any flights on the Challenger 605.  
In their
response to the separate statement, defendant states that in regard to flight
plans filed with the FAA forth with the Challenger 605, the crew filed it, not
defendants, and defendants do not have it. 
Thus, they “amend their previous responses.”  They state that they have made a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry and that they are unable to comply with the
request because the requested documents have never existed.
No. 36:  privilege log to extent Aeolus claims
privilege.
Defendants
acknowledge that they have not provided one.
 
The court
rules as follows:  The motion is
GRANTED.  Defendant Aeolus is ordered to
produce a person(s) most qualified as to Categories 47, 56-61, and 64.  Defendant’s objections lack merit.
Defendant
is ordered to serve code-compliant supplemental responses as to their purported
“amended” responses as to Nos. 9-11, 16-17, and 24-34 within twenty days.  As to No. 36, defendant is ordered to produce
a privilege log within twenty days.
At the
person most qualified deposition, defendant is ordered to produce documents
responsive to Nos. 14-15, and 18 (as to Ryan Thomas only).
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant Aeolus is
ordered to produce a person(s) most qualified as to Categories 47, 56-61, and
64.  Defendant’s objections lack merit.
Defendant
is ordered to serve code-compliant supplemental responses as to their purported
“amended” responses as to Nos. 9-11, 16-17, and 24-34 within twenty days.  As to No. 36, defendant is ordered to produce
a privilege log within twenty days.
At the
person most qualified deposition, defendant is ordered to produce documents
responsive to Nos. 14-15, and 18 (as to Ryan Thomas only).
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.
Moving
party [or prevailing party] is ordered to give notice of ruling.