  Case Number:  2302107    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  19 Defendant  Vivian Ta’s (“Moving Defendant’s”) unopposed Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED in  its entirety, without leave to amend. Counsel  for Moving Defendant to lodge a proposed order in accordance with these  rulings. Counsel  for Moving Defendant to give notice and submit a [Proposed] Judgment of dismissal within 5 (five) court days.  STATEMENT  OF THE CASE This  case arises out of an alleged breach of an insurance contract.  Plaintiff is the owner of Golden Horse  Century LLC and a commercial condominium unit located at 2095 S. Atlantic Blvd,  Unit K, Monterey Park, CA 91754 (the “Property”).  (Compl. ¶1.)   Plaintiff entered into a commercial lease agreement with Defendant Hanh  Ti Bich Nguyen to rent the Property.  (Id.  ¶20.)  Nguyen  acquired a commercial liability insurance policy from Defendant State Farm  General Insurance Company (“State Farm”), that listed Plaintiff as an  additional insured.  (Id. ¶22.)  Nguyen provided Plaintiff with a certificate  of liability insurance identifying Defendant Vivian Ta as an authorized  representative for State Farm.  (Id. ¶23,  Exh. 2.)  The certificate of liability  insurance also lists Plaintiff as the certificate holder.  (Id.)   The certificate of liability insurance states it confers no rights upon  the certificate holder and that the certificate of insurance does not  constitute a contract between the authorized representative and the certificate  holder.  (Id.)    On  February 1, 2020, Plaintiff discovered the Property had sustained water  damage.  (Id. ¶24.)  At this time, Nguyen had also abandoned the  Property.  (Id.)  Over nine months later, on November 12, 2020,  Plaintiff made an insurance claim with Ms. Ta.   (Id. ¶27.)  Plaintiff  claims that the State Farm policy provides for coverage for some or all of the  property damage in the Property.  (Id.  ¶29.)    The operative  complaint alleges claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence and (3) insurance  bad faith. Defendant Vivian Ta (“Moving Defendant”) demurs to the Complaint.     GROUNDS  FOR DEMURRER Moving  Defendant demurs to the entire complaint on grounds it fails to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.   Moving Defendant argues that the contract and bad faith insurance claims  fail because there is no contract between Moving Defendant and Plaintiff.  Moving Defendant also demurs to the negligence  claim because Moving Defendant argues it owed no duty to Plaintiff to prevent  the alleged harm Plaintiff claims to have suffered in his Complaint.  MEET/CONFER  Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before  the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or  by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer  for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would  resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least  five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §  430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving  party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer  efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)   Moving Defendant submits the Declaration of Eduardo M. Osorio, which  shows defense counsel attempted to meet and confer by telephone but counsel for  Plaintiff did not return his call.   Defense counsel also sent a letter outlining the grounds for the  demurrer, to which Plaintiff also failed to respond.  This satisfies the meet and confer  requirements of Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41. DISCUSSION A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint  states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.  Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)   When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally, with  a view to substantial justice between the parties.  (Code Civ. Proc, § 452; Stevens v.  Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.  Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)   “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded  but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the  factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which  may be judicially noticed.”  (Mitchell  v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000,  1007.)  “The only issue involved in a  demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”   (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) “To survive a demurrer, the  complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each  evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff's proof need  not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School District  (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)    1.  First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract Moving Defendant argues there  is no contract between Plaintiff and Moving Defendant, and accordingly, there  can be no breach of contract claim.  The  Court agrees. Plaintiff’s breach of  contract claim against Moving Defendant relates to an insurance policy issued  to Nguyen by State Farm, for which Plaintiff was listed as an additional  insured.  (Compl. ¶22.)  It is not alleged that Moving Defendant was a  party to the insurance policy.  Only a  party to a contract can be liable for damages caused by a breach of that  contract. (See, e.g., Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182,  1186  (stating that plaintiff must prove the existence of a contract to prevail on  breach of contract claim).)   Further, under California  law, an insurance agent, like Moving Defendant, cannot be held liable for  breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing because they are not a party to the insurance contract.  (Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9  Cal.3d 566, 576; Henry v. Associated Indemnity Corp. (1990) 217  Cal.App.3d 1405, 1416-1417.) Additionally, to overcome a  demurrer, a cause of action for breach of contract must set forth the contract  between the parties with sufficient certainty to show that the plaintiff has a  right to performance by the defendant.   In California, there are two accepted methods of pleading a written  contract with sufficient certainty: (1) the contract may be pled by either  setting forth the terms of the contract verbatim or by attaching a copy of the  written agreement, or (2) each term of the contract may be stated according to  its legal effect.  (Construction  Protection Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th  189, 198-199.) Here, the Complaint does not  attach the policy, reference it by its policy number, or state the terms of the  policy with sufficient certainty.  Nor  does the Complaint allege the legal effect of the policy.  As a result, the Court cannot determine  whether the policy was even in effect at the time of the alleged incident and  which provisions of the policy are alleged to have been breached.   Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is  SUSTAINED as to Moving Defendant. 2. Second Cause of Action:   Negligence Plaintiff alleges that Moving Defendant was “negligent in  the handling, processing and investigating insurance claims related to covered  losses.”  (Compl. ¶42.)  But Plaintiff  has not alleged any facts that would support a finding that Moving Defendant  had a duty to handle, process, and investigate insurance claims.  The  Complaint alleges that Nguyen provided Plaintiff with a certificate of  liability insurance that identified Moving Defendant as the “contact and  authorized representative for [State Farm].”   (Id. ¶23.)  But there are  no facts to suggest that as the contact and authorized representative, Moving  Defendant was charged with the personal duty to handle, process or investigate Plaintiff’s  claim.  In addition, an insurance agent acting on behalf of an  insurance company is generally not personally liable to the insured for  negligence committed within the scope of his employment. (Lippert v. Bailey (1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 376,  382; see  also Sanchez, 72 Cal.App.4th at 254-255.)   Liability for an insurance agent’s acts performed within the scope and  with full disclosure of the agency relationship rests with the principal, the  insurance company.  (Id.)  There is no allegation here that Moving  Defendant was acting outside the scope of her agency relationship with State  Farm.   Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is  SUSTAINED. 3.  Third Cause of Action: Bad Faith Insurance As with a breach of contract  claim, a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing cannot  be asserted against a defendant that is not a party to the contract.  (Gruenberg v. Aetna, Ins. Co., 9  Cal.3d at 576 (“Obviously, the non-insurer defendants were not parties to the  agreement for insurance; therefore, they are not, as such subject to an implied  duty of good faith and fair dealing.”)  Further,  “California courts have refused to extend the liability for bad faith, the  predominant insurer tort, to agents and employees of the insurer.”  (Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden Claims  Services, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 254-255.)  Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has not  alleged Moving Party is a party to the insurance policy.   Accordingly,  the demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED. C. Leave to Amend Where the defect raised by a demurrer is reasonably capable  of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the  plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.  (Velez v. Smith (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th  1154, 1174.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a  pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d  311, 318.)  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition, and accordingly, has  not met its burden to show that the Complaint can be amended successfully.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.