  Case Number:  23STCV17500    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  61 Cross-Defendant
KCS West, Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Whisky Hotel, LLC’s
Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED and DENIED.
 
Cross-Complainant to give notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant KCS West, Inc. (Plaintiff)
demurrers to the fourth cause of action for inducing a breach of contract
contained in the First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC) of Defendant Whisky
Hotel, LLC (Defendant).  Plaintiff argues
that the FAXC fails to plead the existence of a written or oral contract, and
fails to plead that Plaintiff caused any breach of Defendant’s contract with
its lender. (Demurrer at pp. 13–16.) Plaintiff further argues that any alleged
conduct that induced the breach was privileged, and further that Defendant
endorsed the conduct at issue in another agreement. (Demurrer at pp. 17–18.)
 
These arguments are unpersuasive.
Plaintiff relies on authority stating that actions on a contract must plead
whether the contract is oral or written, and must plead the contract verbatim.
(Demurrer at pp. 13–14, citing Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459; Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) Yet this authority applies to claims for
breach of contract, not to tort claims for interference with contractual
relations, where the “actionable wrong lies in the inducement to break the
contract or to sever the relationship, not in the kind of contract or
relationship so disrupted, whether it is written or oral, enforceable or not
enforceable.” (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.) In any event, the FAXC adequately pleads the legal
effect of the contract at issue, which is that Defendant had a loan agreement
with a third party lender for $35 million, with one of the specified events of
default being “a material change in the financial condition of the borrower”
i.e. Defendant. (FAC ¶¶ 47–48; McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) The contract has been adequately alleged. 
Plaintiff  argues
that Defendant has not adequately alleged a “breach” of the loan agreement that
it caused, as opposed to a termination of the contract pursuant to a specified
event of default. (Demurrer at pp. 14–15.) However, a claim for interference
with contract need not allege a breach of any term of the agreement, but may
arise from actions that “induce a party to a contract to terminate the contract
according to its terms.” (I-CA Enterprises, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th
at p. 389.) 
Plaintiff argues that there are no allegations that it
caused any such termination, since the FAXC alleges that the lender, in
choosing to terminate the agreement, had access to information provided by
Defendant that would have provided sufficient basis to declare a default.
(Demurrer at pp. 15–16.) But this argument is contrary to the allegations of
the FAXC. The pleading states that the lender had Defendant’s information
concerning a more limited $6 million cost overrun, but that Plaintiff provided
“false information” concerning a larger $11.5 million in proposed change
orders, which “led the Bank to declare an event of default.” (FAXC ¶ 8.) The
FAXC sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff’s false report, and not Defendant’s
accurate report, caused the termination of the contract. 
Plaintiff claims their conduct in telling the lender their
$11.5 million change order estimate was privileged, as its contract with
Defendant obligated it to provide a consent to assignment form. (Demurrer at p.
16.) This argument, however, depends on facts neither pleaded nor judicially
noticeable — namely Plaintiff’s good faith. (See Richardson v. La Rancherita
(1979) 98 Cal.App.3d 73, 81 [“In harmony with the general guidelines of the
test for justification is the narrow protection afforded to a party where (1)
he has a legally protected interest, (2) in good faith threatens to protect it,
and (3) the threat is to protect it by appropriate means.”].) Indeed, the FAXC
alleges that Plaintiff knew its estimated cost overruns were false. (FAXC ¶
50.)  
Plaintiff finally argues that the “Transition Agreement”
executed by Defendant following Plaintiff’s termination of their contract with
Defendant contained an incorporation and endorsement of the information that
Plaintiff sent the lender. (Demurrer at pp. 17–18.) Assuming that this court
may take judicial notice of the terms of this contract, which are not contained
in the FAXC, they do not support Plaintiff’s argument. Plaintiff does not cite
the particular contractual provision that it relies on, but the paragraph
quoted in its own FAC states that Defendant “acknowledges and agrees that
KCSW's termination of Owner for cause per Section 24.4 of the GMP Contract
executed on January 30, 2020 (‘Contractor) per the Notice of Termination letter
dated October 26, 2022 is effective as of Friday, November 18, 2022, and that
this Agreement is not a waiver of KCSW's termination of Owner.” (Li Decl. Exh.
B, § 1.1.) The contract thus agrees as to the effective date of the
termination, not the accuracy of the $11.5 million  estimate that Defendant claims was wrongfully
communicated to the lender.
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED. 
II.               
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Plaintiff moves to strike
allegations related to its practices as to other construction projects and
other lawsuits, which it claims are irrelevant to this action. (Motion at pp.
7–8.) 
Plaintiff’s argument is
unpersuasive. Allegations as to the “dozens of lawsuits against” Plaintiff
relate to Defendant’s inclusion of Tack Builders, Inc. as a cross-defendant,
based on the theory that Tack is a  “mere
continuation” of Plaintiff, formed because of Plaintiff’s insolvency. (FAXC ¶¶
1, 14.) Moreover, while allegations of Plaintiff’s prior conduct on other,
similar projects may constitute impermissible character evidence (Evid. Code §
1101, subd. (a)), it may also relate to “motive, opportunity, intent,
preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident.” (Evid.
Code § 1101, subd. (b).) Intent is an element of Defendant’s fourth cause of
action for intentional interference with contract. (Reeves v. Hanlon
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) 
Plaintiff’s argument
against the prayer for punitive damages is solely that the fourth cause of
action for induced breach of contract is defective. (Motion at pp. 8–9.)
Because that claim survives Plaintiff’s demurrer, the motion is DENIED.
 