  Case Number:  23VECV03472    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  W SHARONA BAROR vs LANCE DANIEL LENTZ, et
al.
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of ldl
general contractors, inc.’s person most qualified 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
2, 2024                                Trial
Date:       February 3, 2025
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03472
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Sharona Baror 
Responding Party:     Defendant LDL General Contractors, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises out of a motor vehicle collision. On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff
Sharona Baror filed a complaint against LDL General Contractors, Inc. and Lance
Daniel Lentz for negligence. Plaintiff alleges on February 26, 2023, Defendant
Lentz rammed the front of the Ford vehicle into the back of Plaintiff’s Toyota
at a high rate of speed. Defendant Lentz was operating the Ford with the
consent, permission, and knowledge of Defendant LDL General Contractors, Inc. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the
Deposition of LDL General Contractors, Inc.’s Person Most Qualified is GRANTED.

 
discussion
 
Plaintiff
Sharona Baror move to compel LDL General Contractors, Inc. to produce their
person most qualified for deposition on the grounds the person produced at the
June 21, 2024 deposition testified she was not the PMQ on the noticed topics, did
not sufficiently familiarize herself with the noticed topics, and was confused
as to why she was designated as the PMQ because Defendant Lance Daniel Lentz is
clearly the PMQ.
 
Where a would-be deponent fails to
appear, proceed with, or produce documents for deposition in a duly noticed
deposition notice, the noticing party may move for an order to compel said
deponent’s attendance, testimony, and/or production for inspection of any
document described in the deposition notice.¿ (CCP § 2025.450 (a).) 
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant LDL General
Contractors failed to designate the correct person as the person most
qualified. Defendant LDL designated Renee Lentz as its person most qualified.
But by Ms. Lentz’s own admission, Defendant LDL should have produced Lance
Daniel Lentz as the PMQ. (See Gordon Decl., Exh. I.) Plaintiff contends Defendant
has suggested that there is some conflict precluding Lance Lentz from being
designated as the PMQ; however, Plaintiff is unaware of any conflict. Moreover,
Defendant has suggested d that because Lance Daniel Lentz has already testified
in his individual capacity that it does not need to comply with its obligations
to produce the correct person as the PMQ. That is incorrect. Plaintiff contends
Mr. Lentz’s testimony in his individual capacity does not accomplish what Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 seeks to accomplish. Lastly, Ms. Lentz’
failed to adequately prepare for the deposition under Section 2025.230.
 
In opposition, Defendant LDL first
argues the motion must be denied on procedural grounds. Defendant LDL contends
that the motion should have been brought under Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480. Plaintiff failed to do so. Moreover, Section 2025.480 requires a
separate statement to be brought. The court disagrees. The court finds Section
2025.450 was the proper vehicle and no separate statement required. Even so,
the motion would be timely under Section 2025.480 and although no separate
statement was provided, the court finds no grounds to deny the motion on that
basis alone. 
 
Next, Defendant LDL argues Mr. Lentz has
been extensively deposed in this litigation over the course of two dates, which
essentially only discussed LDL, his relationship thereto and why he believes he
was in the course and scope of employment. LDL also argues Mr. Lentz does have
a clear conflict of interest with LDL on matters which Plaintiff admits are
material to this litigation. LDL has denied that Mr. Lentz was acting in the
course and scope of LDL at the time of the accident and counsel for LDL was instructed
by Mr. Lentz’ counsel that they were not permitted to communicate directly with
Mr. Lentz. LDL also asserts if the court does grant this motion, it requests it
be ordered to produce a PMQ who has reviewed the requisite documents and spoken
to the requisite persons to qualify to speak on all the noticed categories, not
Mr. Lentz. 
 
The court finds a PMQ must be produced,
regardless if it is Mr. Lentz and whether Mr. Lentz was already produced his
own capacity. A party generally cannot be deposed more than once without
agreement of the parties or a court order.  The exception to this rule is
when an individual is noticed for deposition in his or her individual capacity
and is also produced by a responding party as a PMQ.  (CCP §
2025.610(c)(1).) Thus, the limitation on taking more than one deposition from a
natural person does not apply where the person is also the PMQ.  (See CCP
§ 2025.230.) It is not clear how Mr. Lentz deposition as PMQ for LDL creates a
conflict of interest. However, it is clear Renee Lentz, who was produced, was
not knowledgeable in the area and failed to prepare for the deposition although
she had ample notice to familiarize herself with the topics. Whether or not Mr.
Lentz is the appropriate PMQ for deposition, the parties must decide. However,
if the PMQ who appears at the deposition is not able to answer any of the
noticed topics due to lack of preparation, LDL may be subject to more sanctions.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of LDL
General Contractors, Inc.’s Person Most Qualified is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests Defendant LDL
General Contractors, Inc., and its counsel, MacDonald & Cody, LLP, and/or
Biesty Law, to pay sanctions in the amount of $10,050.80. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450(g)(1), the Court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in
favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the
party with whom the deponent is affiliated . . . .”
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,560.00, a reasonable amount of fees
for this simple motion to compel.  
 