  Case Number:  20STCV40739    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  11/07/2024 – 9:00am
Case No: 20STCV40739
Trial Date: 03/03/2025
Case Name: RODOLFO ZARATE BLANCO v. KIRSTIE LEE WALKER;
AT&T CORPORATION; PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY; and DOES 1-10
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION TO QUASH/MOTION PROTECTIVE ORDER – RES ID 2112
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendants, Pacific Bell Telephone
Company and Kirstie Lee Walker (Defendants)

Responding Party: Plaintiff, Rodolfo Zarate Blanco
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Moving Papers: Motion; Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants
Pacific Bell Telephone Company and Kirstie Lee Walker’s (hereinafter
“Defendants”) will and hereby do move for: 1) an order quashing the deposition
notice and staying the deposition of Pacific Bell Telephone Company Employee
Tim States pursuant to C.C.P. section 2025.410, pending determination of this
Motion, and 2) a protective order to limit the scope of the deposition of Mr.
States, including document production, to questions and documents related to
issues of causation such as speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received
and perceived), and conversations at the scene about the nature of the impact
and injuries and 3) monetary sanction against Mr. Raymond Feldman, Esq. and the
Law Offices of Law Offices of John C. Ye, APLC in the amount of $1,810.00. This
request for monetary sanctions is brought on grounds that, pursuant to Sections
2025.410(d) and 2025.420(h), Defendant has been forced to incur unnecessary
fees and costs in having to bring this Motion when, pursuant to the Court’s
September 23, 2023 Order on Ms. Walker’s deposition, this deposition should
also be limited in the same manner. If Defendants are successful in having this
Motion to Quash and for Protective Order granted, Defendants seek reimbursement
for their fees and costs in having to bring this Motion, as Plaintiff had no
substantial justification for opposing this Motion, nor does any other
circumstance make the imposition of this sanction unjust.
Defendants seek this protective order on grounds that,
following Defendants’ Admission of Liability for the accident filed and served
on June 13, 2023, any issues related to liability for the accident or negligent
entrustment/hiring/retention are irrelevant and thus cannot be asked at Mr.
States’ deposition. Liability for the accident is no longer relevant because
Defendants have already admitted to being responsible for the accident.
Pursuant to that Admission, and as stated by Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51
Cal.4th 1148, 1154-1158, evidence of negligent entrustment/hiring/retention is
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Pursuant to the Court’s Order dated September 18, 2023, granting
Defendants’ Motion for Protective Order as to Ms. Walker’s deposition based
upon the same issues raised herein, Ms. Walker’s deposition was limited to
causation (speed of the vehicles, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received
and perceived), and conversations at the scene about the nature of the impact
and injuries). Thus, Mr. States’ deposition and document production should also
be narrowed to causation (speed of the vehicles, damage to the vehicles,
injuries (received and perceived), and conversations at the scene about the
nature of the impact and injuries). (Declaration of S. Candice Shikai (“Shikai
Decl.”), Ex. B.)
The deposition of Mr.
States thus should be limited as enumerated above: to his observations about
the nature of the impact, any conversations between the parties and observation
of Plaintiff, and whether any party suffered any injury from this incident.
These are the only issues that would go to causation and the issue of
Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. Despite meeting and conferring with
Plaintiff’s counsel on this issue and Defendants pointing out that this
deposition and documents should be limited in accordance with Diaz and
the Court’s order of September 18, 2023, on the same issues relative to Ms.
Walker’s deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel has not agreed to a limited scope for
Mr. States’ deposition.
 
Defendants thus seek a
protective order to limit Mr. States’ deposition pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.420, as any questions related to liability for the accident,
or negligent entrustment, hiring, or retention are irrelevant, unduly burdensome,
and oppressive. Defendants also move to quash the deposition notice served
September 17, 2024 for a deposition on October 1, 2023, and stay this
deposition pursuant to Section 2025.410, pending determination of this Motion.
Allowing this deposition to proceed would only serve to unnecessarily prejudice
Defendants, as information beyond the scope of the Court’s September 18, 2023
Order on Ms. Walker’s deposition has no probative value and would not be
admissible at trial.
 
This Motion is based upon
the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Declaration of S.
Candice Shikai, Esq., the documents on file in this action, and all pleadings, papers,
and records on file in this action and on such further evidence and argument as
may be properly received at or before the time of hearing.”
 
(Def. Mot. p. 2-4.)
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
Rodolfo Zarate Blanco, filed the instant action against Defendants – Kirstie
Lee Walker; AT&T Corporation; and Pacific Bell Telephone Company – on
10/23/2020.
 
The Complaint alleges one cause of
action for “Motor Vehicle.”
 
The Complaint alleges that on
11/1/2018, on I-405, Defendants negligently, carelessly, and recklessly
operated, controlled, maintained, and entrusted a motor vehicle, a 2011 Ford
E350, and employed the operator of said motor vehicle, so as to cause a
collision with the motor vehicle occupied by Plaintiff, a 2016 Ford F150,
resulting in injuries and property damage to Plaintiff. 
 
Further Plaintiff alleges in relevant
part that: (a) The defendants who operated a motor vehicle are Kirstie Lee
Walker; (b) The defendants who employed the persons who operated a motor
vehicle in the course of their employment are AT&T Corporation and Pacific
Bell Company; (c) The defendants who owned the motor vehicle which was operated
with their permission are AT&T Corporation and Pacific Bell Company; and
(d) The defendants who entrusted the motor vehicle are AT&T Corporation and
Pacific Bell Company.
 
ARGUMENTS
Defendants’
Arguments
Defendants’ “Introduction” section
of their motion alleges the following:
This
action arises from a three-vehicle collision that occurred on November 1, 2018.
Pacific Bell Telephone Company (“PBTC”) employee Kirstie Lee Walker was driving
a PBTC vehicle I-405 near Lennox Blvd. in Inglewood, CA, when traffic in front
of her came to a sudden stop. Ms. Walker could not stop in time, and the front
of her vehicle contacted the rear of the vehicle in which Plaintiff Zarate
Blanco (“Plaintiff”) claims he was a passenger.
Defendants
PBTC and Walker have admitted to liability for the accident, but do not admit:
that the accident caused the injuries Plaintiff alleges were caused by the
accident; the reasonableness and necessity of the medical care provided to
Plaintiff; the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and damages asserted
by Plaintiff, or anything beyond liability for causing the accident. One issue
of dispute in this case is whether Plaintiff was actually in the vehicle at the
time of the accident, and there is strong evidence that he was not, as he is
not listed on the Traffic Collision Report (“TCR”), and Officer Inzunza
testified, among many issues, that: 1) had he assisted Plaintiff out of the
vehicle as Plaintiff alleges, he would have listed Plaintiff in the TCR, 2) if
he had taken off Plaintiff’s seatbelt as Plaintiff alleges, he would have
listed Plaintiff in the TCR, 3) if Plaintiff was disoriented at the scene as
Plaintiff alleges, he would have listed Plaintiff in the TCR, and 4) if
Plaintiff was a witness to the incident, such as being a passenger in a vehicle
involved in the incident he would have listed Plaintiff in the TCR. Moreover,
Ms. Walker testified she only saw two Hispanic men at the scene of the incident
(this is a three-vehicle accident, and the driver of the other two vehicles
were men, and had Plaintiff been a passenger in one of the involved vehicles
there would have been three Hispanic men at the scene).
Plaintiff now seeks the deposition of
Pacific Bell Telephone Company employee Tim States, and Defendants seek to
quash the operative deposition notice (to stay the deposition until this Motion
is heard), and to obtain a protective order limiting this deposition to only
those questions and topics that are relevant to the issue of Plaintiff’s
damages, including causation as it relates to his claimed injuries from the
incident. Any topics and documents outside of that, including Mr. States’
employment history, his cellphone records, employment file, and any other
topics and documents pertaining to liability for the accident and negligent
entrustment, hiring, or retention, would be irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence, unduly burdensome, and oppressive
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.420. Why would Mr. States’
employment history and his cellphone records be relevant? He is Ms. Walker’s
supervisor who came to the scene of the incident, and he was not the driver of any
vehicle involved in the incident.
In
light of the Defendants’ Admission of Liability and the fact that it is
undisputed that Walker was in the course and scope of her employment at the
time of the incident, issues beyond causation are irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and Plaintiff is
not entitled to question Mr. States on any of those issues that fall outside
the scope of the Diaz case. Allowing this deposition to proceed without
limitation would not only be irrelevant, but unduly burdensome and oppressive
as this would allow Plaintiff’s counsel to elicit irrelevant information, which
is a waste of time and resources. Allowing Mr. States’ deposition to proceed
without limitation would also be inconsistent with the Court’s September 18,
2023 ruling limiting the scope of Ms. Walker’s deposition in accordance with Diaz.
1
[The
Court notes that footnote one states, “Plaintiff’s counsel argues that on
September 18, 2023, Judge Lynne M. Hobbs was “bamboozled” by the defense. This
could not be further from the truth. Judge Hobbs simply applied the law to the
facts and issued the protective order limiting Ms. Walker’s deposition in line
with the Court’s opinion in Diaz.”]
As
further detailed below, Defendants thus respectfully request this this Court
grant this Motion and: 1) quash the deposition notice served on September 17,
2024, so that this deposition is stayed pending resolution of this Motion, and
2) issue a protective order limiting the deposition and documents requested of
Mr. States to questions related to limited issues of speed, damage to the
vehicles, injuries (received and perceived) and conversations at the scene and
3) monetary sanctions as set forth above in the Notice, below, and in the
Declaration of S. Candice Shikai.
(Pl. Mot. p. 5-6.)
Further, Defendants submitted the declaration of Defendants’
counsel, Shikai, which stated:
3.
Defendants now seek a protective order to properly limit the deposition of Mr.
States’, as an unlimited deposition would be irrelevant, burdensome, and
oppressive in light of Defendants’ admission of liability. 
4.
Defendants filed and served their Admission of Liability on June 13, 2023.
Defendants’ Admission of Liability expressly provides that Defendants admit
that Ms. Walker was in the course and scope of her employment with PBTC at the
time of the incident, and Defendants admit to “liability for causing the
accident that occurred on November 1, 2018, which is the subject of this
lawsuit. Defendants will not assert any comparative fault upon Plaintiff for
the accident.” The Admission of Liability further provides that “Defendants DO
NOT stipulate that the accident caused each of the injuries Plaintiff alleges
were caused by the accident, the reasonableness and necessity of the medical
care provided to Plaintiff, the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and
damages asserted by Plaintiff, or anything beyond liability for causing the
accident as set forth” in the first paragraph of this Admission. In other
words, Ms. Walker was at fault for hitting the Farias vehicle that Plaintiff
alleges he was in. However, if a trier of fact determines that Plaintiff was
not in the Farias vehicle at the time of the incident, then his alleged
injuries could not have been caused by the incident. A true and correct copy of
Defendants’ Admission of Liability is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
5.
On September 18, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ Motion for Protective
Order as to Kirstie Walker’s deposition and documents, limiting the scope of
her deposition and documents to questions and information related to limited
causation - issues of speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received and
perceived) and conversations at the scene. A true and correct copy of the
Court’s Order is attached hereto as Exhibit B. 
6.
In Ms. Walker’s deposition on March 15, 2024, she testified that her supervisor
Tim States had come to the scene of the incident. And although she initially
testified that her colleague Mark Martin had driven by the scene of the
incident, Ms. Walker later corrected her testimony on record in the deposition,
stating that it was actually Michael Jenkins, not Mark Martin, who had happened
to drive by the scene of the incident. A true and correct copy of the relevant
portions of Ms. Walker’s deposition are attached hereto as Exhibit C. 
7.
On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff counsel Mr. Raymond Feldman emailed defense
counsel stating that “def walker [sic] testified inconsistently as to which of
two supervisors came to the scene of the subject accident” and demanding that
by the next day at noon, Defendants provide the correct name of the supervisor
and a deposition date or Plaintiff will unilaterally notice the deposition. He
also stated that if Defendants would stipulate that Plaintiff “was in the
truck,” that Plaintiff would not depose the supervisor. A true and correct copy
of this September 10, 2024 email is attached hereto as Exhibit D. 
8.
On September 11, 2024, Mr. Feldman emailed again, correcting his prior email.
He asked for the depositions of Tim States, Mark Martin, and Michael Jenkins
and said that if Defendants offered deposition dates within 21 days by noon
that day, that Plaintiff will try and work with Defendants, and if not,
Plaintiff would unilaterally set these deposition dates. A true and correct
copy of Mr. Feldman’s September 11, 2024 email is attached hereto as Exhibit
E. 
9.
I responded on this same date, stating that as Ms. Walker stated in her
deposition, the correct employee was not Mark Martin, but Michael Jenkins. I
further stated that Defendants were not opposed to producing Tim States and
Michael Jenkins for deposition, but defense counsel asked what information they
are expected to have. I also pointed out that these depositions would need to
be limited in accordance with Diaz and in the same manner Ms. Walker’s
deposition was limited. A true and correct copy of my response email from
September 11, 2024 is attached hereto as Exhibit F.
10.
Mr. Feldman responded on the same date, stating that there will be no
limitations. He further stated that “your side bamboozled judge hobbs [sic]
& plaintiff” by moving for the subject protective order. He makes this
statement even though the Motion had been granted. He further included other
baseless accusations about Defendants, and he stated that the deposition
notices would be served that day. A true and correct copy of Mr. Feldman’s
response is attached hereto as Exhibit G. 
11.
On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff unilaterally noticed the depositions for all
three employees: Tim States, Michael Jenkins, and Mark Martin. The deposition
notices also contain document requests, which seek documents Defendants have
already produced in discovery and for Ms. Walker’s deposition, or seek each
employee’s personnel files, cellphone records, driver’s license, and other
personal, confidential records for these witnesses who were not driving the
PBTC vehicle. A true and correct copy of the deposition notice for Tim States
served on September 17, 2024 is attached hereto as Exhibit H. 
12.
Defendants timely objected to Mr. States’ deposition, including document
requests, on September 24, 2024. A true and correct copy of Defendant’s
objections to this deposition notice is attached hereto as Exhibit I. 
13.
On September 25, 2024, Defendants were served with Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
these depositions with an unjustified request for sanctions. Defendants are
not refusing to produce Tim States/these witnesses for deposition.
Defendants are seeking the Court’s guidance first on the scope of Mr. States’
deposition before this deposition proceeds, so that time and resources are not
wasted on arguing extensively about the scope of this deposition during the
deposition, and there is a Court Order in place as to the scope of this
deposition. While Defendants anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel will still
resist such a Court Order exactly as he did during Ms. Walker’s deposition,
Defendants still need the Court to decide this issue for clarity before this
deposition can proceed. 
14.
Although the parties have had a mediation scheduled for November 5, 2024, which
has been on calendar since July 10, 2023, Mr. Feldman’s email of September 10,
2024 is the first time Mr. Feldman has requested these depositions. Mr. Feldman
is now attempting to move this mediation out another month and a half.
(Shikai Decl. ¶¶ 3-14.)
Further, Defendants argue that under Diaz v. Carcamo
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1154-58, it  is
well established that where an employer admits that an employee was in the
course and scope of his employment when causing an incident, plaintiff cannot
then attempt to obtain evidence of negligent entrustment, hiring, or retention
because it is irrelevant.
Opposition’s Arguments
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that
in order to determine if Defendants can benefit from the Kirstie Lee Walker
protective order at the deposition of Tim States, the Court should resolve
whether Defendants have admitted Plaintiff was a passenger that they rearended.
Plaintiff argues in relevant part:
Defendants
filed an admission of liability to Plaintiff on June 13, 2023, Exhibit A: “2.
Defendants admit to liability for causing the accident that occurred on
November 1, 2018, which is the subject of this lawsuit. Defendants will not
assert any comparative fault upon Plaintiff for the accident.” This
unequivocally admits Defendants caused the accident that is the subject of the
instant lawsuit in which Plaintiff claimed he was a passenger whose vehicle was
struck by Defendants. There is no disclaimer that Defendants' admission of
liability is limited to rearending the F-150, as opposed to also rearending the
claimed occupant Plaintiff. Indeed, any ambiguity would have to be construed
against Defendants as drafters under Civil Code Section 1654.
Defendants
filed a motion for protective order on June 20. 2024, Exhibit C [exhibits
omitted) that admits: “This action arises from a three-vehicle collision that
occurred on November 1. 2018. Pacific Bell Telephone Company (“PBTC”) employee
Kirstie lee Walker was driving a PBTC vehicle 1-405 near Lennox Blvd, in
Inglewood, CA when traffic in front of her came to a sudden stop. Ms. Walker
could not stop in time, and the front of her vehicle contacted the rear of the
vehicle in which Plaintiff Zarate Blanco 9 "Plaintiff”) was a passenger.
Defendants PBTC and Walker have admitted to liability for the accident, but do
not admit that the accident caused each of the injuries Plaintiff alleges were
caused by the accident, the reasonableness and necessity of the medical care provided
to Plaintiff', the nature and extent of Plaintiff's injuries and damages
asserted by Plaintiff, or anything beyond liability for causing the accident.”
Exhibit C at 4:3-10. This passage in the moving papers unequivocally admits
that the filed admission. Exhibit B. conceded that Plaintiff was a passenger in
the truck when Defendants rearended it.
Defendants
then used their filed admission of liability, including the concession just
noted at page 4 of their moving papers, to obtain a protective order on Sept
18. 2023 that limited the scope of testimony, but not documents, so as to
preclude evidence of negligent entrustment or hiring, but not evidence of
causation of injury or of Walker’s sobriety. Plaintiffs relied upon such
passage in interpreting the admission of liability and Judge Hobbs no doubt
also relied upon such passage when Her Honor granted the protective order in
part. It should be noted that Defendants had attached the CHP report of the
subject accident in their reply in support of their motion for protective order
for the Walker deposition, demonstrating that they had made their concession
that Plaintiff had been a passenger in the truck they rearended Plaintiff even
though they had the CHP report omitting mentioning him being in the truck.
…
If
the Court rules that Defendants have conceded that Plaintiff was a passenger
they rearended, then Plaintiff agrees that the protective order should carry
over to the Tim States deposition.
If
the Court rules that Defendants have not conceded that Plaintiff was a
passenger, then the protective order should be stricken as obtained by mistake
or fraud, and the benefit should not carry over to the Tim States deposition.


(Pl. Oppo. p. 2-4.)
Defendants’ Arguments in Reply
In Reply, Defendants argue that
Defendants’ admission of liability does not admit Plaintiff was in the vehicle
and that background facts in a prior motion brought by Defendants do not amount
to an admission.

ANALYSIS
Meet and Confer
“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any
other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a
protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.” (CCP § 2025.420(a).)
Here, Defendants’ counsel’s declaration does not allege that
a meet and confer occurred.
CCP § 2025.420(b)
Under CCP § 2025.420(b):
The court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent,
or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This
protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the
following directions:
(1) That the deposition not be taken
at all.
..
(5) That the deposition be taken only on
certain specified terms and conditions.
…
(9) That certain matters not be
inquired into.
(10) That the scope of the
examination be limited to certain matters.
(11) That all or certain of the
writings or tangible things designated in the deposition notice not be
produced, inspected, copied, tested, or sampled, or that conditions be set for
the production of electronically stored information designated in the
deposition notice.
…
(CCP § 2025.420(b)(1),
(5), (9), (10), & (11).
Here, Defendants move for
a protective order to limit the scope of the deposition of Mr. States,
including document production, to questions and documents related to issues of
causation such as speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received and
perceived), and conversations at the scene about the nature of the impact and
injuries.
Further, Defendants seek a protective order on the grounds that any
issues related to liability for the accident or negligent
entrustment/hiring/retention are irrelevant and thus cannot be asked at Mr.
States’ deposition.

Good Cause
Determining
whether or not the Court should grant or deny this motion is primarily
difficult because neither moving nor opposing papers submitted arguments that
were particularly helpful to the Court.
Therefore, in light of
that, the Court first notes that Defendants, as the moving party, have the
burden to establish good cause on this motion. “The court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent,
or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense….” (CCP §
2025.420(b).)
Vague Relief Sought
Defendants
move for a protective order to limit the scope of the deposition of Mr. States,
including document production, to questions and documents related to issues of
causation such as speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received and
perceived), and conversations at the scene about the nature of the impact and
injuries.
In the deposition notice
at issue, there are 12 categories of documents listed in the deposition notice
that Plaintiff seeks to be produced. Even assuming that Defendants demonstrated
good cause that the deposition questions and documents should be related to
issues of causation such as speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received
and perceived), and conversations at the scene about the nature of the impact
and injuries, Defendants’ motion does not indicate which of the 12 categories
of documents listed in the deposition notice fall within these categories. Therefore,
drafting a protective order would be difficult for the Court when Movants don’t
even explain which 12 categories of documents in the deposition notice should
be limited.
Further, Defendants seek
a protective order on the grounds that any issues related to liability for the
accident or negligent entrustment/hiring/retention are irrelevant and thus
cannot be asked at Mr. States’ deposition.
Again, even if the Court
assumes the truth of Defendants’ argument – that any issues related to
liability for the accident or negligent entrustment/hiring/retention are
irrelevant – Defendants fail to identify which of the 12 categories of
documents that are requested to be produced in the deposition notice fall under
the category of “issues related to liability for the accident or negligent
entrustment/hiring/retention.”  
September 18, 2023
Defendants
state:
On September 18, 2023, the Court
granted Defendants’ Motion for Protective Order as to Kirstie Walker’s
deposition and documents, limiting the scope of her deposition and documents to
questions and information related to limited causation - issues of speed,
damage to the vehicles, injuries (received and perceived) and conversations at
the scene. (Shikai Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.)
(Def. Mot. p. 7.)
Defendants argue that the
scope of this deposition and document production should be limited in the same
manner that Ms. Walker’s deposition was limited in the September 18, 2023
Minute Order.
For background, the Court
notes what the 9/18/2023 Minute Order stated:
Having reviewed and considered the moving
papers, opposition, reply, and argument presented, the Court adopts its
modified Tentative Ruling as follows: 
The Court GRANTS the motion for a
protective order. The scope of this deposition is to be limited to questions
related to issues of speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received and
perceived), conversations at the scene, sobriety at time of accident, and
whether defendant suffers from addictions to illegal drugs. Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 
Discussion: From the evidence before the
Court, the Court finds that the deposition should be limited according to the
liability already conceded by Defendant. The Court is unpersuaded that the area
of inquiry is relevant to the claims against the Defendant Employee Kirstie
Walker given the current posture of the case.
(9/18/2023 Min. Order, p.
1.)
 
Defendants also argue
that the issues involved in this motion have already been decided through the
Court’s September 18, 2023 Minute Order on Defendants’ Motion for Protective
Order for Ms. Walker’s deposition.
Here, the Court notes
that to the extent that Defendants are arguing that this Court must rule the
same as it did in accordance with the 9/18/2023 Minute Order, the Court does
not find that argument availing. 
Defendants come forward
with zero legal authority for the proposition that this Court is somehow bound
by a Minute Order pertaining to discovery propounded on a different individual.

This Court has no reason
to believe that moving Defendants do not have to establish good cause as to
this specific motion under 2025.420(b).  
Good Cause Revisited
Defendants
point this Court to Exhibit A of the moving papers. Exhibit A is Pacific Bell Telephone
Company and Kirstie Lee Walker’s Admission of Liability dated 6/13/2023.
This
admission states:
PACIFIC
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY and KIRSTIE LEE WALKER (collectively “Defendants”), by
and through their attorneys of record, hereby admit to the following:
1.
Defendant PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY (“PBTC”) admits that Defendant Kirstie
Lee Walker was an employee of PBTC and acting within the course and scope of
her employment at the time of the accident.
2.
Defendants admit to liability for causing the accident that occurred on
November 1, 2018, which is the subject of this lawsuit. Defendants will not
assert any comparative fault upon Plaintiff for the accident.
3.
Defendants DO NOT admit that the accident caused each of the injuries Plaintiff
alleges were caused by the accident, the reasonableness and necessity of the
medical care provided to Plaintiff, the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s
injuries and damages asserted by Plaintiff, or anything beyond liability for
causing the accident on November 1, 2018, which is the subject of this lawsuit.
(Shikai
Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.)

Defendants then explain
how Plaintiff now seeks the deposition of Pacific Bell Telephone Company
employee Tim States, and Defendants seek to quash the operative deposition
notice (to stay the deposition until this Motion is heard), and to obtain a
protective order limiting this deposition to only those questions and topics
that are relevant to the issue of Plaintiff’s damages, including causation as
it relates to his claimed injuries from the incident. 
Defendants argue that any
topics and documents outside of that, including Mr. States’ employment history,
his cellphone records, employment file, and any other topics and documents
pertaining to liability for the accident and negligent entrustment, hiring, or
retention, would be irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence, unduly burdensome, and oppressive pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 2025.420.
Here, the Court does not
follow Defendants’ arguments/line of reasoning. 
“The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense….” (CCP § 2025.420(b).)
Under CCP § 2017.010,
“any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
The Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the
action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.”
At the hearing, if
Defendants want this motion granted, Defendants should be expected to explain
their argument(s) to the Court, as the Court does not follow Defendants’
argument, and thus the Court fails to see how Defendants established good
cause.
Further, Defendants
should be prepared to address each of the 12 groups of documents requested to
be produced in the deposition notice in order to establish good cause for a
protective with respect to the 12 categories sought. Further, if Defendants
establish good cause for the protective order, Defendants should be prepared to
explain how they want the protective order drafted with respect to each of the
12 categories of documents sought in the document production in the deposition
notice.
Diaz
Defendants
argue that under Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1154-58, it is
well established that where an employer admits that an employee was in the
course and scope of his employment when causing an incident, plaintiff cannot
then attempt to obtain evidence of negligent entrustment, hiring, or retention
because it is irrelevant.
Defendants thus argue
that documents, evidence, or testimony relating to negligent entrustment,
negligent hiring, or negligent retention are irrelevant, and Plaintiff cannot
seek to discover this in Plaintiff’s deposition or requests for production
contained in the deposition notice.
The Court does not find Defendants’
argument on this issue availing. 
Defendants’ admission
states:
PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY and KIRSTIE
LEE WALKER (collectively “Defendants”), by and through their attorneys of
record, hereby admit to the following:
1. Defendant PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY (“PBTC”) admits that Defendant Kirstie Lee Walker was an employee of
PBTC and acting within the course and scope of her employment at the time of
the accident.
2. Defendants admit to liability for
causing the accident that occurred on November 1, 2018, which is the subject of
this lawsuit. Defendants will not assert any comparative fault upon Plaintiff
for the accident.
3. Defendants DO NOT admit that the
accident caused each of the injuries Plaintiff alleges were caused by the
accident, the reasonableness and necessity of the medical care provided to
Plaintiff, the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and damages asserted
by Plaintiff, or anything beyond liability for causing the accident on November
1, 2018, which is the subject of this lawsuit.
(Shikai Decl. ¶ 4, Ex.
A.)
Based on the Court’s
reading of Defendants’ admission, and based on Defendants’ moving papers,
Defendants explain how they have admitted liability for the accident, but have
not admitted that the accident caused the injuries Plaintiff alleges
were caused by the accident. Defendants even clarify in their moving papers how
one issue of dispute in this case is whether Plaintiff was actually in the
vehicle at the time of the accident.
The fact that Defendants
have not admitted to liability for causing the injuries to Plaintiff seems to
be relevant here. 
As stated in Diaz v.
Carcamo:
If, as here, all of a plaintiff's causes
of action depend on a contention that an employee's negligent driving in the
scope of employment was a cause of the plaintiff's injuries, and if the
defendant-employer offers to admit vicarious liability for its employee's
negligent driving, then that offer will “remove[ ] from the case” the issue of
the employer's liability for any damage caused by its employee's negligent
driving, leaving no “material issue” to which negligent entrustment evidence
can be relevant.
(Diaz v. Carcamo
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1157-58.)
Diaz seems
to be inapposite in the instant context because Defendants here are not
admitting to liability with respect to causing Plaintiff’s injuries. Diaz
did not address the instance here where Defendants are admitting liability to
the accident, but did not admit liability as to causing Plaintiff’s
injuries. Defendants attempt to use Diaz for a proposition that Diaz does
not support because Diaz did not address Defendants’ scenario here
wherein Defendants are not admitting liability to causing Plaintiff’s injuries.
Further, the Court notes that Diaz was not a discovery case. Diaz
was at a completely different procedural posture; the case had gone to trial.
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court will hear argument.
Sanctions
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (CCP § 2025.420(h).)
Defendants seek a total of $1,810.00 in sanctions
against Raymond Feldman and the Law of Offices of John C. Ye, APLC for
Defendants’ their fees and costs associated with having to bring this motion.
Defendants argue that Defendants have been forced to incur unnecessary fees and
costs in having to bring this Motion when, pursuant to the Court’s September
23, 2023 Order on Ms. Walker’s deposition, this deposition should also be
limited in the same manner.
Further, Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states:
My hourly rate is currently $275.00.
Approximately 0.5 hour was spent meeting and conferring with Plaintiff’s
counsel on this Motion; 2.5 hours were spent preparing this Motion; and I
anticipate an additional 2.0 hours will be spent preparing the Reply, and
preparing for and appearing at the hearing on this Motion. This totals 5.0
hours, and Defendants thus request reimbursement of attorney’s fees in the amount
of $1,375.00. The filing fee for this Motion is $435.00. Thus, Defendant seek a
total of $1,810.00 as reimbursement for this Motion. This request for monetary
sanctions is brought on grounds that, pursuant to Sections 2025.410(d) and
2025.420(h), Defendants have been forced to incur unnecessary fees and costs in
having to bring this Motion when, pursuant to the Court’s September 23, 2023
Order on Ms. Walker’s deposition, this deposition should also be limited in the
same manner. If Defendants are successful in having this Protective Order
granted, Defendants seek reimbursement for their fees and costs in having to
bring this Motion, as Plaintiff had no substantial justification for opposing
this Motion, nor does any other circumstance make the imposition of this
sanction unjust.
(Shikai Decl. ¶ 15.)
The Court will hear
argument, as the Court’s ruling on sanctions is dependent on the Court’s ruling
on the merits of Defendants’ motion. Of particular note, the Court would like
an explanation as to how Defendants’ counsel alleges that the filing fee for
this motion is $435.00.
COMBINED TENTATIVE
RULINGS FOR MOTIONS WITH Res IDs: 2112, 0011, 5166, 7236
Motions
0011 and 5166 are nearly identical to Motion 2112. Motion 0011 pertained to
Defendants seeking to quash the deposition/production of documents of Mark
Martin, and Motion 5166 pertained to Defendants seeking to quash the deposition/production
of documents of Michael Jenkins. Further, both Motions 0011 and 5166 sought
sanctions. Further, the Replies in Motion 0011 and 5166 clarified and adjusted
their sanctions request and specified the protective order should apply to RFPs
8, 9, 11, and 12 for the motions to quash.
As previously indicated
in the Court’s analysis re: Motion 2112, this Court does not follow Defendants’
reasoning on how the requested information is irrelevant, and Defendants had
the burden to show good cause with respect to their three motions – 2112, 0011,
and 5166. Therefore, the Court does not find that Defendants demonstrated good
cause for granting Defendants’ motions.
Additionally on hearing
today is Motion 7236, and that motion pertains to Plaintiff seeking to compel
the deposition testimony and production of documents at deposition of Defendant’s
(Pacific Bell Telephone Company) employees Tim States, Michael Jenkins, and
Mark Martin. 
Or to phrase it
differently, what Plaintiff seeks to compel in Motion 7236 are the exact things
that Defendants filed motions to quash directed at.
As noted in Defendants’
Opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel (Motion 7236), Plaintiff’s motion
improperly combined three motions into one.
A motion must be
brought separately as to each discovery method at issue. Plaintiff’s Motion
7236 should have been filed as three separate motions and three filing fees
paid. Instead, Plaintiff filed only one motion to compel the
deposition/requests for production at deposition for three different employees
of Defendant. “[P]ayment of filing fees is both mandatory and jurisdictional.” (Hu
vs. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1261,
1269.)  
Therefore, if Plaintiff
wants his three motions to compel the deposition testimony and requests for
production heard, Plaintiff should be prepared to pay the two additional filing
fees before the hearing.
Defendants’ argument in
Opposition that CCP 2025.450 is not applicable to compelling depositions is
unavailing. CCP § 2025.450(a) mentions “without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410,” and Defendants did not serve a valid objection under
that code section. 
However, equally as
problematic as Defendants’ motions, is that for Plaintiff’s motion, Plaintiff
also has the burden to show good cause under CCP § 2025.450(b) for his motion.
And just like Defendants’
motions, Plaintiff’s motion also fails to establish good cause for what he
seeks to compel.
Both parties fail to
explain their arguments in an understandable manner. 
Defendants seem to argue
that Mark Martin shouldn’t be deposed even though his name came up in Ms.
Walker’s deposition because Ms. Walker eventually corrected herself. 
The Court does not find
that argument availing. If Plaintiff were to take Ms. Walker’s word for it, and
in fact it turned out she wasn’t telling the truth, Plaintiff’s failure to
depose a witness with potentially discoverable information would fall on
Plaintiff’s shoulders.
However, overall, neither
party explains how what they seek to compel/quash is relevant/irrelevant in a
legally understandable manner. 
One would think the
parties would state what the causes of actions are, what the elements to those
causes of actions are, what the asserted defenses are, and how the information
sought is applicable to those elements or affirmative defenses. 
Neither Plaintiff nor
Defendants do as such, and this makes deciphering Plaintiff and Defendants’
arguments on relevance/irrelevance borderline incomprehensible, as they don’t
root their arguments in legal authority.
Thus, the Court is left
in the conundrum of both Plaintiff and Defendants failing to meet their burden on
each of their motions.
If the Court were to deny
all motions on this ground, then both parties are left in limbo, and this makes
no practical sense for any of the parties.
Therefore, the Court is
left to examining the requests in the deposition notice and attempting to guess
how Plaintiff believes those requests are relevant and how Defendants believe
those requests are irrelevant. 
Upon the Court’s
examination of those requests, there does not appear to be a blatantly
irrelevant request that causes the Court to think that the sought after
information is not discoverable. 
Therefore, since both
parties fail to meet their burden on their motions, the Court believes the only
practical thing to do is to revert to the standard for discovery in § 2017.010:
Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.
(CCP § 2017.010.)
Therefore, in light of
the liberal discovery standard, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s three motions to
compel the deposition testimony/production of documents and DENIES Defendants’
three motions to quash/protective order.
To the extent that the
responses to the requests in the deposition notice were objected to, those
objections were boilerplate, and to the extent that the objections asserted a
claim of privilege/work product doctrine, the objections were not code-compliant
with CCP § 2031.240.
Plaintiff also sought
sanctions for his motions to compel under 2025.450(g)(1) in the amount of
$1,710.00.
“If a motion under subdivision
(a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)
The Court will hear
argument as to Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
The Court DENIES
Defendants’ requests for sanctions on all three motions since Defendants’
motions were unavailing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 