 Case Number:  23VECV02875    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE
OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



RACHEL
  WADDY, an
  individual,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
general motors
  financial company, inc., and does 1 through
  10, 
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 23VECV02875
 
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO AMEND ANSWER TO COMPLAINT
 
 



 


 
I.        INTRODUCTION
          This case stems from Plaintiff Rachel
Waddy’s (“Plaintiff”) claim against General Motors Financial Company, Inc.
(“Defendant”), alleging breach of contract, violations of multiple provisions
under the Business & Professions Codes[1],
violation of Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, as well as several
tort claims. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant agreed to finance her purchase of
a 2015 Ford Focus (“Vehicle”), and when she was unable to make payments due to
the COVID-19 Pandemic, Defendant offered her a financial hardship program, postponing
the monthly payments for six months. Despite this agreement, Plaintiff further claims
that Defendant repossessed the Vehicle and proceeded to list it for auction. (See
Complaint ¶¶ 6-17.)          
II.      PROCEDURAL HISTORY
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint alleging
(1) Violation of Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; (2) Conversion; (3)
Violation of California Commercial Code Section 9609; (4) Trespass to Chattels;
(5) Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act (Cal. Business & Professions
Code §§ 1750 et seq.), and (6) Business & Professions Code Section 17200.
On August 2, 2023, Defendant filed its Answer. 
On March 4, 2024, Defendant filed a Substitution of
Attorney and Scott J. Hyman became the attorney of record for Defendant. 
On August 2, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
motion. 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition to this Motion.
 
III.     LEGAL STANDARD 
As a
general rule, “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect…” (Code of
Civ. Proc. § 473 (a)(1).) Additionally, the court “in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars…” (Id.) However, a
motion for leave to amend may be denied if the moving party makes “no showing
whatever that such leave should be granted ‘in furtherance of justice’ or on
any other ground.” (Waxman v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, 246
Cal. App. 2d 668, 672 (1966).) The
court may deny a motion for leave to amend an answer to a complaint when “the
proposed amended answer raised new issues of fact,” as this would
necessitate a continuance “to allow plaintiff time to investigate the factual
issues thus raised for the first time.” (Moss Estate Co. v Adler, 41
Cal. 2d 581, 585 (1953).) Finally, under the Rules of Court “[a] failure to
oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.” (Rules
of Ct., rule 8.54 (c).)
IV.     ANALYSIS
          Defendant
properly asserts in its Memorandum of Points and Authorities that the proposed
amendment will not prejudice the Plaintiff and is in the interest of justice. Defendant’s
proposed amended answer seeks to add a single affirmative defense under Bus.
& Prof. Code §7507.13(b). Unlike Moss Estate where the court denied
the defendant’s motion to amend their answer due to new factual issues that
would have delayed the trial, the affirmative defense in this case does not
present new facts. (Moss Estate, 41 Cal. 2d 581, 585.) Plaintiff alleges
in her Complaint that the repossession of the Vehicle was conducted by
“Lightning Recovery.” (See Complaint ¶ 12). Additionally, in its
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Defendant argues it did not repossess the
Vehicle, but that “Lightning Recovery” did. (See Defendant’s Memorandum
of Points and Authorities). Since both parties apparently agree the
repossession was carried out by Lightning Recovery, no further discovery or
investigation is necessary, and the trial schedule, including the discovery
cut-off date, does not need to be altered. 
As stated previously,
California Rules of Court Rule 8.54 (c) states that when a motion is unopposed
it “may be deemed a consent to the granting of
the motion.” (Rules of Ct., rule 8.54 (c).) Given that Plaintiff has not filed an opposition in this matter, rule
8.54(c) provides the court with additional grounds to grant Defendant’s motion,
as the absence of opposition can be interpreted as implied consent. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing analysis, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion for Leave Amend
Answer to Complaint. Defendant shall file and serve its Proposed Amended Answer
on or before September 26, 2024.
IT IS
SO ORDERED.
DATED:      September
25, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 
 


