 Case Number:  24VECV02739    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



Patrick kennedy, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
  AUTHORITY; MATTHEW BARRIENTOS; JORGE MARTINEZ; and DOES 1 through 30,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV02739
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY’S
  DEMURRER WITH LEAVE TO AMEND AND DENYING LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
  TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 



 
I.        INTRODUCTION
This case
arises out of a personal injury dispute between Plaintiff Patrick Kennedy (“Plaintiff”),
and Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”),
Matthew Barrientos (“Barrientos”), and Jorge Martinez (“Martinez”). In its
Complaint, Plaintiff alleges two causes of action which include (1) Damages for
personal injuries against public entities and employees and (2) intentional
tort. (See Complaint, pg. 4, 6) The first cause of action alleges multiple
injuries and damages as a direct and proximate result of the negligence,
carelessness, and unlawful conduct of Defendants. (See
id., pg.5: 1-3.) The second cause of action alleges that
Defendants, with the intent to harm or offend Plaintiff, willfully touched him
without his consent, causing harm and that a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s
position would have been offended by the same. (See id., pg.6.) 
LACMTA now
seeks to demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire Complaint for being uncertain and
devoid of fact such that LACMTA is not able to respond. 
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On June 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed its Complaint, alleging (1) Damages for personal injuries
against public entities and employees against LACMTA and (2) intentional tort
against Does 1–5. 
On August 9,
2024, LACMTA filed the instant demurrer with motion to strike.
Plaintiff has
not filed an Opposition to either. Nor has Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service
as to the other two named defendants.
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
A.       Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (See Code of Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v.
California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007
(citation omitted); see also Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed
to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally
construed. (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (See
Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)  
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App. 3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (See Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d
868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
B.      Motion
to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id. at § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a
proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(a).)
“Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or
despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the
rights or safety of others. (See Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights. (See id.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (See id.)
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to
support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (See
Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
To succeed on a motion to strike
punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that
the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (See Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.) The mere allegation
an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive
damages. (See Grieves v.
Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
IV.     MEET AND CONFER
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a),
emphasis added.) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the
results of the meet and confer process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
          In their
declaration, LACMTA attests to their effort to meet and confer with Plaintiff
through correspondence regarding the Complaint’s deficiencies. (See Demurrer,
pg. 6; 10-11.) LACMTA made three attempts by contacting Plaintiff’s Counsel to discuss
the deficiencies and request an amended complaint. (See id.,
16-17.)  Plaintiff did not respond to
either attempt or file an amended complaint. (See id., 13-14, 17-18,
21-22.) The failure to meet and confer is mitigated by Plaintiff’s counsel’s
failure to respond in any way to Defendant’s attempts. The Court will rule on
Defendant’s Motion in the interest of judicial efficiency. However, the Court
cautions Plaintiff’s counsel this Court expects strict compliance with all meet and confer
requirements going forward and that failure to comply may subject Plaintiff
and/or his counsel to sanctions as appropriate.
V.       ANALYSIS  
LACMTA
appears to be demurring to both causes of action. However, Plaintiff only
alleges its first cause of action against LACMTA. Therefore, the Court will only
address the demurrer as to that cause of action. The Court will then address LACMTA’s
Motion to Strike (“Motion”). 
A.            
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action Is
Defectively Pled.
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is entitled “Damages for
personal injuries against public entities and employees,” but the substance of
the allegations lead this Court to conclude Plaintiff intends to allege negligence
against LACMTA. 
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are
duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) “Everyone is responsible,
not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has,
willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1714(a).)
Here, LACMTA
argues Plaintiff’s Complaint is devoid of fact and fails to specifically plead any
elements of any of the causes of action Plaintiff claims against LACMTA. (See
Demurrer, p. 4:4-5.) Plaintiff’s Complaint, LACMTA argues, does not provide
the reasons that give rise to liability and therefore fails to provide facts
that demonstrate the alleged wrongful acts by LACMTA. (See id., 6-9.)
LACMTA argues that the confusing nature of the Complaint deems them unable to
determine the facts of the incident, the claims that are being brought, or of
their liability. (See id., 11-13.) LACMTA further argues because of this
they are unable to understand what it is being sued for, it cannot determine
which issues need to be admitted or denied, and therefore cannot provide an
appropriate response. (See id., 13-15.)
The
Court agrees with LACMTA, albeit not entirely. Although Plaintiff’s first cause
of action specifies the date and bus line on which he was allegedly commuting,
it does not adequately plead all of the elements of negligence. More
specifically, Plaintiff’s first cause of action does not allege LACMTA owed any
duty whatsoever to him or that it breached such duty. It simply alleges the
negligence was the “sole and proximate cause of the accident giving rise to the
action herein.” (Complaint, p. 4:25.)[2]
Plaintiff’s approach leaves his first cause of action devoid of the facts necessary
to meet even California’s liberal notice pleading standard and is defectively uncertain.

Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS LACMTA’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
B.            
LACMTA’s Motion to Strike Inappropriate
Here, LACMTA seeks to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages
allegations as they are not recoverable from public entities. (See Motion
to Strike, pg. 3: 6-7.) 
The Court acknowledges that punitive damages
against public entities are expressly prohibited under California Government
Code § 818. The Court agrees that Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations
would not be recoverable from LACMTA, a public entity. However,
because the Complaint alleges two causes of action, one of which is against
LACMTA only and the other of which is entirely against Doe Defendants and
because the Court has sustained the demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first cause of
action, thereby temporarily dismissing LACMTA from the action pending Plaintiff’s
amendment, it would be inappropriate to grant the Motion because that would
deny Plaintiff the opportunity to pursue punitive damages in connection with
its second cause of action. 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages
allegations. 
VI.    
CONCLUSION
         
Based on the foregoing analysis, the Court SUSTAINS LACMTA’s Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for negligence WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
In
addition, the Court DENIES LACMTA’s Motion to
Strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations. 
The
Court grants Plaintiff leave to file his amended Complaint on or before October
18, 2024.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      September 25, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


