  Case Number:  23PSCV01975    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Vanessa
Campa’s Motion to Set Aside Default is DENIED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Billy Jaite (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
Plaintiff
and Vanessa Campa (“Defendant”) were in a relationship from approximately May
2017-April 2022. Defendant has been unemployed since November 2018. During
Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s relationship, Plaintiff grew close to Defendant’s
daughter, Victoria Isabela Fernandez (“Victoria”). Plaintiff paid Defendant’s
rent from approximately October 2017 to November 2022, in large part to ensure
Victoria would not be homeless. Throughout the years Plaintiff and Defendant
had numerous discussions about establishing a trust for Victoria’s exclusive
benefit. After Plaintiff and Defendant ended their relationship, Plaintiff made
four transfers to Defendant in November and December 2022 totaling $350,000.00,
with the mutual understanding and oral agreement that these transfers would be
put into the trust established for Victoria. Defendant has ceased all
communication with Plaintiff. Defendant is living off the monies and has failed
to establish the trust.
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendant for:
1.                 
Specific Performance of Contract
2.                 
Breach of Contract
On August 17, 2023, Defendant’s default was entered.
An Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default Judgment is set
for July 31, 2024.
Legal Standard
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473:
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . .
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
Discussion
Defendant moves the court for an order, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (b) (“Section 473(b)”), setting aside the
default entered against her, on the basis of mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court grants Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice. (Stepan
v. Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500 [“The court may take judicial
notice of its own file”].)
Merits
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s motion should be denied
pursuant to Even Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses,
LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 for failure to comply with Code of Civil
Procedure § 1008[2]
(“Section 1008”). Even Zohar held that section 1008 governs renewed
applications under section 473, subdivision (b) for relief from default based
on an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or neglect.[3]
In this case, Defendant filed her first Motion to Set Aside
Default on February 16, 2024, on the basis that she “was not validly served
with process of the Summons and did not receive actual notice she was a named
party in this matter in time to defend against the action. See Code of Civil
Procedure (‘CCP’) §§ 415.20(b) and 473(b).” (RJN, Exh. 6). While Defendant referenced only Section § 473(b) in her notice of
motion, the court noted that Defendant was primarily arguing improper service,
“which is a subdivision (d) argument. . . or possibly a lack of actual notice,
which is a Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5 argument . . .” The court, however,
also noted that “Defendant also reference[d] surprise and extrinsic fraud in on
[sic] page 4 of her motion.” The court also noted that “Defendant’s motion. . .
[was] not accompanied by any declaration whatsoever, either disavowing valid
service or setting forth facts supporting her argument based on actual notice,
surprise and extrinsic fraud” and denied the motion.
In this instant motion, it is unclear to the court whether
or not Defendant seeks mandatory Section § 473(b)
relief pursuant to attorney affidavit of fault.[4] “[W]hen
faced with a motion for relief under section 473, the trial court does not have
to consider the availability of relief under the mandatory provision unless
such relief is requested in an appropriate manner.” (Luri v. Greenwald
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1126). Regardless, even if requested appropriately
in this case and made pursuant to an attorney affidavit of fault, Borthwick’s
declaration fails to state that Defendant’s default was entered as a result of
his “mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”
The record reflects that Plaintiff’s request for entry of
default was rejected on August 14, 2023 as premature. On August 17, 2023,
Defendant’s default was entered. (RJN, Exh, 3). On August 21, 2023, Defendant
purported to file her answer. (Id., Exh. 4.) Borthwick’s declaration
is silent with respect to the August 17-21, 2023 time period and why Defendant’s
answer was not timely filed. Borthwick instead focuses on his conduct after Defendant’s
default had already been entered. Accordingly, even if Defendant did not
have to adhere to Section § 1008 requirements on the basis that Defendant first
sought discretionary Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) relief and now seeks
mandatory relief pursuant to that same section[5], the
motion is denied on this basis.
Finally, Defendant’s initial motion referenced extrinsic
fraud (and mistake). (See RJN Exh. 6, 4:8). Defendant’s reliance upon this
ground again in her instant motion warrants compliance with Section § 1008 requirements, which Defendant has not done.
The motion is denied.


