 Case Number:  23CHCV02536    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/6/24     Case    Name: Victor Sonora v. County of Los Angeles     Case    # 23CHCV02536      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 6, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02536    Motion  filed: 2/5/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant County of Los Angeles RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order sustaining Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   TENTATIVE  RULING: The Demurrer  is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.   BACKGROUND   On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff Victor Sonora (“Plaintiff”)  initiated this action against Defendant Carl Warren & Company LLC, seeking  damages for personal injuries and property damages resulting from an accident  in which Plaintiff’s vehicle encountered a road hazard.    On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed his operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”), wherein Defendant County of Los Angeles  (“Defendant”) was substituted in as the sole Defendant.   On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to  the FAC.   No opposition has been received.   ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10  provides, in pertinent part, that "[t]he party against whom a complaint …  has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in section 430.30,  to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: … (e) [t]he  pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action."   The function of a demurrer is to test  the legal sufficiency of a complaint, but not the truthfulness  of the allegations. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  Any defects to Plaintiff’s complaint must be present on the face of its  pleadings or apparent on the face of items properly judicially noticed. (Code  of Civil Procedure § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985)  39 Cal. 3d 311, 318 (Kirwan).) Concerning the legal sufficiency of a  pleading, the sole issue on demurrer is whether the facts pleaded, if true,  state a valid cause of action - i.e., if the complaint pleads facts that  would entitle the plaintiff to relief. (Limandri  v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.)               A general demurrer admits the truth  of all factual material allegations properly pleaded in the  challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of proof. (Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.  3d at 318.) Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff's allegations  must be accepted  as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del  E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials  Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) Nevertheless, this rule  does not apply to allegations  expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits  to the complaint,  or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Vance  v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates  (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) A general demurrer does not  admit contentions, deductions,  or conclusions of fact, or law alleged in the complaint, facts impossible in  law, or allegations  contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Kirwan,  at 318.) A.     All Procedural  Requirements Are Met    1.       Meet and Confer   Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 subdivision (a)  provides, in relevant part, that “ Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this  chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or  by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to  demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached  that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” “The demurring party shall file  and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The  means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed  the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an  agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the  party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet  and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and  confer in good faith.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).) Here, Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) states that he  engaged in a met and confer with Plaintiff both telephonically and via email on  January 10, 2024. (Gordon Decl., ¶ 2.) During this exchange, Counsel explained  to Plaintiff the reasons for Defendant’s belief that the FAC is legally  defective. (Ibid.) Furthermore, Counsel requested a response to his  email correspondence; however, Plaintiff did not respond, and the parties were  unable to resolve the objections raised in the instant demurrer. (Id., ¶  3.)   Based on this declaration, the Court finds that Defendant  has satisfied the meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41 subdivision (a).   2.       Timeliness of  the Demurrer “A person against whom  a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after service  of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or  cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40, subd. (a).) Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 subdivision (a)(2)  provides, “If the parties  are not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive  pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day  extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and  serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration  stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer  was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.  The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was  previously due, and the demurring party shall not be subject to default during  the period of the extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court  order upon a showing of good cause.”   Here, Defendant asserts that it was personally served with  the FAC on December 18, 2023 (Dem., at 2), which sets the deadline for any  responsive pleading, including demur, as January 17, 2024, in accordance with  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.40, subdivision (a). Subsequently, a meet  and confer occurred on January 10, 2024 (Gordon Decl., ¶ 2), which is at least  5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due. Consequently, per Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.41 subdivision (a)(2), Defendant is entitled to  an automatic 30-day extension to file a responsive pleading, due to its  code-compliant declaration that states a good faith attempt to meet and confer.  (Gordon Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) As a result, Defendant has an extended deadline to file  its Demurrer is February 16, 2024.   The instant Demurrer was filed on February 5, 2023, which is  before the extended, making the Demurrer timely filed.      3.       Service of Unrepresented Party   Unless  they expressly consent to service by email, unrepresented litigants must be  served by personal or substitute service or by mail. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§  1010.6, subd. (c), 1011, subd. (b).)   Here,  Defendant’s proof of service indicates that the service was made on February 5,  2024, via mail through overnight delivery. Therefore, Defendant’s service is  code-compliant.               Accordingly, given that Defendant  has met all procedural requirements, the Court proceeds to examine the merits  of the instant Demurrer.    B.     Demurrer     Code  of Civil Procedure section 425.10 subdivision (a) paragraph (1) provides, “A  complaint or cross-compliant shall contain both of the following: (1) A  statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and  concise language.” (Underlines added.)   “A  complaint will be upheld ‘so long as the pleading gives notice of the issues  sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.’ [Citation]” (Doe v. City of  Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-550.)   Defendant  asserts that Plaintiff’s FAC fails to state sufficient facts to establish a  sole cause of action for motor vehicle liability. (FAC, at 3.) Specifically,  Defendant argues that the FAC lacks any facts regarding the underlying  incident, including the date, location, and individuals involved. (Dem., at  3-4.)               Upon reviewing Plaintiff’s FAC, the  Court agrees that it lacks factual allegations or reasons for any specific  statutory liability of a government entity, such as Defendant in the present  case. Furthermore, the case records do not show any other pleading papers that  Plaintiff might have served upon Defendant, since no proof of service has been  filed by Plaintiff for the Court’s consideration.               Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the  Demurrer with leave to amend.   CONCLUSION   Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH  LEAVE TO AMEND.   Plaintiff is ordered to file a Second Amended Complaint  within 30 days.   Moving party is ordered to provide notice of this order.  