 Case Number:  23CHCV01975    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49     Date:    3/6/24     Case    Name: Joyce Elaine Bertoldo and her GAL Geoffrey A. Bertoldo v. Atria    Management Company, LLC et al.     Case    # 23CHCV01975      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 6, 2024    EX PARTE MOTION FOR TRIAL  PREFERENCE (C.C.P. § 36)  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01975    Motion  filed: 9/13/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Joyce Elaine Bertoldo (“Plaintiff”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Artia Management Company  (“Defendant” or “Artia”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting trial preference on an ex parte basis and appointing Plaintiff’s  son, Plaintiff Geoffrey A. Bertoldo, as Guardian ad Litem (“GAL”)   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   On July 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Joyce Elaine Bertoldo (“Joyce”),  by and through her GAL, Geoffrey A. Bertoldo (“Geoffrey”), and Geoffrey  initiated the present action against Defendants Atria Management Company, LLC  (“Artia”); ARHC SCSCLCA01 TRS, LLC, dba Atria Senior Living Santa Clarita, and  Does 1 – 40.   On January 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed operative First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”), alleging against all Defendants the following causes of  action: (1) Statutory Elder Abuse/Negligent; and (2) Negligence. The FAC  alleges that Defendants violated multiple Heath and Safety Code sections by  acting negligently and recklessly, causing Plaintiff Joyce injuries during her  residence in Defendants’ senior living facility.   On September 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion (the “Motion”). Defendant Atria filed  its Opposition on the same day. Subsequently, on October 13, 2023, Plaintiffs  replied.     ANALYSIS   “A party seeking to advance, specially  set, or reset a case for trial must make this request by noticed motion or  ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division.” “The  request may be granted only upon an affirmative showing by the moving party of  good cause based on a declaration served and filed with the motion or  application.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1335) Code of Civil Procedure (C.C.P.) section  36 subdivision (a) provides: “[a] party to a  civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a  preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the  following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action  as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is  necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”               Here,  Plaintiff Joyce has a substantial interest in the action as a whole as she is  the sole party that allegedly sustained personal injuries. (Blozan Decl., ¶ 4.)  Moreover, Joyce is 94 years old. (Mot., at 4.) Furthermore, Joyce suffers from  her declining health condition. (Mot., at 2.)                          Considering  the moving Plaintiff’s substantial interest int he action, and her age and  health condition, the Court determines that she has satisfied the statutory  requirements under C.C.P. section 36.               Defendant  Atria contends that an ex parte application for the instant motion is  procedurally improper, arguing that C.C.P. section 36 should not be interpreted  as authorizing an ex parte application for an order.                 Although  the Court observes that C.C.P. section 36 is silent on the question of ex parte  application, when viewed in conjunction with California Rules of Court rule  3.1335, it is clear to the Court that ex parte application “seeking to advance,  specially set, or rest a case for trial” is authorized, provided there is  showing of good cause by the moving party.                The Court  finds that good cause exists. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Motion is  GRANTED.     CONCLUSION   Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Motion for Trial Preference under  C.C.P. section 36 is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to provide notice of this order.  