 Case Number:  23AHCV00014    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER CONTINUING THE HEARING ON DEFENDANT CITY OF PASADENA’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION I.        INTRODUCTION
          This is an action arising from a trip and fall incident on
a sidewalk raised by the growth of a nearby tree. On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff
Houry Sevani (“Plaintiff”) sustained a fractured hand and wrist among other
injuries due to this fall. 
          On January 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendant
City of Pasadena (“Defendant”) for the following two causes of action: (1)
negligence under Gov. Code §§ 815.2, 820; and (2) dangerous condition of public
property under Gov. Code § 835. 
          On February 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative first
amended complaint removing the first cause of action for negligence. 
          On March 27, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint
against Street Retail West, 6 L.P., a limited partnership (“Cross-Defendant”),
and ROES 1 to 20, inclusive, for three causes of action: (1) indemnity; (2)
apportionment of fault; and (3) declaratory relief.  
          On May 15, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.
Defendant moves for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication in
its favor and against Plaintiff. 
          On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed four discovery motions,
moving the Court to compel Cross-Defendant’s discovery responses. (07/08/24
Minute Order at p. 2.) On July 8, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motions to compel Cross-Defendant to produce responses to
set one of Plaintiff’s form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
request for production of documents. (07/08/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) The Court
deemed as moot Plaintiff’s motion to deem set one of Plaintiff’s request for
admissions as admitted. (07/08/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) The Court ordered
Cross-Defendant to provide code-compliant responses within 21 days of the
Court’s order. (07/08/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) 
          On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a noticed Motion for
Continuance of the Hearing on Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in
the alternative, Summary Adjudication, which is labeled as an opposition in
eCourt. Plaintiff’s motion is made on the grounds that essential evidence may
exist but cannot be presented in time for the presently scheduled hearing. A
party opposing a motion for summary judgment can request that the trial court
“either continue the hearing on the summary judgment motion or deny the motion
to permit the opposing party to obtain the necessary discovery.” (Roman v.
BRE Properties, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1040, 1056.) A party may
“request such order . . . either in their opposition papers or in a separate
application filed no later than their opposition papers, that the missing
discovery was required.” (Ibid.) 
          Initially, the Court notes that it cannot treat Plaintiff’s
Motion for Continuance of the Hearing on Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication as a separate noticed
motion because Plaintiff did not reserve a hearing date on such motion. However,
the Court will treat Plaintiff’s “motion” as an opposition to Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication. In essence, Plaintiff is
seeking a continuance of the hearing on Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment/adjudication. 
          Attached to Plaintiff’s “motion” is in fact a true
opposition to the motion for summary judgment, in which Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has failed to demonstrate that there are no triable issues of
material fact. Plaintiff filed a batch of documents in opposition to the motion
for summary judgment/summary adjudication. For future reference, the Court
orders Plaintiff to properly label and separately file all papers. Thus, the
Court will treat all “opposition” papers as a global opposition to the motion
for summary judgment. 
          On July 19, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion to continue, to which Plaintiff filed a reply brief on July
24, 2024. 
          On July 25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief as to its
motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication. 
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD      
 Summary judgment is appropriately granted
where it is shown that an action has no merit or that there is no defense to
the action. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(a).  
A cause of action has no
merit if one of the following exists: (1) one or more necessary element cannot
be established; (2) a defendant establishes an affirmative defense. Section
§437c(o). 
A motion for summary
judgment shall be granted where all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue of material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. Section 437c(c). 
Summary adjudication may
be granted where it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim of damages, or an issue of duty. Section 437c(f). 
 
III.     ANALYSIS
 
A.  
Summary
of the Pleading 
Plaintiff alleges that pavement and adjacent tree
where the subject incident occurred constituted a dangerous condition of public
property. (FAC, ¶ 7.) 
 
B.    Evidentiary
Objections
The
Court OVERRULES Defendant’s evidentiary objections numbers 1 and 2 to 
Plaintiff’s evidence
submitted in opposition to the motion and OVERRULES Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 to the evidence submitted in support of the
motion. Both parties’ evidentiary objections are procedurally deficient under
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1354 which requires that the “page, and line number
of the material objected to . . .” must be set forth in a written objection.
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354(b)(2).) Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
also violate the rule that “[a]ll written objections to evidence must be served
and filed separately from the other papers . . . in opposition to the motion.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354(b).) Here, as stated above, Plaintiff filed
numerous documents in the same filing including evidentiary objections.  
 
C.   Plaintiff’s
Request for a Continuance 
Plaintiff requests a continuance of the hearing on
Defendant’s motion on the grounds that: (1) essential evidence may exist, yet
it cannot be presented in time; and (2) Plaintiff has acted diligently. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not made the requisite showing to justify a
continuance. 
          “If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits or discovery to be had, or make any
other order as may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) “If, after
granting a continuance to allow specified additional discovery, the court
determines that the party seeking summary judgment has unreasonably failed to
allow the discovery to be conducted, the court shall grant a continuance to
permit the discovery to go forward or deny the motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (i).) A continuance
under CCP § 437c(h) is “to be liberally granted.” (Hamilton v. Orange County
Sheriff’s Dept. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 759, 765.) “[A]n opposing party can
compel a continuance of a summary judgment motion by making a declaration
meeting the requirements of section 437c, subdivision (h).” (Ibid.)  
“Where a plaintiff cannot make the showing required
under section 437c, subdivision (h), a plaintiff may seek a continuance under
the ordinary discretionary standard applied to requests for a continuance.” (Hamilton,
supra, 8 Cal.App.5th 759, 765.) “This requires a showing of good cause.”
(Ibid.) The trial court considers the following factors when assessing
whether to continue a hearing on a motion for summary judgment to permit
additional discovery: (1) how long the case has been pending; (2) how long the
requesting party had to oppose the motion; (3) whether the continuance could
have been made earlier; (4) the proximity of the trial date or the 30-day
discovery cutoff before trial; (5) any prior continuances for the same reason;
and (6) whether the evidence sought is truly essential to the motion. (Ibid.)   
          Plaintiff’s counsel, Ruben Vardanyan
(“Vardanyan”), declares that on November 13, 2023, Plaintiff served discovery
requests on Cross-Defendant seeking essential evidence related to the
ownership, control, and notice of the dangerous condition of Martin Alley where
the incident occurred. (Vardanyan Decl., ¶ 2.) None of the discovery requests
was propounded for an improper purpose. (Id., ¶ 3.) To date,
Cross-Defendant has failed to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery requests with
respect to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
production. (Id., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s motions to compel discovery with
respect to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
production were heard on July 8, 2024, and the Court granted those motions. (Id.,
¶ 6.) Plaintiff has acted diligently in pursuing discovery, including timely serving
requests and engaging in meet and confer efforts. (Id., ¶ 8.) Without
the requested discovery, Plaintiff cannot adequately oppose Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment. (Id., ¶ 10.) Should the outstanding discovery
support the City’s position, this could conceivably expedite matters.  Plaintiff requests a continuance of the
hearing on Defendant’s motion for summary judgment to allow time for
Cross-Defendant to respond to the outstanding discovery requests. (Id.,
¶ 11.) 
          The Court finds that Plaintiff has
made a showing that she does not have all the facts essential to justify her
opposition to the instant motion. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has made
a showing under CCP § 437c(h) to warrant a continuance. “The . . . inclusion of
the italicized words ‘may’ and ‘shall’ [in CCP § 437c(h)] leaves little room
for doubt that such continuances are to be liberally granted.” (Hamilton,
supra, 8 Cal.App.5th 759, 765.)  
          Even under a discretionary standard,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause for a continuance.
Plaintiff is still seeking the discovery necessary to oppose the instant
motion. This action has been pending for almost 19 months; however, Defendant
did not file the instant motion for summary judgment until roughly 16 months
into litigation. Trial in this matter is set for October 15, 2024. Plaintiff
indicates that she is still seeking discovery from Cross-Defendant pursuant to
the Court’s order compelling Cross-Defendant to provide discovery responses. Counsel
declares that such evidence is essential. (Vardanyan Decl., ¶ 2.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has made a showing that a
continuance is warranted to oppose Defendant’s motion. 
IV.     
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 Based on the foregoing, the Court CONTINUES
the hearing on Defendant City of Pasadena’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in
the alternative, Summary Adjudication to  
Friday, September 13, 2024 at
8:30 A.M. in this department, so that Plaintiff can obtain the discovery
necessary to oppose the motion. 
          Plaintiff to give notice of this order.
          
Dated:  8/1/24                                                            
                                                                               JARED
D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT