 Case Number:  24AHCV00067    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONI.        INTRODUCTION
          This is a breach of warranty action under the Song Beverly
Act arising from the lease of an automobile. Plaintiff Delia Ventura brought
this action against Defendant FCA US LLC for: (1) Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (2) Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty, and (3) Song-Beverly Act – Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d)(2).
On
June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Qualified and Request for Sanctions.
The
motion is denied as moot.
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.”
          The motion shall “(1) set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(2).)
Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.  A misuse of the discovery
process includes failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010(d).)  In addition, a court shall
impose monetary sanctions if a motion to compel a deposition is granted unless
“the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(g)(1).)
IV.     ANALYSIS
Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling the deposition of Defendant’s person most
qualified (“PMQ”) within 14 days of the hearing on the Motion, an order
compelling the production of documents described in the deposition notices, and
an order for monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,754.15.
          Plaintiff’s counsel states that on February 27, 2024,
Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s PMQ, set for April 5,
2024.  (Velarde Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)  Defendant never responded to the Deposition
Notice.  (Ibid. at ¶ 4.)  On May 23, 24, and June 2, 2024, Plaintiff
called and sent emails to Defendant to reschedule the deposition, but Defendant
never responded.  (Ibid. at ¶ 5,
Ex. 2.)
          Plaintiff states that she has not received a single
response to the Deposition Notice or attempts to meet and confer.  Moreover, Plaintiff argues that good cause
exists justifying Plaintiff’s request as the topics to be addressed are
critical to establish the elements of the Complaint’s causes of action.
Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,675 as follows: four hours of
attorney time in preparing the Motion, one hour to review the opposition, and
two hours to prepare a reply, at an hourly rate of $525 per hour, plus $79.15
for reservation fees.  (Velarde Decl. ¶
6.)
          Defendant opposes the Motion arguing that Plaintiff has not
provided any evidence demonstrating good cause to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s PMQ.  Moreover, Defendant has
already agreed to produce its PMQ for deposition on August 2, 2024.  (Brezovec Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. A)  Defendant also opposes Plaintiff’s document
demand, arguing that it has already produced a large number of documents and
Plaintiff seeks documents beyond the reasonable scope of this case.  Finally, Defendant argues that the Court
should deny Plaintiff’s request for sanctions as it has demonstrated
substantial justification through its good faith effort to comply with the
production demands and scheduling the deposition.
          In her Reply, Plaintiff states that Defendant did not agree
to a deposition date until June 24, 2024, 21 days after the instant Motion was
filed.  Plaintiff reiterates that
Defendant failed to appear at the April 2024 deposition and never responded to
Plaintiff’s three separate attempts to reschedule the deposition.
          The Court finds that there is no dispute that a deposition
has been scheduled for August 2, 2024, a day after this hearing.  The Court reminds parties that civil
discovery is intended to be a self-executing system with minimal judicial
intervention.  (See Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Ct. (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331; Clement
v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1291-1292.)  As there is no need for the Court to compel
Defendant’s PMQ’s deposition, the instant Motion is denied.
          Given
that the Motion is denied, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also denied.
V.      CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The parties have agreed to proceed with the
deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified on August 2, 2024.  For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Deposition is DENIED without prejudice.
Plaintiff
Delia Ventura is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
          
Dated:  August 1, 2024                              
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT