 Case Number:  23SMCV00580    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Giat v. Lovallo,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00580
MOTION:                  Motion
to Continue Trial
HEARING DATE:   1/9/2025
 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court (CRC), rule 3.1332(a), “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases,
the dates assigned for a trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.” Under CRC Rule 3.1332(b), “A party seeking a continuance of the date
set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
            
Under CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
“[a]lthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.  Circumstances that may
include good cause include:   
 
(1) The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
 
(2) The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
 
(3) The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
 
(4) The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
 
(5) The addition of a new party
if: 
 
(A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
 
(B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
 
(6) A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
 
(7) A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
            CRC
Rule 3.1332(d) sets forth other factors that are relevant in determining
whether to grant a continuance.”
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Sixt Rent A Car LLC moves
to continue the trial and trial-related dates to permit the parties to complete
documenting their settlement. Plaintiff does not oppose. Defendant shows good
cause for a continuance of the upcoming trial. Defendant represents that the
parties settled this action in March 2024. Defendant explains that Plaintiff’s
counsel has not yet returned the signed release document, delaying dismissal.
Defendant also notes that the parties have conducted little discovery because
of the settlement. Since Defendant represents that the action is settled, it
would be a waste of time and resources move forward with trial on the current
trial date. (Wulterin Decla., ¶ 4.) If Plaintiff seeks to renege on the
settlement, then Defendant would be allowed additional time for discovery. (Id.)
The court notes no prior trial continuance in this matter. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The currently set trial for January 13, 2025 is vacated.  The Court sets a trial setting conference on
January 30, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. All trial-related dates and deadlines, including
the discovery and motion cut-off dates, and expert discovery dates are
continued to correspond with the new trial date pursuant to code.