  Case Number:  22SMCV01124    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           WW Westwood LP
v. Zakhor, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01124
MOTION:                  Motion
for Relief from Admissions
HEARING DATE:   1/9/2025

 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.300 permits amendment or withdrawal of ‘deemed admissions’ ordered by the
court under §2033.280. CCP section 2033.300 states: 
            
(a) A party may withdraw or amend
an admission made in response to a request for admission only on leave of court
granted after notice to all parties.  
(b) The court may permit withdrawal
or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who
obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that
party's action or defense on the merits.  
(c) The court may impose conditions
on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the
following:  
(1)
An order that the party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue
additional discovery related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended
admission.  
(2)
An order that the costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in
part by the party withdrawing or amending the admission.”  
 
“Because the law strongly favors
trail and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. Accordingly, the court’s
discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances where
it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or
where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially
prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining that party’s
action or defense on the merits.” (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420-21.)
 
“A mistake of fact is when a person
understands the facts to be other than they are; a mistake of law is when a
person knows the facts as they really are but has a mistaken belief as to the
legal consequences of those facts . . . [i]nadvertence is defined as lack of
heedfulness or attentiveness, inattention, fault from negligence . . . [and]
‘excusable neglect’ referred to in the section is that neglect which might have
been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.” (Baratti
v. Baratti (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 917, 921.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Mansour Zakhor, D.D.S.
moves for an order relieving him from admissions, and permitting him to serve
responses to Plaintiff W.W. Westwood, L.P.’s (“Plaintiff”) Request for
Admissions, Set No. 1. 
 
Defendant has addressed the two issues
identified by the Court in the prior motion. First, Defendant now substantiates
his own mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect with specific facts showing
the efforts he undertook to correct counsel’s inaction. (Zakhor Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.)
Second, Defendant has provided facially code compliant responses to the
outstanding discovery. Defendant attaches proposed Responses to Requests for
Admission and Form Interrogatory no. 17. (Berokim Decl., Exs. 8-9.) 
 
Moreover, the record does not show
that Plaintiff was substantially prejudiced in maintaining the action following
the admissions or would be prejudiced by withdrawal of the admissions.
Plaintiff claims to have been “precluded from gaining specific knowledge
regarding Defendant’s defenses and positions, including factual information and
the identity of relevant documents and witnesses due to Defendant’s failure to
respond.” (Griffin Decl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff does not show mere delay in
obtaining information could be considered substantial prejudice to its action.  Plaintiff also argues that a planned motion
for summary judgment relied upon the deemed admissions.  That fact also does not establish prejudice.
 
Plaintiff requests that the court
order the following “additional discovery”: (1) a further deposition of Zakhor
by February 14, 2025; (2) supplemental and code-complaint responses to Form
Interrogatory (FI) No. 17.1 to be served concurrently with its responses to the
RFAs by January 13, 2025; and (3) an order deeming any objections to the RFAs
waived. The Court is not inclined to condition the motion on additional
discovery orders. Such orders are simply not necessary in these circumstances.
Plaintiff does not explain how Defendant’s failure to respond to the RFAs
requires an additional party deposition. As to the second request, Defendant
has already attached a proposed response to FI no. 17.1. Finally, any
objections to the RFAs have already been waived by a failure to respond
initially, and the proposed responses to the RFAs lodge no objections. Otherwise,
there is sufficient time to complete any remaining discovery in this matter by
the April 2024 discovery cut-off.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.