 Case Number:  23PSCV02790    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  G Plaintiff Jose Ines Garcia Mendoza’s Motion for Leave  to File A First Amended Complaint Respondent: Defendant General  Motors LLC TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Jose Ines Garcia Mendoza’s Motion for Leave  to File A First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jose Ines Garcia Mendoza is ordered to file the proposed First  Amended Complaint separately with the Court forthwith. BACKGROUND This  is a Song-Beverly action. In December 2022, Plaintiff Jose Ines Garcia Mendoza  allegedly entered into a warranty contract with Defendant General Motors LLC  (General Motors) by purchasing a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado. Subsequently, Garcia  Mendoza alleges the vehicle presented with serious defects including transmission, engine, emission, structural, and  electrical system defects. On September  12, 2023, Garcia Mendoza filed a complaint against General Motors and Does 1-10,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of express warranty pursuant to the  Song-Beverly Act, (2) breach of implied warranty pursuant to the Song-Beverly  Act, and (3) violation of section 1793.2, subdivision (b) of the Song-Beverly  Act. On November  19, 2024, Garcia Mendoza filed the present motion. A hearing on the present  motion is set for January 13, 2025, along with a post-mediation status  conference/trial setting conference. ANALYSIS Garcia  Mendoza seeks leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC) that alleges  additional facts regarding the subject vehicle and includes four additional  causes of action for breach of express warranty pursuant to the California  Uniform Commercial Code, breach of implied warranty pursuant to the California  Uniform Commercial Code, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing, and violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS Garcia Mendoza’s motion. Legal  Standard “A  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The  court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of  the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,  939.) “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what allegations in the  previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed  to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,  and line number, the additional allegations are located.”  (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  The declaration must also specify the amendment’s  effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting the amended  allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made earlier.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) If  the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has  prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to  amend.  (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,  resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.  (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New  York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) Discussion In this case,  Garcia  Mendoza’s counsel provides the effect of the proposed FAC is to allege  additional facts regarding the subject vehicle’s history as a dealer-owned  vehicle, in compliance with Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 17 Cal.5th  189 (Rodriguez). (Yang Decl., ¶ 6-18.) Garcia Mendoza’s counsel also states  the additional causes of action have the purpose of providing an alternative  basis for Garcia Mendoza’s standing in this action. (Yang Decl., ¶ 19-21.)  Although Garcia Mendoza’s counsel does not explicitly state why these  amendments are necessary and proper and when the supporting facts were first  discovered, it appears counsel proposed this amendment based upon the  California Supreme Court’s recent decision in Rodriguez on October 31,  2024. (Yang Decl., ¶ 7, 21.) In  opposition, General Motors argues Garcia Mendoza unjustifiably delayed because Garcia  Mendoza could have alleged the additional causes of action in the original  Complaint. (Opp., p. 4:1-5:16.) But the fact that Garcia Mendoza could have  brought these causes of action in the initial Complaint does not render the  delay to do so unreasonable or needless on its own. In fact, Garcia Mendoza did  have a legitimate reason to delay considering the pending decision in Rodriguez.  Further, the court finds such a delay does not unfairly prejudice General  Motors. While General Motors argues such prejudice exists because the proposed  amendments will require additional discovery, they fail to quantify the costs  of such additional discovery. (Opp., p. 8:1-13, 9:1-10.) To the extent General  Motors also challenges the legal viability of the proposed FAC, these arguments  are best raised in a separate motion. (Opp., p. 9:12-11:6.) Accordingly, the court GRANTS  Garcia Mendoza’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Garcia Mendoza’s motion  for leave to file a FAC is GRANTED and Garcia Mendoza is ordered  to file the proposed FAC separately with the court forthwith.