 Case Number:  24PSCV02988    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  G Defendant Karla Maria Vides Hernandez’s Demurrer to
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Soledad Urbina
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Karla Maria Vides Hernandez’s Demurrer to
Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be
determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant Karla Maria Vides Hernandez’s Counsel is also
ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiff Soledad Urbina’s Counsel regarding
the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and
confer efforts, including whether the attempts were made by telephone, video
conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days before the next
scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.¿
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for elder abuse. On September 12, 2024,
Plaintiff Soledad Urbina filed a complaint against Defendant Karla Maria Vides
Hernandez, erroneously sued as Karla Maria Videz, and Does 1-10, alleging
causes of action for (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED),
(2) negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED), and (3) elder abuse.
 
On November 12, 2024, Vides Hernandez filed the present
demurrer. A hearing on the present demurrer is set for January 13, 2025, along
with a case management conference on March 25, 2025.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Vides Hernandez demurs to Urbina’s entire Complaint. For
the following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and
confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Vides Hernandez’s counsel has provided a declaration stating counsel met and
conferred with Urbina’s counsel on October 31, 2024 by sending an extensive
meet and confer letter. (Ahluwalia Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Because a letter is not
a code-compliant means of meeting and conferring, a continuance of the hearing
on the demurrer is appropriate for parties to further meet and confer.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Vides Hernandez’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Vides Hernandez’s counsel is
also ordered to meet and confer with Urbina’s counsel regarding the present demurrer
and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts,
including whether the attempts were made by telephone, video conference, or
in person, at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing
on the demurrer.