 Case Number:  24PSCV02085    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  G Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration Respondent: Plaintiff Isidoro  Gaona Rodriguez TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration is DENIED. BACKGROUND This is a Song-Beverly  action. In May 2020, Plaintiff Isidoro Gaona Rodriguez allegedly entered into a  warranty contract with Defendant Hyundai Motor America (Hyundai) by purchasing  a 2020 Hyundai Elantra. Subsequently, Gaona Rodriguez alleges the subject vehicle  presented with serious defects in its transmission, suspension, electrical,  emission, engine and steering systems. On June 27, 2024, Gaona  Rodriguez filed a complaint against Hyundai; Puente Hills Hyundai, LLC, doing  business as Puente Hills Hyundai; and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) breach of express warranty pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act;  (2) breach of implied warranty pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act; (3) violation  of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, subdivision (b); and (4) negligent repair. On September 3, 2024, Hyundai  filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for January  13, 2025, along with a case management conference. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE Hyundai requests the court  take judicial notice of the Complaint filed in the present action. Gaona  Rodriguez requests the court take judicial notice of federal regulations and  congressional records. The court GRANTS their requests pursuant to  Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d). EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Gaona Rodriguez’s evidentiary  objections are OVERRULED. ANALYSIS Hyundai  moves to compel arbitration of Gaona  Rodriguez’s Song-Beverly claims. For  the following reasons, the court DENIES  Hyundai’s motion. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.)  The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc.  (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Hyundai argues Gaona Rodriguez’s action is subject to an arbitration provision  in the subject vehicle’s Owner’s Handbook and Warranty Information (Owner’s  Handbook). (Motion, p. 3:24-5:12.) The provision provided in relevant part as  follows: “If  you purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you  and we each agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you  and any of our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle  purchase, use of your vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations in the  warranty, or the duties contemplated under the warranty, including without  limitation claims related to the failure to conform a vehicle to warranty,  failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims for a refund or  partial refund of your vehicle's purchase price (excluding personal injury  claims), shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our  election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of law. If either you  or we elect to resolve our dispute via arbitration (as opposed to in a court of  law), such binding arbitration shall be administered by and through JAMS  Mediation, Arbitration and ADR Services (JAMS) under its Streamlined  Arbitration Rules & Procedures. . . . This agreement evidences a  transaction involving interstate commerce and shall be governed by the Federal  Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16. Judgment upon any award in arbitration may  be entered in any court having jurisdiction. IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR  VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS  BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY,  INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY  THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT  OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF  THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.” (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2, p. 13-14.) In  opposition, Gaona Rodriguez first argues Hyundai fails to establish adequate  foundation for the existence of the arbitration provision in the Owner’s  Handbook. (Opp., p. 5:22-6:28.) But to establish prima facie evidence of an  arbitration agreement, the party moving for arbitration need only provide a  copy of the arbitration provision that purports to be signed by the parties or  set forth the agreement’s terms in the motion. (Gamboa, supra, 72  Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) The moving party is not required “to follow the normal  procedures of document authentication.” (Ibid, quoting Condee v.  Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) The opposing  party “bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of  the agreement” and can do so with statements under oath. (Ibid.) If the  opposing party meets their burden, the moving party must then establish a valid  arbitration with admissible evidence by preponderance of the evidence. (Ibid.) Here,  Gaona Rodriguez fails to present sufficient evidence that challenged the authenticity of  the Owner’s Handbook at issue. While Gaona Rodriguez provided a  declaration that denies receiving any notice of the arbitration provision at  issue, Gaona Rodriguez does not deny receiving the Owner’s Handbook. (Gaona  Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 4-7.) Thus, this  argument fails. Gaona Rodriguez next argues  the arbitration provision is unenforceable because the provision (1) violates  the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (MMWA), (2) violates state provisions, and (3)  is unconscionable. These arguments are addressed below. MMWA The MMWA “permits a ‘consumer’  to bring an action for damages and other relief when a warrantor breaches its  obligations under a warranty or under the act.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corporation  of Texas (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 212, 222, citing 15 U.S.C. § 2310, subd. (d).)  It “also permits warrantors to establish ‘informal dispute settlement  procedures’ for breach of written warranty claims, and to require consumers to  resort to such procedures before bringing a civil action.” (Walton v. Rose  Mobile Homes LLC (5th Cir. 2002) 298 F.3d 470, 474 (Walton), citing 15  U.S.C. § 2310, subd. (a).) In interpreting the term “informal dispute  settlement procedures,” the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has issued  regulations that prohibit written warranties from requiring binding  arbitration. (Id., at p. 474-475, citing 16 C.F.R. § 703.5, subd. (j).) Gaona Rodriguez argues the  FTC’s interpretation should control here. (Opp., p. 8:4-10:6.) But two federal  circuit court rulings provide persuasive, though not binding, authority on the  arbitrability of warranty claims issues. The Fifth and Eleventh Circuits have  held that written warranty claims arising under the MMWA may be subject to  valid binding arbitration agreements. (Walton, supra, 298 F.3d at  p. 478-479 [holding the MMWA does not preclude binding arbitration of warranty  claims pursuant to a valid arbitration agreement and finding it improper to use  FTC regulations to determine congressional intent]; Davis v. Southern Energy  Homes, Inc. (11th Cir. 2002) 305 F.3d 1268, 1274–1280 (Davis) [holding  “written warranty claims arising under the MMWA may be subject to valid binding  arbitration agreements.”].) Here, the MMWA does not  preclude arbitration of this case. First, Gaona Rodriguez’s Complaint does not  allege causes of action pursuant to the MMWA but rather alleges violations pursuant  to California’s Song-Beverly Act. Second, the subject arbitration provision  included an opt-out clause that allowed Gaona Rodriguez the option of rejecting  the arbitration provision. (Ameripour  Decl., Ex. 2, p. 14.) Third and last, Gaona Rodriguez failed to provide the  court with any binding or controlling legal authority. Considering the strong  federal policy of favoring arbitration of disputes where, as here, a written  arbitration agreement exists, and a lack of authority disfavoring the  arbitration of warranty claims, the court finds Gaona Rodriguez failed to  establish that the MMWA applies or precludes arbitration here. State Law Provisions Gaona Rodriguez next contends  California law prohibits a manufacturer from relying on an arbitration clause  that is surreptitiously inserted into a warranty manual. (Opp., p. 10:8-12:6.) In  support of this contention, Gaona Rodriguez cites Norcia v. Samsung  Telecommunications America, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 845 F.3d 1279 (Norcia).  There, the Ninth Circuit held an arbitration provision in a warranty brochure was  unenforceable as the consumer’s silence in failing to opt-out of the provision  did not constitute assent pursuant to California contract law. (Id., at  p. 1290.) It has long been the rule in  California that silence or failure to act is generally insufficient to convey  acceptance of an offer. (See Leslie v. Brown Bros. Incorporation (1929)  208 Cal. 606, 621; Golden Eagle Ins. Co. v. Foremost Ins. Co. (1993) 20  Cal.App.4th 1372, 1385 (Golden Eagle).) Notwithstanding this general  rule, “[a]cceptance of an offer may be inferred from inaction in the face of a  duty to act, [Citations], and from retention of the benefit offered  [Citations].” (Golden Eagle, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th at p. 1386.) In  Norcia, the Ninth Circuit applied these rules in noting there was no  evidence the consumer expressly assented to the arbitration provision contained  in the warranty brochure. (Norcia, supra, 845 F.3d at p. 1285-1285.)  The court also noted the consumer did not “sign the brochure or otherwise act  in a manner that would show ‘his intent to use his silence, or failure to opt  out, as a means of accepting the arbitration agreement.’” (Ibid.,  quoting Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, 468, overruled  on other grounds in Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014)  59 Cal.4th 348, 366.) Here, there is also no  evidence of Gaona Rodriguez signing the arbitration provision at issue  or even acknowledging receipt of the Owner’s Handbook in which the arbitration  provision was included. In reply, while Hyundai fails to explicitly address Norcia,  Hyundai does appear to address the issue by contending mutual assent exists.  Specifically, Hyundai contends Gaona Rodriguez assented to the terms of the  arbitration provision by accepting the benefits of Hyundai’s warranty. (Reply,  p. 2:17-3:4.) Hyundai also contends Gaona Rodriguez is estopped from asserting  a lack of assent as Gaona Rodriguez is trying to enforce the other provisions  of the warranty agreement. (Reply, p. 3:5-4:13.) These contentions fail,  however, as they do not appreciate “the difference between California warranty  law and contract law, which are governed by different sets of rules.” (Id.,  at p. 1288.) “A seller is bound by any express warranties given to the buyer,  including statements in written warranty agreements, advertisements, oral  representations, or presentations of samples or models.” (Ibid.) Although  written warranties are “‘contractual’ in the sense that it creates binding,  legal obligations on the seller, [Citation], . . . a warranty does not impose  binding obligations on the buyer.” (Ibid.) And the fact that a consumer  must satisfy certain conditions before enforcing a warranty “is not equivalent  to a freestanding obligation that limits a buyer’s rights outside of the scope  of warranty itself.” (Ibid.) In this case, because Gaona  Rodriguez was not required to accept Hyundai’s warranties to make them binding,  there was no “acceptance of a benefit” that can serve as Gaona Rodriguez’s  assent to the terms of the arbitration provision. Furthermore, as in Norcia,  the benefits of Hyundai’s warranty applied regardless of whether Gaona  Rodriguez opted out of the arbitration provision. (Id., at p. 1286.) Thus,  the court  finds the enforceability of  the arbitration provision fails for lack of assent. Accordingly,  the court DENIES Hyundai’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Hyundai’s  motion to compel arbitration of Gaona Rodriguez’s Song-Beverly action is DENIED.