  Case Number:  19PSCV00880    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  G Defendant M. Zha’s Motion to Set Aside Default and  Amended Default Judgment Respondent: Plaintiffs Tony  To Chong Loo, Cui Ping Loo, Danny Weising Loo, and William Loo TENTATIVE RULING Defendant M. Zha’s Motion to Set Aside Default and  Amended Default Judgment is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  is a consolidated action to quiet title. Plaintiffs Tony To Chong Loo, Cui Ping  Loo, Danny Weising Loo, and William Loo allege that Defendant Zixi Li acted in  concert with others to use the Loos’ names to forge, present, and notarize  false powers of attorney and deeds of trust to obtain loans. On  October 2, 2019, the Loos, with the exception of William Loo, filed a complaint  alleging the following causes of action against Li, LC Equity Group (LC  Equity), Ress Financial Corporation (Ress Financial), First American Title  Company (First American), Weishi Xie, Agnes N. Nwapa-Jourdan, all persons known  and unknown, and Does 1-25: (1) declaratory relief, (2) cancellation of  instruments, (3) slander of title, (4) quiet title, and (5) unjust enrichment.  Subsequently, the following Defendants were added to the action: Sunwest Trust  FBO David W. Free (Free Trust); Steven Goldenberg; Michael J. Tannenbaum;  Oxnard Street, LLC (Oxnard Street); ZVI Gutentag and Michael Gutentag, Trustees  of the Gutentag Family Trust (Gutentag Trust); Sunwest Trust FBO Joseph Davis  (Davis Trust); Eyal Gutentag and Diane Gutentag, Trustees of the Gutentag  Revocable Trust, Dated June 4, 2019 (2019 Gutentag Trust); The Bernard  Rothschild Pension Plan, by and through Bernard Rothschild and James Bernard  Rothshild as Trustees (Rothschild Pension Plan); Summit Capital LLC (Summit),  and CDG Investments, LLC (CDG). On  December 5, 2019, Tannenbaum filed a cross-complaint against Li, Xie, and Roes  1-20, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnity, (2) contribution, (3)  intentional misrepresentation, (4) concealment, and (5) negligence of a notary  public. On the same day, the Davis Trust, Goldenberg, the 2019 Gutentag Trust,  the Free Trust, the Gutentag Trust, Oxnard Street, CDG, and LC Equity filed a  cross-complaint against the same defendants and alleging the same causes of  action. On  October 2, 2019, William Loo filed a verified complaint alleging the following  causes of action against Li, M. Zha, Nwapa-Jourdan, Summit, the Rothschild  Pension Plan, JMR Investments (JMR), Does 1-25, and all persons unknown,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) declaratory relief, (2)  cancellation of instruments, (3) slander of title, (4) quiet title, and (5)  unjust enrichment. On  December 5, 2019, Summit and the Rothschild Pension Plan filed a  cross-complaint against Li, Zha, and Roes 1-20 for (1) indemnity, (2)  contribution, (3) fraud by intentional misrepresentation, (4) fraud by  concealment, and (5) negligence of a notary public. On  June 7, 2023, the separate actions by the Loos and William Loo were  consolidated into the present action. On  May 23, 2024, the court entered a judgment in favor of the Loos against Xie,  Zha, Li, and Nwapa-Jourdan. On June 28, 2024, the court granted the Loos’  motion for the award of attorney fees. On November 12, 2024, Zha  filed the present motion. A hearing on Zha’s motion is set for January 13,  2025. A hearing on a motion to amend judgment is set for January 14, 2025, and  a hearing on a motion to quash service of summons is set for January 21, 2025. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE Zha and the Loos’ requests  for the court to take judicial notice of its own records are GRANTED. ANALYSIS Zha  moves to set aside the entry of default and default judgment against Zha pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure sections 473, subdivision (d); 473.5; and 473,  subdivision (b), as well as the doctrine of extrinsic mistake. For  the following reasons, the court GRANTS Zha’s motion. Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subd. (d) Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), “The court may . . .  on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void  judgment or order.” “[A] default judgment entered against a defendant who was  not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Dill  v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) Thus,  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), “the court  may set aside a default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as a  matter of law, due to improper service.” (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94  Cal.App.4th 540, 544.) Here,  the Loos filed a proof of service on January 31, 2020, that stated Zha was  served with substitute service on January 22, 2020. (Zha RJN, Ex. 2.)¿The proof  of service states the Loos’ process server served Zha through Dominic Mestas, a  co-occupant at Zha’s home address on Cork Tree Drive in Orange. (Zha RJN, Ex.  2.) The Loos’ process server had previously attempted to serve Zha twelve (12) times  at this address without success. (Zha RJN, Ex. 2.) In arguing this service was  improper and void, Zha claims the Cork Tree address was not Zha’s dwelling  house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address  at the time of service. (Motion, p. 7:9-16.) In support of this argument, Zha provided  a declaration in which Zha denies receiving actual notice of the present action  until Zha was served with an amended judgment. (Zha Decl., ¶ 2-5.) Starting in  November 2019, Zha moved to and began residing at a property on Oval Road in  Irvine after separating from Zha’s husband in September 2019. (Zha Decl., ¶ 6.) In  opposition, the Loos argue Zha’s declaration is self-serving and lacks any  supporting exhibits. (Opp., p. 1:6-12, 3:14-15.) After failing to serve Zha at an  address in San Gabriel, the Loos’ counsel and process server discovered Zha was  married to Dominic Mestas and decided to serve Zha at the Cork Tree address  where Mestas resided. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 2-7; Ratliff Decl., ¶ 2-5.) When the  Loos’ process server purportedly served Zha through Mestas, Mestas had  identified himself as Zha’s co-occupant. (Ratliff Decl., ¶ 7.) Although Mestas’  statement contradicts Zha’s statement with regards to whether Zha lived at the  Cork Tree address, Zha’s statement is made in a sworn declaration while Mestas’  statement is unsworn hearsay. Furthermore, Zha provided a supplemental declaration  with supporting exhibits. Zha has provided a lease agreement for the Oval Road  property that lists Zha as the tenant with a start date of November 23, 2019.  (Suppl. Zha Decl., Ex. A.) Zha has also provided copies of emails that show  Zha’s mailing address as the Oval Road property. (Suppl. Zha Decl., Ex. B.)  They include an email from the Skin Store on November 30, 2019; the Hut Group  on December 2, 2019; and USCIS on January 9, 2020. Based  on Zha’s testimony and supporting evidence provided, the court finds Zha’s  dwelling house and usual place of abode was the Oval Road address and not the  Cork Tree address when the Loos’ process server attempted service in January  2020. As a result, Zha was not properly served and any resulting entry of  default and default judgment are void. In  opposition, the Loos argue the present motion is untimely because Zha did not  diligently bring the present motion upon learning of the default. (Opp., p. 15:8-16:5.)  But the Loos fails to demonstrate how Zha lacked adequate diligence when Zha  filed this motion in November 2024 after receiving notice of the present action  for the first time in September 2024. (Zha Decl., ¶ 11-12.) The Loos also argue  Zha has unclean hands because Zha has avoided service. (Opp., p. 16:8-23.) But  the only evidence the Loos provide of such alleged avoidance is Zha’s failure  to respond to other parties’ service attempts at the Oval Road address. (Opp.,  p. 3:16-4:2.) It is unclear how Zha can avoid the Loos’ attempts to serve Zha  when the Loos never attempted service at the correct address in the first  place. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Zha’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Zha’s  motion to set aside the entry of default and default judgment is GRANTED.  The court intends to set a Further Case  Management Conference and an OSC re: Proof of Service as to Zha at the hearing  on January 13, 2025.