 Case Number:  24PSCV01896    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  G Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Binding  Arbitration is GRANTED.  The case is  STAYED pending completion of binding arbitration.  BACKGROUND This  is a Song-Beverly action. In March 2023, Plaintiff Francisco Naranjo-Zendejas allegedly  entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Tesla, Inc. (Tesla) by purchasing  a 2023 Tesla Model Y. Subsequently, Naranjo-Zendejas alleges the vehicle  presented with exterior and body  component defects, drivetrain system defects, and other serious nonconformities  to warranty. On June  12, 2024, Naranjo-Zendejas filed a complaint against Tesla and Does 1-10,  alleging (1) breach of express warranty pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act, (2)  breach of implied warranty pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act, and (3) violation of  section 1793.2, subdivision (b) of the Song-Beverly Act. On July  18, 2024, Tesla filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is  set for January 13, 2025, along with a case management conference. ANALYSIS Tesla  moves to compel Naranjo-Zendejas to binding arbitration pursuant to an  arbitration agreement. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Tesla’s  motion. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.)  The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting rulings  on common issues.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties  8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the court’s role  “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists  and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia  Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840,  quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th  Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Tesla argues the present action is subject to an arbitration  provision that was included in an order agreement and a sale contract.  According to Tesla, when Naranjo-Zendejas placed an order for the subject vehicle on January  30, 2023, Naranjo-Zendejas agreed to the terms of a Motor Vehicle Order Agreement. (Kim Decl., ¶  3.) The third page of the order agreement included an agreement to arbitrate  which stated as follows in relevant part: “If  not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or  relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be  decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration  administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer  Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as  claims related to statements about our products.” (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) The  agreement also allows individual disputes to be heard in small claims court and  gave Naranjo-Zendejas the option to opt out of  the arbitration provision within thirty days of signing the order agreement.  (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) When Naranjo-Zendejas took delivery of the subject vehicle on March 12,  2023, Naranjo-Zendejas executed a Retail  Installment Sale Contract that included a similar arbitration provision. (Kim  Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2, p. 5.) Subsequently, Tesla states Naranjo-Zendejas failed to opt out of the  arbitration provision in the order agreement. (Kim Decl., ¶ 7.) Based on the  provisions of the first arbitration agreement, the present action is subject to  binding arbitration as Naranjo-Zendejas’s lemon law claims arise out of Naranjo-Zendejas’s  relationship with Tesla. Furthermore, Naranjo-Zendejas has failed to file any  timely opposition to this motion. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Tesla’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Tesla’s motion to compel  arbitration is GRANTED.  The case  is STAYED pending completion of binding arbitration. 