  Case Number:  22STCV39004    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV39004




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Michael Draz




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Bobs LLC



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Michael Draz (“Draz”) moves to compel Plaintiff Bobs LLC (“Bobs”)
to arbitrate Bobs’ claims arising from a promissory note to guaranty payments
on a loan made for a construction project. 
Bobs opposes the motion and Draz replies.
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            In connection with the Motion, Draz
requests the Court take judicial notice of the following:
 
·        
Exhibit 1 – Complaint filed on November 19, 2021
by Bobs in Case No. 21SMCP00658 (“First Case”)
 
·        
Exhibit 2 – Stipulation to Arbitration, executed
February 28, 2022 in the First Case
 
·        
Exhibit 3 – Claimants’ Amended Arbitration
Demand, dated April 1, 2022, filed in JAMS Reference No. 52200000567
(“Arbitration”)
 
·        
Exhibit 4 – Amended Counterclaim, dated January
30, 2023 filed in Arbitration
 
·        
Exhibit 5 – Second Amended Counterclaim, dated
Jun 27, 2023 filed in Arbitration
 
The
exhibits are all authenticated by the attorney declaration of Andrew V. Jablon.
 
Similarly, in connection with its Opposition, Bobs requests the Court
take judicial notice of the following:
 
·        
Exhibit A – The Complaint in this action
 
·        
Exhibit B – Request for Dismissal of the Fifth
Cause of Action by Bobs in the First Case
 
·        
Exhibit C – Notice of Withdrawal of Claim of the
Fifth Cause of Action by Bobs in Arbitration
 
·        
Exhibit D – Notice of Withdrawal of Claim of the
Fifth Cause of Action by Barry Shy in Arbitration.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Therefore, the Court may take judicial notice of Exhibits 1, 2, A, and B.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of Exhibits 1, 2, A, and B as a
court record, but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
Records from arbitration
proceedings are slightly different from court records, in that arbitration
proceedings are generally private, whereas court records are generally
public.  Nonetheless, courts have held
that documents filed in arbitration proceedings are capable of immediate
verification by the relevant arbitration provider.  (See, e.g., Walnut Producers of California
v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 650, fn. 6.)  Moreover, the authenticity of these documents
does not appear to be in question. 
Neither party has objected to the other party’s request for judicial
notice of these documents, and both parties rely upon filings made in the
Arbitration proceeding in their own briefing.
 
Therefore, the Court grants
the parties’ requests for judicial notice, and takes judicial notice of all the
requested documents, but not of the truth of the matters asserted therein.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On November 19, 2021, Bobs, and
three others, brought suit against Draz, and various entities, in related
matter No. 21SMCP00658 (“First Case”), alleging that Draz and a plaintiff in
the first case, Barry Shy, formed BHABC LLC for the purpose of developing (and
ultimately selling for profit) two real estate properties located in Beverly
Hills.  (RJN Ex. 1 at ¶¶ 1, 15.)  Bobs is a private lender that funded the
development costs.  (RJN Ex. 1 at ¶
16.)  
 
On March 2, 2022, the parties to the First Case agreed to stay the
First Case and arbitrate “the issues in the Compliant [sic]” and “pursuant to
terms of the agreements at issue in the dispute.”  (RJN Ex. 2 at p. 2.)  The allegations in the First Case complaint
include allegations that Bobs loaned BHABC $1.635 Million and Draz executed a
guaranty on the loan.  (RJN Ex. 1 at ¶¶
62-66.)  The complaint in the First Case
also seeks a writ of mandate requiring Draz to produce the signed copy of a
guaranty of the loan agreement.  (See RJN
Ex. 1 at p. 29-30 – “Fifth Cause of Action.”)
 
On April 1, 2022, plaintiffs amended their claim in arbitration.  The Amended Arbitration Demand included a
claim by Bobs for writ of mandate requiring Draz to produce and/or sign the
guaranty.  (RJN Ex. 3.)  
 
            On December 15, 2022, Bobs filed a
complaint in this case against Draz and BHABC LLC only (and Does 1-10), for
breach of contract (promissory note), breach of contract (guaranty) and common
counts.  (RJN Ex. A)
 
On January 30, 2023, Defendant (and the other cross-claimants) filed
an Amended Counter Claim in Arbitration, seeking, among other things,
cancellation of the guaranty.  (RJN Ex.
4.)  
            
On June 15, 2023, Bobs withdrew its only claim in Arbitration (for the
fifth cause of action for writ of mandate requiring Draz to produce a signed
copy of the guaranty).  (RJN Ex. C.)  On July 13, Barry Shy also withdrew his claim
for the fifth cause of action in Arbitration.  (RJN Ex. D.)  On July 19, 2023, Bobs requested dismissal
without prejudice of the fifth cause of action in the first case.  (RJN Ex. B.) 
Bobs’ dismissal was granted the next day.  (Ibid.)  
 
The same day, on July 19, Draz filed a Notice of Related Case in the
First Case.  On July 24, 2023, plaintiff
Barry Shy requested dismissal of the fifth cause of action, which was granted
on July 26.  Also on July 24, plaintiffs
to the First Case objected to and opposed the Notice of Related Case, on the
basis that Bobs, having dismissed his fifth cause of action against Draz, was
no longer a party to the case, and therefore the cases did not involve the same
parties.  On July 25, 2023, the Court
related the cases.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.     
SCOPE OF ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
 
The parties agree that there exists a valid stipulation to arbitrate
the “dispute” in the First Case.  (See
Motion at 6:11-14; Opp. at 2:5-3:4.)  Bobs
argues that the stipulation to arbitrate does not cover the claims at issue in
this case because (1) Draz’s breach of the loan agreement was not previously
raised in any forum, and therefore is not encompassed by the stipulation; and (2)
the stipulation to arbitrate “no longer binds Bobs” to arbitration because Bobs
dismissed all the claims it raised in the First Action, both in the First Case
and in the Arbitration.
 
Bobs relies on Cardiff Equities, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 1541, 1549-1550 in support of its arguments.  In Cardiff, the parties entered into
two contracts: one to form a limited partnership for the purpose developing
real estate, and two, a personal guaranty to repay the investment in the
limited partnership.  The first agreement
contained an arbitration clause, whereas the guaranty agreement did not.
 
Cardiff sued for breach of both of the agreements.  O’Neel moved to compel arbitration, which was
granted.  Cardiff moved to file an
amended complaint that asserted only those causes of action arising from the
guaranty agreement (that were not subject to arbitration). Before the motion to
amend was heard, and before arbitration had commenced, Cardiff dismissed the
action without prejudice and then filed a new lawsuit, with a complaint that
matched the proposed amended complaint in the first action.  
 
The two cases were then related, and O’Neel moved to stay the second
case, pending the arbitration proceeding, which the court granted.  The Court of Appeal reversed, on the basis
that Cardiff’s dismissal of the first action deprived the court of jurisdiction
to stay the second action on the basis of an arbitration order in the first
case.
 
The Court of Appeal emphasized that O’Neel had the absolute right to
abandon the arbitrable claims and pursue only those claims that were not
arbitrable, and therefore the stay, which was an attempt to force O’Neel to
arbitrate, was inappropriate.
 
The Court agrees with Bobs that Cardiff controls here.  The first action is primarily a dispute among
joint real estate business venturers who agreed to arbitrate their dispute in
accordance with the arbitration agreements in the various LLC agreements.  As part of that dispute, third party lender,
Bobs, joined Barry Shy, one of the joint venturers, in alleging a writ claim against
Draz to have Draz either produce the signed guaranty or to sign the guaranty, on
the loan from Bobs.  Although Bobs is not
a party to any of the underlying LLC agreements, and therefore not subject to
any of the arbitration agreements contained therein, Bobs agreed to move that writ
claim to the arbitration proceeding.  
 
Bobs and Shy have since dismissed or requested dismissal of the writ
claim in both the court and arbitration proceedings.  Draz argues, however, that this case is
distinguishable from Cardiff because of the fact that Draz asserted a
cross-claim against Bobs in the arbitration proceeding for declaratory relief
to cancel the guaranty as fraudulent before Bobs and Shy dismissed their writ
claim.
 
In general, while a plaintiff has a right to abandon pursuit of the
claims it has against a defendant, it cannot escape a defendant’s cross-claims
against it by dismissing its own claims. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (i) [“No dismissal of an action may
be made or entered, or both, under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) where
affirmative relief has been sought by the cross-complaint of a
defendant[….]])  This is because “a
cross-pleading creates an action distinct and separate from an initial pleading”
so “[d]ismissal of the complaint, […] does not affect the independent existence
of the cross-complaint or counterclaim.” 
(Bertero v. National General Corp. (1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 52.)  
 
However, “arbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be
required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to
submit.”  (Knutsson v. KTLA, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130.) 
Moreover, “[u]nless the parties clearly and unmistakably provide
otherwise, the question of whether the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be
decided by the court, not the arbitrator.” 
(Ibid.)
 
By the language of the stipulation, Bobs agreed to arbitrate the
“dispute” as defined by the allegations in the complaint.  In relevant part, in support of Bob’s claim
for Draz to produce the guaranty, the complaint alleged:  
 
·        
62.            On
or about May 20, 2020, BOBS, LLC as Lender, and BHM as Borrower entered into a
Loan Agreement in the sum of $2 Million. 
The Loan Agreement was signed on behalf of BHM by Michael Draz, Member
of Vacation in Paradise, as a Member of Beverly Hills Mansion LLC.  Among other things, the Loan Agreement States
that:

The Note shall be further secured by a Continuing Guaranty executed and
delivered to Lender concurrent with loan documents and executed by Michael
Draz, an Individual and Eric Shy, an Individual; per the terms and conditions
contained therein.
 
·        
64.            On
or about May 20, 2020, BOBS, LLC as Lender, and BHABC as Borrower entered into
a Loan Agreement in the sum of $1.635 Million. 
The BHABC Loan Agreement was signed on behalf of BHABC by Michael Draz.  Among other things, the BHABC Loan Agreement
states that:

The Note shall be further secured by a Continuing Guaranty executed and
delivered to Lender concurrent with loan documents and executed by Michael
Draz, an Individual and Amit Tidhar, Trustee of the BR Shy Irrevocable Trust[]
per the terms and conditions contained therein….
 
·        
“Thus, a live and actual controversy exists
between and among BHM, BHABC, BOBS, LLC, Draz, Vacation in Paradise, Amit
Tidhar as Trustee of the BR Shy Irrevocable Trust, and Shy concerning the
repayment of BHM’s loan from BOBS in the sum of $2 Million, under which
Vacation in Paradise and Draz will owe $2 Million, and concerning the repayment
of BHABC’s loan from BOBS in the sum of $1.635 Million, under which Vacation in
Paradise and Draz will owe $1.635 Million.
 
(RJN
Ex. 1, ¶¶ 62, 64, 66.)  Exhibit A to the
Complaint in this case evidences the $1.635 Million Loan Agreement between Bobs
and BHABC.
 
The scope of the dispute Bobs agreed to arbitrate, simply involved a
writ for Draz to produce a copy of the guaranty on the loans.  But Draz’s cross-claim to cancel the guaranty
for fraud exceeds the scope of the original “dispute.”  Unless Bobs agrees to arbitrate that issue,
which it appears Bobs does not, that claim is not properly arbitrable, and must
be brought in a court proceeding instead. 
Therefore, Bobs is not bound to the arbitration proceedings by way of
the cross-claim Draz asserted in arbitration. 
Similarly, the stipulation to arbitrate the writ also does not cover
Bobs’ claims for breach of the loan agreement, and breach of the guaranty,
which ripened after the stipulation was entered.  (See Opp. at p. 2:15-20.)  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Draz’s motion to compel Bobs’ claims to arbitration.  Moreover, to the extent Draz seeks to assert
a cross-claim against Bobs to cancel the guaranty, such claim exceeds the scope
of the stipulation to arbitrate, and is therefore properly brought in a court
proceeding.    
 
Draz shall give notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service of such.
 
 
DATED:  October 3, 2023                                          ___________________________
                                                                                                Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV39004




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Michael Draz




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Bobs LLC



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Michael Draz (“Defendant” or “Draz”) demurs to Plaintiff
Bobs LLC (“Plaintiff” or “Bobs”) entire complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (c), on the basis that there is another
action pending between the parties on the same, or related causes of
action.  
 
Draz also demurs to Bobs’ third cause of action for failure to state a
cause of action under Code of Civil Procedure 430.10, subdivision (e), and for
uncertainty under subdivision (f). 
 
Bobs opposes the demurrer and Draz replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
ANOTHER
ACTION PENDING
 
“The pendency of another
earlier action growing out of the same transaction and between the same parties
is a ground for abatement of the second action.”  (Leadford v. Leadford (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 571, 574.)  “To abate a
subsequently filed action it must appear (1) that the causes of action and the
issues in the two suits are substantially the same and (2) it is between the
same parties as the former action and that these parties stand in the same
relative position as plaintiff and defendant.” 
(Adolph v. Municipal Court of Los Angeles Judicial Dist. (1960)
181 Cal.App.2d 198, 201.)
 
Draz argues that because this
case was already deemed related to 21SMCP00658, which is currently in
arbitration proceedings, this case must be dismissed and Bobs must bring its
claims in the arbitration proceedings. 
The Court disagrees.
 
As explained in the Court’s
decision with respect to Draz’s motion to compel arbitration, although Bobs was
a party to the prior case and arbitration proceeding at the time the cases were
deemed related, because Bobs since dismissed its claim against Draz in the
prior case and in the arbitration proceedings, it is no longer a party to
either of those proceedings.  That Draz
has asserted a cross-claim against Bobs in the pending arbitration proceedings
that exceeds the scope of the parties’ stipulation to arbitrate does not bind
Bobs to the arbitration.  Thus, there is
currently no valid claim as to Bobs in either of those other proceedings.  
 
At the time the two cases were
previously deemed related, they involved two common parties (Bobs and
Draz).  The cases now involve one common
party (Draz).  The cases do involve the
same series of transactions or occurrences – the earlier case involved Bobs
seeking a writ for Draz to produce a copy of the signed guaranty, and this case
involves Draz’s alleged subsequent breach of the loan
agreement and guaranty.  However, the primary focus of the claims in the
arbitration proceeding is the breakdown, declaration of rights, and division of
assets and liabilities among the various parties to the LLC agreements, which
contain arbitration clauses.  By
contrast, this case focuses on Draz’s alleged breach of the loan agreement and
guaranty to lender Bobs (a nonparty to those LLC agreements) that Draz allegedly
executed on behalf of one of the LLC entities. 
Moreover, the causes of action Bobs now raises against Draz did not
ripen until after the parties stipulated to arbitrate the dispute in the first
case.  
 
Thus, the claims in this case
do not involve the same parties, as Bobs is no longer a party to 21SMCP00658 or
the arbitration proceedings, nor do they involve the same or substantially
identical issues of fact or law.
 
The Court therefore overrules
Draz’s demurrer to the entire complaint.
 
B.    
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v.
Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, the allegations in the complaint is not so vague or uncertain
that Draz cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what claims are directed against him. 

 
Therefore, the court overrules the demurrer to the third cause of
action on the ground of uncertainty.  
  
C.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
In the alternative, Defendant
argues that the complaint fails to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (e), as to the third cause of
action for common counts because (1) plaintiff cannot recover on a
quasi-contract theory where a contract exists between the parties; (2) the
common counts are demurrable because the other causes of action are demurrable;
and (3) the common counts are inconsistent with the allegations.  
 
With respect to Defendant’s
first argument, at the pleadings stage, a party may “plead in the alternative
and make inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)  Thus, the fact that Bobs has pled
inconsistent causes of action for breach of the loan agreement and, in the
alternative, common counts, is not a basis to sustain a demurrer.
 
With respect to Defendant’s
second argument, the Court overrules the demurrer to the other causes of action
on the basis that another action was pending, and Defendant has not demurred to
the other causes of action on any other basis.
 
As for Defendant’s third
argument, the third cause of action for common counts seeks (1) “money
had and received by defendant for the use and benefit of plaintiff;” (2) “money
lent by plaintiff to defendant at defendant’s request;” and “money paid, laid
out, and expended to or for defendant at defendant’s special instance and
request.”    
 
“A cause of action is stated
for money had and received if the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a
certain sum ‘for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the
plaintiff.”  (Gutierrez v. Girardi
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 937.)  This
cause of action “lies wherever one person has received money which belongs to
another, and which in equity and good conscience should be paid over to the
latter.”  (Ibid.)  Because the “money lent” common count
contemplates money that has been lent and not repaid, proof of a loan of money
will generally not support a count for money had and received.  (Jones v. Re-Mine Oil Co. (1941) 47
Cal.App.2d 832, 843.)
 
With respect to the common
count for “money had and received,” Draz argues that because Plaintiff alleges
it lent money to BHABC, there is no allegation that it disbursed the funds to Draz.  The complaint alleges that Bobs lent money to
BHABC, and BHABC failed to repay the loan. 
(Complaint ¶¶ BC-1 and BC-2.)   
 
As set forth in the Third
Cause of Action, the Court finds Draz’s contention to be incorrect.  Bobs has alleged the requisite ultimate facts
against Draz to withstand scrutiny at the pleading stage:   Draz became indebted to Bobs within the last
four years “for money had and received by defendant,” which includes Draz, “for
the use and benefit of plaintiff,” for money lent by plaintiff to defendant at
defendant’s request, and “for money paid, laid out, and expended to or for
defendant at defendant’s special instance.” 
(See Complaint, Third Cause of Action.) [1]
 
Furthermore, the loan
agreement attached to the complaint shows that Draz signed the loan agreement
on behalf of BHABC.  Thus, the common
count for money had and received plausibly alleges that Bobs disbursed the
funds meant for BHABC to Draz.  Moreover,
because the allegations indicate the loaned money was intended for BHABC, the
allegations support a cause of action for “money had and received” as to Draz,
notwithstanding that a loan is involved.
 
Draz also argues that the
“money lent” and “money paid” common counts “are simply inconsistent with the
allegation that Defendant was merely a guarantor of a loan made to BHABC
LLC[.]”  (Demurrer at p. 10:21-25.)  To the contrary, because Draz signed the loan
agreement on behalf of BHABC, the allegations support an inference that Draz
was more involved and not “merely a guarantor” of the loan.  
 
Therefore the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Draz’s demurrer to the complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Draz to file and serve an answer to the
complaint on or before November 1, 2023. 

 
Further, the Court sets a Case Management Conference on December 15,
2023 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All
parties and counsel shall comply with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722,
et seq. regarding Initial and Further Case Management Conferences.  In particular, all parties shall adhere to
the Duty to Meet and Confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and
file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725). 

 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s orders.
 
 
DATED:  October 4, 2023                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


