 Case Number:  23SMCV02781    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 4, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02781




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Santa Monica Police Department




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Hunter Nation aka Milo Senaca



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Hunter Nation aka Milo Senaca (“Plaintiff”) alleges the
Santa Monica Police Department (“Defendant”) committed an intentional tort by
failing to maintain the emergency phone system along Santa Monica beach,
causing him emotional distress.  (See
Complaint.)  
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint for uncertainty and failure to state
a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f), on the bases that (1) Plaintiff failed to first
present his claim to the City of Santa Monica as required by Government Code
section 945.6; (2) as a public entity, Defendant is not liable for any injury
unless such liability is imposed by statute, pursuant to Government Code
section 815; (3) Defendant is immune from liability under Government Code
sections 818.2 and 845; and (4) Plaintiff has failed to allege extreme or
outrageous conduct to support his claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  Defendant also moves to strike
the punitive damages claims.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer,[1]
and Defendant has replied.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
            Here, Defendant contends that it has
previously discussed the relevant issues with Plaintiff by email and by
telephone on numerous occasions in connection with another case Plaintiff
previously filed and dismissed against it pertaining to the same incident.  (Demurrer at p. 2:1-16; Brown Decl. ¶¶
1-8.)  Defendant also contends that it
emailed Plaintiff the bases for its demurrer in this case, and that Plaintiff
responded, refusing to correct the deficiencies Defendant identified.  (Brown Decl. ¶¶ 4-9 and Exs. B-F
thereto.)  Defendant has further
indicated that Plaintiff has repeatedly called Defendant by telephone, and that
those resulting conversations have been unproductive, and at times crude and
harassing, resulting in Defendant requesting that all communications with
Plaintiff be in writing.  (Ibid.)  
 
            The Court finds that under the
circumstances presented, Defendant has met its meet and confer obligations
prior to filing its demurrer and motion to strike.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
PRIOR DISMISSAL WITH PREJUDICE
 
Although the Defendant has not directly argued the issue of mootness
as a result of the prior dismissal with prejudice as one of the bases for its
demurrer, the Court finds that the briefing raises a threshold issue concerning
the justiciability of this matter.  (See
Demurrer at p. 5:22-24 [“At best, he alleges direct negligence, which is not
recoverable against a public entity (Gov. Code. 815) and which is moot since he
already filed a dismissal with prejudice alleging the same facts in the first
lawsuit against the City.”])
 
“In its narrowest form, res judicata precludes parties or their
privies from relitigating a cause of action finally resolved in a prior
proceeding.”   (Smith v. ExxonMobil Oil Corp. (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1407, 1413–1414 [cleaned up].) 
“But res judicata also includes a broader principle, commonly termed
collateral estoppel, under which an issue necessarily decided in prior
litigation may be conclusively determined as against the parties thereto or
their privies ... in a subsequent lawsuit on a different cause of action.”  (Id. at p. 1414.)  “Thus, res judicata does not merely bar
relitigation of identical claims or causes of action.  Instead, in its collateral estoppel aspect,
the doctrine may also preclude a party to prior litigation from redisputing
issues therein decided against him, even when those issues bear on different
claims raised in a later case.”  (Ibid.)
 
For the purposes of applying the doctrine of res judicata, “a
dismissal with prejudice is the equivalent of a final judgment on the
merits[.]”  (Boeken v. Philip Morris
USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 793.) 
Thus, “[A] dismissal with prejudice ... bars any future action on the
same subject matter.”  (Ibid.)  “Dismissal with prejudice is determinative of
the issues in the action and precludes the dismissing party from litigating
those issues again.”  (Torrey Pines
Bank v. Superior Court (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 813, 820.)  
 
On its own motion, the Court takes judicial notice of the filings made
in case number 23SMCV01811 as court records, pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d).  In that case, on
April 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a similar case against Defendant, alleging
Defendant committed “General Negligence” due to “No or irregular maintenance of
the Emergency Kiosk near 1200 Arizona (a beach bathroom)” and as a result “it
was not of resource during a sexual assault (Exhibit A – Report 230036132).”  (See Case no. 23SMCV01811.)  On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff requested a
dismissal of that case with prejudice, which the clerk granted on June 23,
2023.  
 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed this case against Defendant,
alleging Defendant committed an “Intentional Tort” stemming from Defendant’s
failure to maintain the emergency phone system along the Santa Monica
beach.  Plaintiff alleges, “The police
department utilizes emergency phones in public locations” (Complaint ¶ IT-1)
and “As indicated by the emergency phone present on the beach, the Santa Monica
Police Delartment [sic] has a duty to maintain the system by any means.  This was breached, resulting in distress as
no emergency services were able to arrive the night of the incident.”  (Complaint at p. 2:13-16.)
 
Thus, the same issue of Defendant’s alleged failure to maintain the
emergency phone kiosk system along Santa Monica beach, causing it to be
inoperable on the night Plaintiff alleges he was sexually assaulted, was
already raised and dismissed with prejudice in case number 23SMCV01811.  As such, Plaintiff is collaterally estopped
from relitigating the same issue in this subsequent case, notwithstanding that
Plaintiff changed the theory of liability from one of negligence to an
intentional tort. 
 
As such, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer for failure to state
a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (e), on the basis that Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from
relitigating issues already dismissed with prejudice in the prior case, (case
number 23SMCV01811.)
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not provided the Court with
any proposed amendment.  Moreover, because
Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from relitigating the issue of Defendant’s
alleged failure to maintain the emergency phone kiosk system along Santa Monica
beach, there are no facts Plaintiff could add to the complaint to cure this
deficiency.  Therefore, the Court
sustains the demurrer to the complaint without leave to amend.[2]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint
without leave to amend.  
 
Plaintiff shall file the opposition to the demurrer so that the case
record is complete.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 
DATED:  October 4, 2023                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


