  Case Number:  22SMCV01213    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 18, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01213




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Iranian Jewish Senior Center (erroneously sued
  as “Beverly Hills Loving Care”)




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Kamran Setareh (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Iraj Kanani
(Kanani) and Iranian Jewish Senior Center[1] (“IJSC”)
for intentional infliction of emotional distress, civil assault, civil battery,
and elder abuse, on the basis of a verbal and physical altercation that
occurred on IJSC’s premises on April 26, 2021, while Plaintiff was visiting his
father at IJSC.  
 
IJSC seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s brother, Mehrdad Setareh, on the basis that they are guarantors on
an outstanding balance owed related to their mother’s residence at the facility
from April 16, 2019 to December 15, 2020. 
The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party against whom a cause
of action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a
cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)
 
IJSC has not demonstrated that Plaintiff’s and Mehrdad Setareh’s guaranty
on their mother’s account balance stemming from her residency at the facility from
2019-2020 “arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences” as the verbal and physical altercation that
allegedly occurred against Plaintiff on IJSC’s premises in 2021 while Plaintiff
was visiting his father.  Nor has IJSC
demonstrated that the source of its claims for breach of guaranty, open book
account, or account stated are “the subject of the cause brought against” it in
this action.  
 
Thus, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, IJSC’s
proposed unrelated cross-claims against Mehrdad Setareh, a nonparty to the
existing action, are procedurally improper.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies IJSC’s motion for leave to
file the proposed cross-complaint in this action.  
 
Defendant IJSC shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 


