  Case Number:  22STCV32849    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  39 Marvin Kay v.
Gregory A. Yates, et al.
Case No.
22STCV32849
Motion for
Reconsideration of Court’s Decision to Grant 
Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
            Plaintiff
Marvin Kay (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Gregory A. Yates and his practice,
asserting causes of action for breach of contract and conversion.  Plaintiff alleges that there was a referral
agreement which entitled Plaintiff to fees relating to Mr. Yates’ work on
behalf of the plaintiff in Case Number BC661807, who is Mr. Anthony
Miramontes.  Plaintiff alleges that Mr.
Yates did not pay him a share of the fees for one of the settlements, the “Lime
Grove settlement.”  Yates argues that
this settlement was not covered by the parties’ referral agreement.  
 
Plaintiff alleges as follows in
the operative complaint:  
 
Edward Steinbrecher
(“Steinbrecher”) was an attorney who maintained a practice, Edward
Steinbrecher, P.C. (the “practice”). (Complaint, ¶ 1.)  Steinbrecher passed away, and in May 2019,
the probate court appointed Plaintiff to be the practice administrator for the
practice. (Ibid.) At the time of his death, Steinbrecher was handling a
personal injury case on behalf of the plaintiff: Anthony Miramontes v. United
Parcel Services, Inc., et al., Case No. BC661807 (the “Miramontes case”).
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) Prior to his death, Steinbrecher had spent approximately
4,000 hours on the case. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) 
 
Plaintiff and Gregory A. Yates,
Esq. negotiated an agreement under which Yates would handle the Miramontes
case, and Plaintiff would be paid a portion of the attorney’s fees earned by
Yates. (Complaint, ¶ 14 & Exh. B.) Specifically, the agreement included “a
sliding scale” up to the agreed upon value of Steinbrecher’s work, which was $4
million (based upon the 4,000 hours at a rate of $1,000 per hour). (Complaint,
¶¶ 14-15.) The agreement was signed by Plaintiff and Yates on June 12 and June
13, 2019, respectively. (Complaint, Exh. B.) Yates executed an addendum to this
agreement on June 14, 2019, with his client, as required by California Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.5.1. (Complaint, Exh. D.) Plaintiff did not sign
this agreement. (See ibid.) 
 
Yates then recruited Steve
Vartazarian, Esq. to work on the case. The client—Anthony Miramontes—signed the
fee splitting agreement on August 26, 2019. (Complaint, Exh. E.) Both Yates and
Vartazarian signed the fee splitting agreement under rule 1.5.1, on September
4, 2019. (Ibid.) The client signed this agreement, but Plaintiff did not sign
this agreement. (Ibid.)  Plaintiff
alleges that the Miramontes case settled, and that both Yates and Vartazarian
received portions of the settlement proceeds, but they did not pay Plaintiff
the required attorney’s fees. (Complaint, ¶¶ 19-25.)
 
            On
September 26, 2023, the Court granted Defendants Steve Vartazarian and his
practice’s motion for judgment on the pleadings because Yates, not Vartazarian,
signed the contract with Plaintiff.  (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated September 26, 2023.)  The Court denied leave to amend, finding that
“no amendment would be successful,” dismissing the Vartazarian defendants with
prejudice.  The Court denied the motion
with respect to Gregory A. Yates and his practice (collectively, “Defendants”).  (Ibid.) 
 
            The
petition to approve the Lime Grove settlement was sealed, so Plaintiff sought access
to this sealed document.  At a hearing on
November 6, 2023, the Court considered Plaintiff’s need for the information
versus the settling parties’ privacy interests and bifurcated
discovery/dispositive motions to address this issue.  Specifically, the Court ruled as follows: 
 
“The parties
will first take discovery on the issue of whether the Lime Grove settlement
falls within the scope of the parties’ agreement, e.g., whether Mr. Yates
worked on the case, whether the Lime Grove portion of the case falls within the
parties’ agreement, etc.  In other words,
the first phase of discovery—‘Phase One’—will address every issue not dependent
upon the amount of the Lime Grove settlement and Mr. Yates’s fee for the Lime
Grove settlement.  The Court will then
hear the motion for summary judgment/adjudication.  If the motion is denied, the parties will
then take discovery on the remaining issue—‘Phase Two’—which is whether Mr.
Yates’ fee for his work on the Lime Grove settlement reaches the necessary threshold
of the parties’ agreement and how much of this fee should be paid to
Plaintiff.  If the case reaches Phase
Two, the Court will determine at that point whether, and to what extent,
Plaintiff’s counsel is entitled to information about the Lime Grove settlement
amount and the attorneys’ fees.  The
Court believes that bifurcation is the most equitable way to balance
Plaintiff’s need for the information with the settling parties’ interest in
confidentiality, as Plaintiff would not be able to access the confidential
information unless and until it is clear it is necessary.”
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated November 6, 2023.)  Plaintiff’s counsel sought access to the
petition to approve the Lime Grove settlement, which was sealed, and the Court
ordered disclosure of sufficient information to resolve the issues in Phase
One.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated
November 14, 2023.)
 
            The Court
anticipated that the parties would litigate the dispositive issues: Whether Mr.
Yates worked Mr. Miramontes’s cases and, if so, whether “the Lime Grove portion
of the case falls within the parties’ agreement.”  If not, Plaintiff has no causes of action for
breach of contract and conversion.  Inexplicably,
the parties were back before the Court litigating issues relating to Phase
Two.  Defendants filed a motion for
summary adjudication, arguing that the payment Yates received from Vartazarian
is not a “specific sum capable of identification,” entitling Defendants to
summary adjudication of the conversion claim. 
Understandably, Plaintiff’s counsel sought to continue the hearing on
Defendants’ motion to conduct discovery on this issue.
 
            The Court ordered
that it only intends to consider Defendants’ motion for summary judgment/adjudication
with respect to the issues in Phase One: Whether Mr. Yates worked on the Lime
Grove settlement; whether the Lime Grove settlement was part of his referral
agreement with Plaintiff; whether the referral agreement is valid, etc.  However, in the process of reviewing that
issue, the Court concluded that it may have erred in granting Steve Vartazarian
and his practice’s motion for judgment on the pleadings with respect to the
cause of action for conversion. 
Vartazarian did not sign the referral agreement, which was the basis of
the Court’s decision to grant the motion. 
However, in Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, they represent that
Vartazarian handled the Lime Grove settlement and received the settlement
proceeds, and Vartazarian then paid Yates pursuant to their fee splitting
agreement.  (See Defendants’ Memorandum
of Points and Authorities, p. 31:15-32:1.) 
If Vartazarian did so knowing that Plaintiff was entitled to a portion
of those funds, Vartazarian may be liable for conversion.  
            
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court noticed its own motion for reconsideration whether it
should vacate its order of September 26, 2023, and issue a new and different
order denying Vartazarian and his practice’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings on the conversion claim.  (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated January 23, 2024.) 
The Court has inherent authority to reconsider any of its rulings.  (Le Francois
v. Goel
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1103.)  The Court
provided written notice and set a new briefing schedule.  
 
            The
elements of conversion are as follows: (1) The plaintiff’s ownership or right
to possession of the property; (2) The defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act
or disposition of property rights; and (3) Damages.  (See Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2013) 223
Cal.App.4th 202, 208.)  “[T]he
simple failure to pay money owed does not constitute conversion.” (Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284.) However, there are
exceptions to this principle. “A cause of action for conversion of money can be
stated only where a defendant interferes with the plaintiff’s possessory
interest in a specific, identifiable sum, such as when a trustee or agent
misappropriates the money entrusted to him.” (Ibid.) “California cases
permitting an action for conversion of money typically involve those who have
misappropriate, commingled, or misapplied specific funds held for the benefit
of others.” (Ibid., citations omitted.)  Specifically,
an attorney may assert a cause of action for conversion for unpaid legal fees
if there is “a specific sum capable of identification” and there was a lien
created by a written agreement.  (See
Weiss v. Marcus (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 590, 598-599.)  
 
            If the
Vartazarian defendants received the Lime Grove settlement proceeds, and kept
some of the funds and paid Yates the rest of the funds, while having actual or
constructive knowledge that Plaintiff was entitled to those funds, Plaintiff may
have a claim for conversion against the Vartazarian defendants.  But the dispositive issue is whether the
Vartazarian defendants had actual or constructive knowledge that Plaintiff was
entitled to those funds, i.e., Whether the Vartazarian defendants knew the
details of Yates’ referral agreement with Plaintiff; whether the Lime Grove
settlement was part of Yates’ referral agreement with Plaintiff and the Vartazarian
defendants knew; whether the referral agreement is valid and the Vartazarian
defendants knew; etc.  The complaint does
not allege sufficient facts to demonstrate that the Vartazarian defendants had
actual or constructive knowledge of the relevant details, so the Court was
correct in granting the Vartazarian defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court rules as follows:
 
            1.         The Court’s motion for reconsideration
is granted in part and denied in part.  
 
            2.         The Court did not err in granting the Vartazarian
defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings, so the motion for
reconsideration is denied in this respect.
 
            3.         However, the Court erred in denying
leave to amend and dismissing the Vartazarian defendants with prejudice.  In theory, Plaintiff might be able to allege additional
facts that would cure the defects. 
Therefore, the motion for reconsideration is granted only insofar as the
Court grants leave to amend with respect to the conversion claim (not the
breach of contract claim) and converts the dismissal with prejudice to a
dismissal without prejudice.  
 
            4.         The Court authorizes Plaintiff’s
counsel to file an amended complaint with a cause of action for conversion
against the Vartazarian defendants, supported by additional facts, within
thirty (30) days.
 
            5.         The Yates defendants need not re-file
their motion for summary judgment.  The
Court will construe that motion as addressing any first amended complaint.  However, the Vartazarian defendants may file their
own joinder to the Yates defendants’ motion for summary judgment and their own motion
for summary judgment to address any independent issues.  
 
            6.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
   
 
            
 
            
 