  Case Number:  20STCV24195    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Larry Waldie,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV24195




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September 26, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for New Trial;
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict
Moving Party: Plaintiff Larry Waldie 
Responding Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL IS
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT
NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
BACKGROUND
On September 15, 2020, Plaintiff Larry Waldie
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendant County of Los
Angeles, asserting one cause of action for whistleblower retaliation. Plaintiff
served as a Lieutenant in the Los Angeles Sherriff’s Department and was the
operations Lieutenant of Compton Station. Plaintiff alleges that he was denied
a promotion and transfer for expressing opposition to the actions of an
allegedly criminal gang within LASD, known as The Executioners. Plaintiff alleges
that he refused the request of a leader of the Executioners to promote a
certain officer. In response, the officers instituted a “work slowdown.”
Plaintiff alleges he reported this to a superior and was denied promotion and
transfer because of the report.
On June 2, 2023, the jury found in favor of
Defendant. The jury determined that Plaintiff had made a complaint of unlawful
activity, but this complaint did not contribute to any adverse employment
action.
ANALYSIS
 
A. Motion for New Trial
 
“The principal statutory authority for
new trial motions is CCP § 657. “The right to a new trial is purely
statutory, and a motion for a new trial can be granted only on one of the
grounds enumerated in the statute.” (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961)
55 Cal.2d 162, 166.)  The grounds
enumerated in CCP § 657 include:
 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party,
or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was
prevented from having a fair trial.
 
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors
have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding
on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the
determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any
one of the jurors.
 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against.
 
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial.
 
5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
 
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.
 
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party
making the application.
 
(CCP § 657.)
 
Plaintiff moves for new trial on the
ground that the “weight of evidence” establishes Plaintiff suffered adverse
employment actions and that Defendant caused those adverse actions in
retaliation for Plaintiff’s complaint of unlawful activity. Plaintiff asserts that
the evidence shows Defendant knew of Plaintiff’s complaint and retaliated by
refusing to promote Plaintiff, consider him for promotion, or transfer him to a
specialized unit. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that
substantial evidence shows the Captain position went to someone more qualified.
Defendant also says there was evidence that the decisionmakers did not know
about Plaintiff’s complaint when they made the decisions not promote Plaintiff
and not to transfer Plaintiff. Specifically, Defendant contends there is no
evidence Commander Thatcher, to whom Plaintiff complained, repeated the
complaint to any decisionmaker. 
 
There was substantial evidence at trial
that that the decisions to select the most qualified applicants for interviews
and to promote one of those candidates to Captain of the Compton station were not
based on or impacted by any whistleblower complaint made by Plaintiff. There
also was substantial evidence that the Department’s decisions concerning
transfers of Plaintiff were not motivated by any such complaint. This is
sufficient to support the jury’s finding that Plaintiff’s complaint did not
contribute to any adverse employment actions.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for new trial is
DENIED.
 
B. Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding
the Verdict
 
The trial court has limited discretion to
grant a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict; it may grant it only
when there is no substantial evidence to support the verdict. (Teitel v.
First Los Angeles Bank (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603. Campbell v.
Cal-Gard Surety Services, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 563, 570.) A judgment
notwithstanding the verdict can be sustained only when it can be said as a
matter of law that no other reasonable conclusion is legally deducible from the
evidence, and that any other holding would be so lacking in evidentiary support
that the reviewing court would be compelled to reverse it, or the trial court
would be compelled to set it aside as a matter of law. (Moore v. City and
County of San Francisco (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 728, 733–734.) The trial court
renders judgment notwithstanding the verdict when a motion for directed verdict
should have been granted if made (CCP § 629). (Hansen v. Sunnyside Products,
Inc. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1510 [Rev. Den. 9/17/97]; Walton v.
Magno (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1239–1240.) The trial judge cannot,
therefore, reweigh the evidence, or judge the credibility of witnesses; if the
evidence is conflicting or if several reasonable inferences may be drawn, the
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict should be denied.  (Teitel,
supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at 1603.)
Plaintiff moves for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict on the same grounds as the motion for new trial. As stated,
substantial evidence establishes Plaintiff’s complaint did not contribute to
any adverse employment actions. 
Plaintiff’s motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict is DENIED.