  Case Number:  23STCP02316    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Kehinde Elemuren v. Charles
R. Drew University of Medicine, 23STCP02316

Tentative decision on petition
for writ of mandate:   granted



 
 
 
            Petitioner
Kehinde Elemuren (“Elemuren”) seeks administrative mandamus directing
Respondent Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science (“CDU”) to set
aside his dismissal and reinstate him as a student.
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and
renders the following tentative decision. 
            
            A.
Statement of the Case
            1.
Petition
            Petitioner
Elemuren commenced this proceeding on July 5, 2023, alleging causes of action
for administrative mandamus and breach of contract.  The verified Petition alleges in pertinent
part as follows. 
            On
July 26, 2020, while Elemuren was pursuing his degree for a Psychiatric-Mental
Health Nurse Practitioner (“PMHNP”) and in good standing with CDU, a dispute
arose regarding his NUR 645 examination (sometimes “exam”).  Elemuren was given a failing grade of
22.5/50, despite his contention that inclement weather and loss of electricity
prevented him from remotely accessing the exam during the designated
window.  The exam was set for a two-hour
window: 9:00 a.m. to 11 a.m.  Elemuren
logged in to take the exam from where he was in Texas and was only able to log
into the exam at 10:52 a.m., leaving only eight minutes until the 11:00 a.m.
cutoff.
            Elemuren
attempted to resolve the dispute with the course professor, Dr. Eunice Bisong
Nkongho (“Bisong”).  Bisong would not
consider modifying Elemuren’s grade.  On
August 18, 2020, Elemuren filed a student grievance according to protocol.  
On August 25, 2020, the CDU Greivance Committee issued its decision
requiring Elemuren to retake the exam in light of his experienced “technical
difficulties.”  The decision did not set
forth a specific date or deadline for Elemuren to retake the exam.  Elemuren accepted the decision.  
            Elemuren
and CDU agreed that he would take the rescheduled exam on September 3,
2020.  Elemuren was informed CDU was
unable to administer the exam on that date due to technical difficulties.  
On September 4, 2020, Elemuren logged onto the Blackboard
platform to take the exam but was informed by Bisong that he would not be
provided with the same exam resources that all the other students received:  a study guide while taking the exam and an
opportunity for 10% extra credit.  Elemuren
informed Bisong that he would need to consult with the provost prior to
retaking the exam.  Bisong responded that
she would not be administering the exam and logged off Blackboard. 
The same day, Bisong and Provost Dr. Steve O. Michael
(“Michael”) met and then informed Elemuren that he would be able to retake the
exam, but they were deferring to the Dean to determine whether Elemuren would
be entitled to the study guide and extra credit opportunity. Bisong informed Elemuren
that he had until the end of that day, September 4, 2020, to take the exam,
despite the Dean’s pending decision.  Elemuren
was not willing to take the exam until the Dean’s determination and was
consequently given a zero.
After a meeting between Elemuren and Dean Diane Breckenridge
(“Breckenridge”), CDU officials followed up with Elemuren on September 21, 2020
to propose that he retake the entire NUR 645 course.  After Elemuren refused, he received an email
the following day from CDU informing him that he had been withdrawn from school.  
On January 29, 2021, Elemuren received a Notice of Dismissal
from CDU, alleging that he committed violations of student conduct and policies
specific to academic dishonesty. 
Pursuant to administrative appeal requirements, Elemuren
submitted a one-page written grievance.  On
February 9, 2021, Elemuren met with the Grievance Committee.  On February 18, 2021, the Interim Dean of the
Mervyn M. Dymally School of Nursing at CDU informed Elemuren that the Grievance
Committee had unanimously concurred with the decision to expel Elemuren on
grounds of academic integrity leading to a failed grade and two subsequent
refusals to take the exam. 
            Petitioner
Elemuren seeks (1) a writ of administrative mandamus setting the Notice of
Dismissal and reinstating him into good standing, (2) an injunction compelling CDU
to reinstate Elemuren’s original exam score of 43.5/50 or in the alternative
administer the NUR 645 exam to the Elemuren, (3) damages, and (4) costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
August 28, 2023, CDU filed and served an Answer.
On October 3, 2023, CDU agreed that the Petition lies in
administrative mandamus.
 
B. Standard of Review
CCP section 1094.5 is the administrative mandamus provision
which structures the procedure for judicial review of adjudicatory decisions
rendered by administrative agencies.  Topanga
Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”)
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  
Administrative mandamus pursuant to CCP section 1094.5
applies to the disciplinary decisions of private universities to which the
common law doctrine of fair procedure applies.  Boermeester v.
Carry, (“Boermeester”) (2023) 15 Cal.5th
72, 86.  Administrative mandamus is a
proper remedy for a decision where a hearing is required by law and evidence is
required to be taken, even if a hearing was never held.
 Pomona College v. Superior Court,
(“Pomona College”) (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1716, 1729.  “[CCP] Section 1094.5 expressly provides that
it is the requirement of a hearing and taking of evidence—not whether a
hearing is actually held and evidence actually taken—that triggers the
availability of mandamus review.” Id. (italics in original). 
CCP section 1094.5 does not on its face specify which cases
are subject to independent review, leaving that issue to the courts.  Fukuda v. City of Angels, (1999) 20
Cal.4th 805, 811.  In cases reviewing
decisions which affect a vested, fundamental right the trial court exercises
independent judgment on the evidence. Bixby v. Pierno, (1971) 4 Cal.3d
130, 143.  See CCP §1094.5(c).  There is no fundamental vested right to a
private college education.  Gurfinkel
v. Los Angeles Community College Dist., (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.  A private university’s factual findings in a
student discipline case are evaluated under the substantial evidence
standard.  Doe v. University of
Southern California, (“USC”) (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221,
239, 248-49.  
“Substantial evidence” is relevant evidence that a
reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion (California
Youth Authority v. State Personnel Board, (“California Youth Authority”)
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 575, 585) or evidence of ponderable legal significance,
which is reasonable in nature, credible and of solid value.  Mohilef v. Janovici, (1996) 51
Cal.App.4th 267, 305, n.28.  The
petitioner has the burden of demonstrating that the agency’s findings are not
supported by substantial evidence in light of the whole record.  Young v. Gannon, (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th
209, 225.  The trial court considers all
evidence in the administrative record, including evidence that detracts from
evidence supporting the agency’s decision. 
California Youth Authority, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at 585.
The agency’s decision must be based on the evidence
presented at the hearing.  Board of
Medical Quality Assurance v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860,
862.  The hearing officer is only
required to issue findings that give enough explanation so that parties may
determine w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              hether,
and upon what basis, to review the decision. 
Topanga, supra, 11 Cal.3d at 514-15.  Implicit in section 1094.5 is a requirement
that the agency set forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw
evidence and ultimate decision or order. 
Topanga, 11 Cal.3d at 515.
The question of whether a university has complied with the
requirements of fair procedure is an issue of law reviewed by the court de novo. 
USC, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 239.  
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties (Evid. Code §664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden
of proof.  Steele v. Los Angeles
County Civil Service Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.  “[T]he burden of proof falls upon the party
attacking the administrative decision to demonstrate wherein the proceedings
were unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse of
discretion.”  Afford v. Pierno,
(1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 682, 691.
 
C. Private University
Student Discipline
1. Caselaw
With respect to student discipline, neither the property
interest in educational benefits temporarily denied nor the liberty interest in
reputation is so insubstantial that discipline may be imposed by any procedure
the school choses, no matter how arbitrary. 
Goss v. Lopez, (“Goss”) (1975) 419 U.S. 565, 576.  “The student's interest is to avoid unfair or
mistaken exclusion from the educational process, with all of its unfortunate
consequences….  Disciplinarians, although
proceeding in utmost good faith, frequently act on the reports and advice of
others; and the controlling facts and the nature of the conduct under challenge
are often disputed.  The risk of error is
not at all trivial, and it should be guarded against if that may be done
without prohibitive cost or interference with the educational process.”  Id. at 579-80.  
Students facing academic discipline such as suspension or
expulsion must at a minimum be given notice and afforded a hearing.  Id., at 579.  The hearing need not be formal, but the
student must be told what he is accused of doing and the basis of the
accusation before “being given an opportunity to explain his version of the
facts at this discussion.”  Goss, supra, 419 U.S. at 582.
“[A] private university provides an important, quasi-public
service — a postsecondary education — affecting the public interest”.  Boermeester, supra, 15 Cal.5th
72 at 89.  Private universities are required
to comply with the common law doctrine of fair
procedure, the principles of which are similar to those of due process in that
they are flexible and context specific.  Id.
at 87.  Fair procedure, however, is a
more flexible concept than due process.  Ibid.
 Under either concept, the procedure necessary
to provide the student accused of misconduct “notice of the charges against
them and a meaningful opportunity to be heard.”  Id. at 79.  
“Private universities generally know best how to manage
their own operations, and requiring a fixed set of procedures they must utilize
in every situation when determining student discipline would constitute an
improper intrusion into their internal affairs.”  Id. at 90.  Consequently, courts
should not specify rigid procedures that a private university must follow (id.
at 80), and private universities must “‘retain the initial and primary
responsibility for devising a method’ to ensure adequate notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard. [Citation].”).  Ibid.  
Common law requirements for a fair hearing under CCP section
1094.5 do not allow an administrative decisionmaker to rely on evidence not
revealed to the accused.  USC, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at
247.  Generally, a fair procedure
provides “notice reasonably calculated to apprise interested parties of the
pendency of the action… and an opportunity to present their objections.”  Id., at 240.  The notice required
in a student disciplinary action must identify the specific rules that the
student is alleged to have violated and the factual basis for the
accusation.  Id. at 243-44.  It is insufficient to provide the accused
student with only a list of rules that may have been violated.  Ibid. 

An accused student is entitled to
copies of all the evidence presented to or considered by the decisionmaker,
including any investigative report prepared by the university.  USC, supra,
246 Cal.App.4th at 247.  An
administrative tribunal may not rely on its own information or consider as
evidence matter that was not introduced at a hearing of which the parties had
notice or were present.  Id. at
248.  This information must be provided
by the university prior to the hearing, and the university may not require the
accused student to specifically request this information.  Id. at 246.  See also Doe v. Westmont College, (“Westmont”) (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 622, 634 (college
must give the accused student notice of the allegations against them and a fair
hearing before a neutral decisionmaker at which he or she may attempt to rebut
the allegations).
Among other things, the
fair procedure doctrine requires a private university “to comply with its own
procedural rules governing the expulsion of individuals from the organization, and
it permits courts to evaluate the basic fairness of those procedural rules when
the organization seeks to exclude or expel an individual from its membership.”  Boermeester, supra, 15 Cal.5th
72 at 86 (private university not required to provide live hearing where student
accused of sexual misconduct confronts witnesses through cross-examination).
While California law does not require any specific form of disciplinary
hearing, a university is bound by its own policies and procedures.  Berman v. Regents of University of
California, (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1271-72.  The trial
court’s determination of whether the university complied with its own hearing
requirements requires application of the rules of statutory interpretation and
construction.  Id. at 1271;
Westmont, supra, 34 Cal.App.5th at 635.  Additionally, a court should not second guess
the academic judgments made by the college faculty.  Pomona College, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th
at 1726. 
 
2. CDU
Policies
a. Student
Handbook
The Student Handbook outlines the
academic grievance process.  AR 161,
163-64.  The Student Handbook explains
how a student should prepare an academic grievance, that the grievance will be
heard by the Student Affairs Committee, and that the student may appeal the
decision to the Dean.  AR 164.  The Student Handbook states: “It is the
responsibility of the student to move the process forward through each step.”  AR 163.  
 
b. University
Catalog
The University Catalog describes
the Academic Integrity and Academic Dishonesty policy.  AR 152-53. 

The University Catalog states that
the Dean of each school is “responsible for ensuring that the college/school
maintains appropriate student policies and procedures that are reasonable, well
publicized, and administered fairly and consistently, for filing a report of
misconduct or an appeal or grievance.” 
AR 143.  The Dean of each CDU School
“will ensure that enrolled students receive and acknowledge receipt of this
policy on an annual basis, as well as any distinct set of misconduct, appeal,
or grievance policies and procedures tailored to its specific student.”  AR 143. 

The Dean of Student Affairs will
ensure that CDU’s student service units maintain a copy of the Student Appeals
and Grievances and related policies and procedures regarding the “due process”
rights and responsibilities of students for filing an appeal or grievance.  AR 143. 
The Dean exercises final decision-making authority for resolution of
reports of misconduct or student appeals or grievances at the level of student
service units and their attendant student support programs.  AR 143. 

However, students may appeal such
decisions to the Provost.  AR 143.  For those occasions when there is not a
satisfactory resolution of a report of misconduct or an appeal or grievance at
the level of a college/school or student service unit – where a Dean is the
final authority – the Provost will maintain a procedure for an ad hoc
hearing.  AR 143. The Provost must ensure
that students have a full and fair opportunity to present evidence at the
hearing relevant to the issues raised in their original filing at the lower
levels.   AR 143.  The Provost exercise final decision-making
authority for resolution of reports of misconduct or student appeals or
grievances at the level of the University. 
AR 143.
Students can request in writing
that the Provost review the appeal not resolved satisfactorily at the
college/school level.  AR 146.  A student request for an ad hoc
hearing shall be submitted to the Provost within ten days after the Dean
renders a final decision.  Id.  The Provost shall arrange for an ad hoc
hearing within 30 business days and appoint a hearing officer to conduct the ad
hoc proceeding.  AR 146.  The hearing officer shall afford the student
a full and fair opportunity to present evidence relevant to the issues raised
in the original appeal or grievance at lower levels.  AR 146. 
The hearing officer will submit a written recommendation to the Provost
about how to respond and the Provost’s decision is final.  AR 146.
 
            D. Statement of Facts
            1. Background
In 2014, Elemuren graduated from CDU
with a degree from the Family Nurse Practitioner program with a cumulative GPA
of 3.59.  AR 97, 100.  After practicing as a family nurse practitioner
for four years, Elemuren applied to CDU’s PMHNP program, was accepted, and
began attending the PMHNP program at CDU’s Mervyn M. Dymally School of Nursing in May
2019.  AR 97, 606.
 
            2. The July 26, 2020 Exam
On July 26, 2020, Elemuren was
scheduled to take the final examination for the NUR 645 PMHNP course.  AR 180. 
The faculty for this course included Director Bisong and
Victoria Omuson (“Omuson”).  
The NUR 645 syllabus stated that there
would be one final online exam that would cover all materials.   AR 210. 
There would be no make-up examination unless technical issues proved to
be involved.  AR 210.  The final exam would be administered from 8:00
a.m. to 10:00 a.m. for a total of two hours. 
AR 210.  The exam time
subsequently was changed to be from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.  AR 209. 
Nothing in the syllabus indicated that late submissions would be
penalized.  AR 24.  
Elemuren took the examination in Texas,
where he was staying at the time.  AR
639.  Elemuren was present at roll call
for the examination at 8:30 a.m.  AR
180.  Due to severe weather that resulted
in a power failure and the loss of internet service at his hotel, he was unable
to log in and begin the examination at 9:00 a.m.  AR 639.  Elemuren did not contact CDU during the exam
to report any technical issues.  AR
180.  At 9:38 a.m., before he had begun
taking the exam, Omuson emailed Elemuren, informing him that he had been present
for roll call and yet had not logged in to take the exam.  AR 180. 
Omuson warned Elemuren that he “will receive a zero for not taking the
exam.”  AR 180.  
Elemuren sought and found an
alternative location for taking the examination and began taking the
examination at 10:52 a.m.  AR 27, 180.   Elemuren
submitted the examination at 11:47 a.m.  AR
27.  He answered 87 of the examination’s
100 questions correctly, which would have translated to a score of 43.5 out of
a maximum of 50.  AR 46.  
While the system allowed Elemuren to
submit his answers late, it only accepted answers until 11:00 a.m.  AR 180. 
Elemuren’s answers entered after 11:00 a.m. were ignored.  AR 180. 
As a result, Elemuren received a score of 17 out of 100.  Id. 
Omuson subsequently gave five points credit to everyone in the class
because two students had experienced technical difficulties, which brought
Elemuren’s final score to 22 out of 100. 
AR 181.  He received a C+ in the
course, which was a failing grade.  AR 212.

Elemuren later stated that he was under
the impression that he had two hours to complete the examination so long as he
started the examination anytime within the 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. timeframe,
writing: “While it was stated that the test starts at 9am, nowhere was it
mentioned that tests taken late will result in a failing grade.” AR  639.  He
contended that his actual score should be 87 out of 100.  AR 639.
Between July 28 and August 3, 2020, Elemuren
and Bisong exchanged several emails, with Elemuren asking to receive full credit
for questions answered after 11:00 a.m. and Bisong denying Elemuren’s requests.  AR 46-49. 
After not receiving an answer from Bisong for three days, on August 3,
2020, Elemuren emailed the Director of Student Affairs, Dr. Farnaz Saadat (“Saadat”), asking
him to resolve the issue.  AR 46.  
In response, Bisong emailed Saddat and
accused Elemuren of hacking the instructor system and being able to “manipulate
and defraud the system to have a copy of the final exam even after it ended on
7/26/2020.”  AR 42-45.  
On September 4, 2020, Bisong emailed
Saadat, claiming that Elemuren had “clicked the ignore button to offset the end
time when the system prompted him that the exam would end in a few
minutes.  AR 181.  Bisong stated that there had been a ticket
sent to the IT department to obtain more information about how Elemuren had
defrauded the system.  AR 181.  During the conference meeting, Elemuren claimed
that he had to travel out to use the internet for the exam and later said that he
had to use his sister’s hotspot and computer. 
Which was it?  AR 182.  Bisong noted that his sister and two other
students were in Texas taking the exam at the same time and all three took it
with no service interruption.  AR 182.[1]
Elemuren was not copied on either of
Bisong’s emails to Saadat.  See AR
42-45, 179.
 
            3. The Grievance Committee Appeal
On August 18th, 2020, Elemuren appealed
his final exam grade to CDU’s Grievance Committee.  AR 639. 

On August 26, 2020, the Grievance
Committee reviewed the syllabi and Blackboard (the computer system through
which the examination was taken) and noted that neither referenced a specific
timeframe for the exam.  AR 24.  There was no reference to forfeiture if the
exam was not completed in one sitting and there had been a technical glitch
that enabled Elemuren to continue taking the exam outside the allotted two-hour
period.  AR 24.  Both Bisong and Omusan expressed concerns to
the Committee about Elemuren’s possible academic dishonesty.  AR 24. 
The Grievance Committee noted that the syllabi stated that the
instructor has the right to administer another exam if there are technical
issues and decided to permit Elemuren to retake the examination.  AR 25.
 
4.
The September 3, 2020 First Rescheduled Exam
Omusan spent four days
preparing a new exam for Elemuren.  AR 607.  
She planned the exam for September 5, but Elemuren asked to take it
earlier, on either September 1or 3, 2020. 
AR 192.  Hence, the exam
was scheduled for September 3rd, 2020, from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.  AR 192. 
On September 2, 2020, Saadat emailed
Elemuren, informing him to download “Respondus for Proctorio” (the “Program”) in
his Blackboard as well as stating “Please be noticed with activating this
feature on blackboard your exam will be postponed.”  AR 193. 

At 11:00 a.m. on September 3, 2020, Elemuren
notified Director Bisong, Omuson, Angelika Henry (the Blackboard expert), and
Saadat that he did not read the email from Saadat regarding the exam
instructions.  AR 192.  The faculty and director again asked Elemuren
to download the Program per Saadat’s email instruction.  Id. 
Elemuren could not take the exam until he did so.  Id. 
Blackboard showed that Elemuren logged in twice and Saadat then warned
Elemuren he needed to login only once to Blackboard or the exam would be terminated.  Id. 

            By 2:30 p.m., faculty and staff had
spent three and a half hours trying to assist Elemuren in downloading the
Program.  AR 193.  Elemuren stated he had downloaded the Program
but could not see the exam.  Id.  Angelika Henry, the Blackboard expert, stated
that Elemuren did not download the Program, and this was the reason he was
unable to access the exam link.  Id.   
            At 2:30 p.m., Elemuren stated that he
needed to go to work.  AR 193.  The decision was made that Elemuren would notify
the director and faculty by the end of the day when he was ready to take the
exam.  Id.  Around 5:00 p.m., Elemuren notified the director
and Omuson that he would take the exam the following day, September 4, 2020, at
12:00 noon.  Id.  
 
5. The
September 4, 2020 Second Rescheduled Exam
The morning of September 4, 2020,
Director Bisong, Omuson, and Saadat received emails from Elemuren asking about his
access to the study guide that had been permitted for the July 26 exam and if
the five extra credit points all the students received on that exam would be
applied to his rescheduled exam.  AR 192.  Omuson responded that the same study guide
for the July 26 exam was available on Blackboard for the rescheduled exam.  AR 192.  Omuson also stated
that the five extra credit points were applied to all students on the July 26
exam due to two students having technical difficulties.  AR 192. 

            When Elemuren logged in for the exam
at 12 noon, he stated that he was not taking the exam until his concerns were
resolved regarding the study guide.  AR
193.  Director Bisong informed Elemuren
that the same study guide applied to both exams as this was a parallel exam.  AR 193. 
Bisong informed Elemuren that if he continued to refuse to take the
exam, he would receive a failing grade in the course.  Id. 
Ultimately, Elemuren refused to take the exam, given that his questions/concerns
remained unanswered. Id.
            By 1:00 p.m., faculty put the
materials and report together to update Provost Michael about the
situation.  AR 193.  Since he did not take the final, Elemuren
received a C+ in NUR 645, which is considered a failing grade in the
course.  AR 212.
 
6. Failure
to Retake the Course
On September 11, 2020, Elemuren had
a follow-up meeting with Dean Breckenridge and
Director
of Student Affairs Saadat, during which Elemuren acknowledged that he would
fail the course because of his refusal to take the exam.  AR 591. 
After being offered the opportunity to retake the course, Elemuren
declined.  He also declined to take a
leave of absence from CDU.  AR 566, 588-91,
598-600. 
On September 14, 2020, Elemuren was
administratively withdrawn from CDU because he “Failed course, but did not
register for Fall to take [the] repeated course.”  AR 131.  The CDU stated that Elemuren “did not comply
to many areas of the program at the level of usual student compliance; and continues
to state he is correct and can graduate as is and does not need to retake NUR
646 and does not take accountability as an RN, FNP… [A]s a student in a Psych
MHNP Program it is highly recommended that he retake NUR 646 and be compliant
in these incompletes or be expelled from the program since he cannot graduate
without these areas completed. Since this time, he has been administratively
withdrawn from the program since he did not re-enroll in NUR 646 by the end of
Drop/Add and did not take a leave of absence.” 
AR 592.  
 
6. Elemuren’s
Dismissal 
In a letter dated January 29, 2021, Interim
Dean Barbara Ake (“Ake”) of CDU’s School of Nursing informed Elemuren that he
was being dismissed from the PMHNP program. 
AR 2.  Ake’s letter stated that
Elemuren’s removal from the program was due to a “violation of student conduct
and a violation of academic policies specific to academic dishonesty” and
defined both those terms.  Id. 
The letter stated that Elemuren could
appeal this decision by following the procedures outlined in the Student
Handbook (Academic Grievance process, p. 36). 
Id.  His written grievance
should include a “single page indicating why you [Elemuren] should be allowed
to continue in the program.”  Id.  The appeal should be delivered to the
Director of Student Affairs within three “school/business days of this notification—but
not later than February 5, 2021.”  AR 3.  
On February 1, 2021, Elemuren filed
a grievance letter.  AR 547, 566.  On February 4, 2021, Provost
Michael confirmed with Interim Dean Ake that Elemuren had been advised of his
right to appeal and that the appeal process was underway.  AR 545.
 
            7. Appeal Decision
On Tuesday, February 9, 2021, the
Grievance Committee met with Elemuren to act on his appeal.  AR 562.
On February 18, 2021, the Grievance
Committee communicated to Elemuren its decision after the February 9, 2021,
meeting.  AR 562, 564-565.  The Committee stated that after careful
review, it came to the unanimous decision to expel Elemuren.  AR 564. 
The decision stated: 
“Upon careful analysis of the student's
statements and review of all the transcripts presented from previous meetings
and e-mails between the student, faculty, Director, and the former Dean Dr.
Breckenridge, the Grievance Committee has come to a unanimous decision to
concur with the current Interim Dean, Dr. Ake's decision in this matter as
follows: expelling the student, Kehinde Elemuren from Charles R. Drew
University of Medicine and Science. Herein are the following reasons:
1). Academic
integrity was compromised when the student failed to take the examination on
time and went beyond the set time limit "by clicking the ignore
button" hence received an unauthorized extension to complete the
examination. This resulted to a failed grade because the score was 17
points which was raised to 22 after the additional 5 points credit awarded by
the Faculty, Dr. Omusan. Overall score was 22/100.
2). Director
Dr. Bisong and Faculty Dr. Omusan gave the student two subsequent opportunities
to retake the examinations Sept. 3 & 4, 2020. In both instances student
failed or declined to take the exam. Student refused on two separate occasions
to take the test and further refused to retake the course as suggested by the
previous Dean. If there were mishaps along the way, it is still student
responsibility to seek arrangements to retake and, when it is feasible to
retake an examination, to see to it that Proctorio, which is an authenticator
tool for monitoring student conduct during the examination, is correctly
downloaded to Blackboard. Section III
-Student Conduct states: The student code of conduct assumes adherence to the
rules and regulations of MMDSON.  Each
student is held accountable for maintaining personal integrity and, to the best
of their ability, the integrity of the MMDSON community.”  AR 564.  
            E. Analysis
Petitioner Elemuren seeks a writ of mandate
on the grounds that (1) he was entitled by law to fair procedure, he did not
receive a fair hearing, and therefore his dismissal must be set aside, and (2)
CDU’s decision to dismiss him is not supported by substantial evidence.[2]
 
1. Notice and Opportunity to Be Heard
CDU argues that the Supreme Court in Boermeester did
not decide that a student at a private school necessarily is entitled to a hearing.  See 15 Cal.5th at 78-80.  It only decided that a private university
must provide notice and opportunity to rebut the allegations.  The student is only entitled to the opportunity to explain his version of the facts.  USC, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at
240.  For Elemuren, that opportunity happened
at the Grievance Committee meeting on February 9, 2021.  A writ of mandamus may issue only if Elemuren
was dismissed without fair procedure, but the procedure that led to Elemuren’s expulsion
was not unfair.  Rather, Elemuren’s own
series of choices led to his dismissal.  CDU
granted Elemuren numerous opportunities to remain in the PMHNP
program, all of which he rejected. 
He alone took the steps and made the decisions that led to his removal
from the University.  Opp. at 12.
Specifically, Elemuren ignored the September 2, 2020 exam
instructions to download the software so that he could have retaken the exam on
September 3, 2020.  AR 192. 
He could have retaken the exam on September 4, 2020, but instead he irrationally insisted on a new study guide
when one already existed for the course.  Id.  Between September 4 and
September 14, 2020, Elemuren could have retaken the course by the Drop/Add date,
but he refused.  See AR 590.   Elemuren
also could have taken a leave of absence, but he refused.  See AR
592.  After receiving his dismissal on
January 29, 2021, Elemuren appealed and met with the Grievance Committee on
February 9, 2021.  AR 564, 590. 
 The Grievance Committee’s February
18, 2021 letter set forth in detail its careful consideration of Elemuren’s
side of the story that he presented on February 9, 2021.  AR 563.  Elemuren’s attack on Bisong has nothing to do
with the decision of the Grievance Committee. 
Elemuren subsequently failed to appeal to the Provost.[3]   Opp.
at 10, 13.
CDU is mixing academic
grievances with student discipline.  This
mandamus case is not about Elemuren’s NUR 645 grade, it is about his dismissal from the PMHNP
program.  The Student Handbook outlines the
academic grievance process for grades. 
AR 161, 163-64.  The Student
Handbook explains how a student should prepare an academic grievance, that it
will be heard by the Student Affairs Committee, and that the student may appeal
the decision to the Dean.  AR 164.  The Student Handbook states: “It is the
responsibility of the student to move the process forward through each step.”  AR 163.
Elemuren followed the grievance
process with respect to his grade of zero for the final
examination for the NUR 645 course.  AR
180.  On August 18th, 2020, Elemuren
appealed his final examination grade to the Grievance Committee.  AR 639. 
(Presumably, the Grievance Committee is the same entity as the Student
Affairs Committee identified in the Student Handbook.  AR 639.) 
On August 26, 2020, the Grievance Committee decided to permit Elemuren
to retake the examination.  AR 25.
The
examination was rescheduled for September 5, but at Elemuren’s request,
it was
scheduled for September 3rd, 2020, from 11:00 a.m.  to 1:00 p.m. 
AR 192.  On September 3, 2020, after
several hours of difficulty with attempts by faculty and staff to assist him, Elemuren
stated that he needed to go to work and subsequently stated that he would take
the examination the following day, September 4, 2020 at 12:00 noon.  AR 193.  
On September 4, 2020, Elemuren asked
about his access to the study guide and if the five extra credit points all
students received for the July 26 exam would be applied to his rescheduled
exam.  AR 192.  He was informed that the same study guide that
was available for the July 26 exam was available on Blackboard for his
rescheduled exam and that the five extra credit points for the July 26 exam had
only been given because two students had technical difficulties.  AR 192. 
Elemuren stated that he was not taking the exam until his concerns were
resolved regarding the study guide.  AR
193.  After being informed that he would
receive a failing grade in the course if he continued to refuse, Elemuren decided
that he would not take the exam and received a zero for the examination.  Id. 
Since he did not take the final, Elemuren received a C+ in NUR 645,
which is
considered a failing grade in the course.  AR 212.
Elemuren did not file a grievance over
this decision and subsequently acknowledged that he would fail the
course because of his refusal to take the exam. 
AR 591.  Elemuren also declined the
opportunity to retake the course or to take a leave of absence.  AR 566, 588-91, 598-600. 
On September 14, 2020, CDU listed Elemuren
as administratively withdrawn from the University because he failed the NUR 645
course and did not register to repeat it. 
AR 131.  Dean Breckenridge
informed Provost Michael in an email that it was highly recommended that Elemuren
either retake NUR 646 or be expelled from the PMHNP program since
he cannot graduate without these areas completed.  AR 592. 

At that point, CDU may have been well
within the bounds of fair procedure to dismiss Elemuren from the PMHNP program
for failing to complete it.  The court
cannot decide this issue because whether CDU was entitled to do so is dependent
on whether (a) Dean Breckenridge was correct that NUR 646 is a necessary core
requirement for the PMHNP program without which Elemuren could not graduate and
(b) CDU could dismiss Elemuren for not completing this core requirement within
a certain period.
But
CDU did not dismiss Elemuren for failing to complete the PMHNP program.  Instead, Interim Dean Ake’s January 29, 2021
letter stated that he was being dismissed from the PMHNP program due to a
“violation of student conduct and a violation of academic policies specific to academic
dishonesty”, and she defined both those terms. 
AR 2.  In other words, CDU
dismissed Elemuren for misconduct.  As
the Petition alleges, the January 29 letter stated that he was dismissed for
committing violations of student conduct and policies specific to
academic dishonesty.  This
allegation triggered a different set of fair procedure requirements than
dismissal for failing to complete a requisite course.  
Elemuren
is correct (Pet. Op. Br. at 10) that he did not receive notice of any
dishonesty charges as required by the fair procedure doctrine.  Boermeester, supra, 15
Cal.5th 72 at 79.  The January 29, 2021
letter merely listed the student conduct and academic dishonesty policies that
he violated without providing any specific supporting facts.  The notice required
in a student disciplinary action must identify the specific rules that the
student is alleged to have violated and the factual basis for the
accusation.  USC, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 243-44.  It is
insufficient to provide the accused student with only a list of rules that have
been violated.  Ibid.  
Elemuren also contends that he did not
have a reasonable opportunity to be heard. 
Interim Dean Ake’s dismissal letter stated that Elemuren could appeal
this decision by following the procedures outlined in the Student
Handbook.  AR 2.  His written grievance should include a
“single page indicating why you [Elemuren] should be allowed to continue in the
program.”  Id.  The appeal should be delivered to the
Director of Student Affairs within three “school/business days of this
notification—but not later than February 5, 2021.”  AR 3.  
Elemuren argues that the dismissal letter’s direction did
not provide a reasonable opportunity to be heard.  First, he was expelled without any pre-deprivation
opportunity to be heard.  Second, the
appeal process only permitted him to submit a maximum of one page in his
defense which, given the complexity of the issues and the seriousness of
Elemuren’s expulsion, was woefully inadequate.  Third, the one-page appeal was required to be
submitted within three business days of the expulsion decision, which hardly
provides a student with enough time to draft such an important document.  Finally, perhaps the most absurd element of
the appeal process is that Elemuren was required to respond to the dismissal without
knowing what the accusations were.  Pet.
Op. Br. at 11.
The court agrees that an appeal from a dismissal without
knowing what the accusation is does not satisfy fair procedure.  However, the court need not decide whether the
three-day appeal filing period and limitation of the appeal to one page met
fair procedure requirements.[4]  Elemuren was able to timely file a
grievance appeal.  AR 547, 566.  He makes no showing that the three-day period
or one-page limit prejudiced him in doing so. 
There also is no requirement in fair procedure -- or in many due process
circumstances – of a pre-deprivation hearing before discipline is imposed.  A post-deprivation hearing often will suffice,
and that is exactly what the Grievance Committee appeal was.
On February 9, 2021, the Grievance Committee met with Elemuren and
denied his appeal on February 18, 2021.  AR
562, 564-65.  The Grievance Committee
stated that it had reviewed Elemuren’s statements, transcripts from meetings
with him, and pertinent emails, and upheld his expulsion because: 
 
1). Academic
integrity was compromised when the student failed to take the examination on
time and went beyond the set time limit "by clicking the ignore
button" hence received an unauthorized extension to complete the
examination…..
2). Director
Dr. Bisong and Faculty Dr. Omusan gave the student two subsequent opportunities
to retake the examinations Sept. 3 & 4, 2020. In both instances student
failed or declined to take the exam. Student refused on two separate occasions
to take the test and further refused to retake the course as suggested by the
previous Dean. If there were mishaps along the way, it is still student
responsibility to seek arrangements to retake and, when it is feasible to
retake an examination….Each student is held accountable for maintaining
personal integrity and, to the best of their ability, the integrity of the
MMDSON community.”  AR 564.  
            This
decision appears to be a mixture of concepts. 
First, the Grievance Committee found that Elemuren committed a violation
of academic integrity when he took the first exam.  Second, it found that Elemuren was
responsible for failing to retake the exam. 
The decision does not expressly address Interim Dean Ake’s dismissal for a “violation of student
conduct and a violation of academic policies specific to academic dishonesty”.  It also does not address the impact of Elemuren’s
failure to get a passing grade in the NUR 645 course and whether he should
be dismissed from the PMHNP program for that failure.
Additionally, the Grievance Committee stated that it reviewed
Elemuren’s statements, transcripts from meetings with him, and pertinent emails
without verifying that he had received these documents.  The requirements for a fair hearing do not
allow an administrative decisionmaker to rely on evidence not revealed to the
accused.  USC, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at
247.  An accused
student is entitled to copies of all the evidence presented to or considered by
the decisionmaker.  Id.  An administrative tribunal may not rely on
its own information or consider as evidence matter that was not introduced at a
hearing of which the parties had notice or were present.  Id. at 248.  This information must be provided by the
university prior to the hearing, and the university may not require the accused
student to specifically request this information.  Id. at 246.
In sum, CDU failed to
notify Elemuren of the charges and failed to ensure that he had all evidence
relied upon by the Greivance Committee. 
As a result, the University did not follow fair procedure.
 
            2. CDU
Failed to Inform Elemuren of His Right to a Provost Ad Hoc Appeal
Elemuren relies on a recent appellate case,
Campbell v. Career Development Institute, Inc., (“Campbell”)
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1109.  Pet.
Op. Br. at 5-6.
In Campbell, a nursing student was
expelled from a private university by a letter stating that he had been rude in
an incident earlier that day.  Id.
at 1111. The student was not provided with a hearing, nor was one required by
the university’s procedures.  Ibid.  The student appealed his expulsion, but the
university denied his appeal.  Id.
at 1112.
Campbell sought administrative mandamus in
superior court to challenge his expulsion, but the trial court ruled that he
was not entitled to a hearing because due process did not apply to a private
university and the school’s procedures did not provide for a hearing.  Id. 
The appellate court relied on Boermeester to reverse the trial
court and remand for a determination determine whether the fair procedure
doctrine applied to Campbell’s dismissal. 
Id. at 1113.   If so, the
trial court must determine whether a hearing was required and whether the
school provided a sufficient one.  Id.
Elemuren argues that the facts in the
present case are virtually identical to the facts in Campbell.  He did not receive a hearing before expulsion
(AR 2), he was dismissed by a letter, without a hearing and an opportunity to
be heard (AR 2-3), and his appeal was denied. (AR 564).  Therefore, a mandamus writ is
appropriate.  Pet. Op. Br. at 5-6.
CDU argues that Elemuren failed to exhaust his
administrative remedies by seeking an ad hoc appeal hearing from the
Provost.  CDU’s Policy for Student
Appeals and Grievances is published in the University Catalog with a procedure
for student appeals and grievances to the Provost for an ad hoc appeal
hearing.  AR
146.  A student can request an ad hoc
hearing to submit to the Provost within ten days after the Dean renders a final
decision.  Id.  Elemuren did not do
that.  The University Catalog is clear: “It is the responsibility of the student to
move the process forward through each step.”  AR 163-64.
 Opp. at 9-10.
Elemuren did not fail to exhaust his
administrative remedies because he was never informed of his right to a Provost
appeal.  Before Elemuren’s Grievance Committee
appeal from his dismissal, Interim Dean Ake took care in her January 29, 2021 letter to
refer him to the Student Handbook’s Academic Grievance process and inform him
that his written grievance should be a single page and delivered to the
Director of Student Affairs not later than February 5, 2021.  AR 3.  Provost
Michael confirmed with Interim Dean Ake that she had advised Elemuren of
his right to appeal.  AR 545.  Yet, there is no evidence that either of them
informed Elemuren of his right to a Provost ad hoc appeal.  Nor was such a notice provided in the
Grievance Committee decision.  AR 564-65.
Notice of this right to a final
appeal is particularly important because the Provost ad hoc appeal
procedure is not discussed in the Student Handbook with the academic grievance
process.  AR 163-64.  Instead, it is separately set forth in the
University Catalog.  AR 143, 146.  The Student Handbook is a document that Elemuren
could be expected to have, but there is no evidence that Elemuren possessed the
University Catalog.[5]
Apart from the documents Elemuren
can be expected to have, the Dean had an independent obligation to ensure that
Elemuren knew he had the right to seek a Provost ad hoc appeal.  The University Catalog expressly states that
the Dean of each CSU school is “responsible for ensuring that the
college/school maintains appropriate student policies and procedures that are
reasonable, well publicized, and administered fairly and consistently,
for filing a report of misconduct or an appeal or grievance.”  AR 143 (emphasis added).  The Dean of each school “will ensure that
enrolled students receive and acknowledge receipt of this policy on an annual
basis, as well as any distinct set of misconduct, appeal, or grievance
policies and procedures tailored to its specific student.”  AR 143 (emphasis added).  The Dean of Student Affairs further will
ensure that CDU’s student service units maintain a copy of the Student Appeals
and Grievances and related policies and procedures regarding the “due process”
rights and responsibilities of students for filing an appeal or grievance.  AR 143. 

CDU failed to follow its own
procedure of ensuring that Elemuren knew of his right to seek a Provost ad
hoc appeal.  Elemuren did not fail to
exhaust his administrative remedies because he was never informed of its existence
in violation of fair procedure and CDU’s own policies.  See Berman v. Regents of University
of California, supra, 229 Cal.App.4th at 1271-72 (university must
follow is own policies and procedures).  
In sum, CDU failed to
notify Elemuren of his right to seek a Provost ad hoc appeal.  As a result, the University did not follow
fair procedure and its own policies.
 
3. The Court
Cannot Determine the Merits of Elemuren’s Dismissal
Elemuren argues that CDU’s decision is not supported by
substantial evidence and the court should order his reinstatement as a CDU
student.  He contends that the
administrative record contains private emails between CDU staff that reveal Bisong,
who is a convicted felon, was the driving force behind the accusations.  
Following Elemuren’s email to Saadat, Bisong accused
Elemuren of manipulating and defrauding the system “to have a copy of the final
exam even after it ended on 7/26/2020.”  AR
42-45. Bison stated that it is “clear from this point Kehinde [Elemuren] has a
way to crack in to [sic] the system to retrieve all these information [sic]
jeopardizing any of our exams.” AR 44.  Bisong
reached this conclusion because Elemuren was able to produce a printout of the
examination answers, with student feedback for the wrong answers, to which he
should not have had access.  Elemuren
argues that it does not take a computer expert to realize that a document that
provides “response feedback” for wrong answers is most likely meant for
students.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12.
Elemuren further argues that Bisong’s attacks escalated
after he prevailed on his grade appeal.  She
claimed that Elemuren lied about his clinical hours and that his clinical
preceptor was licensed as a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner.  AR 186.  Even after she conceded that Elemuren had told
the truth about both, she still accused him, without evidence, of colluding
with his preceptor to lie about his hours.  AR 189.  Bisong’s character, her lack of credibility as
a felon, and her false accusations are significant because the Grievance
Committee considered her emails in its dismissal decision.  AR 564. 
Elemuren concludes that the court should determine that CDU’s
allegations against him are not supported by substantial evidence.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13; Reply at 4.
Elemuren puts the cart before the horse.  Neither the court nor Elemuren know what the
charges against him are.  If the charge
is that he failed to complete a necessary course and cannot obtain his degree
as a result, the evidence on that issue has been mostly presented.  If the charge is that Elemuren committed a
violation of academic integrity by acting dishonestly, the evidence has not
been completely aired on that issue. 
Either way, the court cannot consider the merits of any ground for his
dismissal without knowing what the charge is and without each party having an
opportunity to present evidence on that charge. 

 
            F.
Conclusion
The Petition is granted.
 A judgment and writ shall issue
remanding the matter to CDU for it to decide the charges against Elemuren.  The required fair procedure will differ depending
on that determination.  If CDU
intends to dismiss Elemuren from the PMHNP program for failing to complete NUR
646, it may be able to do so with little additional procedure.  If CDU intends to dismiss him for academic
misconduct, fair procedure will require more. 
That decision lies within CDU’s discretion.
Elemuren’s counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed judgment
and writ, serve them on CDU’s counsel for approval as to form, wait ten days
after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are objections, and
then submit the proposed judgment and writ along with a declaration stating the
existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for May 23, 2024 at
9:30 a.m.


