


[1]
All further statutory references are to the Government Code unless otherwise
stated.


[2]
Respondent Berserker was not present for the meet-and-confer.  Beserker is named in the Petition and has
been served, but it has note appeared. 
Opp. at 10, n. 5. 


[3]
CCP section 389(b) provides: “If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2)
of subdivision (a) cannot be made a party, the court shall determine whether in
equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before
it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus
regarded as indispensable.  The factors
to be considered by the court include: (1) to what extent a judgment rendered
in the person’s absence might be prejudicial to him or those already parties;
(2) the extent to which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by the
shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided;
(3) whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; (4)
whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate remedy if the
action is dismissed for nonjoinder.”


[4] Despite
being served on December 12, 2023, Berserker has yet to appear in this
action.  At the December 12, 2023 Status
Conference Re: Notice of Related Cases, the court asked counsel for Developer
to reach out to Berserker, given that its residence could potentially be torn
down as a result of this action.  Mehta
Decl., ¶3. 
  At the February 2, 2024 meet and
confer Zoom call on the demurrer, Developer’s counsel stated that they still
have not been able to reach Berserker.  Mehta Decl., ¶4.    


[5] The City and Developer are
correct that SPAWN, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 195 does not hold
otherwise.  There, a county adopted a
general plan update and an associated EIR “involving no individual project
proponent.” Id. at 205.  Prior to
the litigation, the county entered into a tolling agreement with a project
objector.  Id. at 199. When the
objector later sued, third parties intervened, alleging that the objector’s
petition was untimely on the ground that the tolling agreement was invalid
because section 65009 sets “an absolute limit for filing and serving a
complaint…”  Id. at 207. The court
found that the intervenors were not real parties-in-interest and that the
legislative body “is the only necessary party to the suit.”  Id. at 208.  Unlike the intervenors in SPAWN, it is
undisputed that Berserker is indispensable. 
Reply at 4.


[6]
Petitioners also argue that the City and Developer ignore key allegations in
the Petition occurring after the June 3, 2022 Termination Notice: (a) LADBS’
approval of a height survey dated August 9, 2022 based on incorrect information
in violation of the LAMC (Pet., ¶53, Ex. K), (b) construction that deviated
from the 30-feet height limit set forth in the original plans and building
permits (Pet., ¶¶ 1, 15-16, 44, 49-51,
67-68), and (c) the shifting of the as-built Project eastward at a critical
location at the northern portion of the west roof so as to render the Approved
Height Survey false (Pet., ¶¶ 62-65, Exs.
O-Q).  Opp.
at 11.  The court agrees that, if these
issues were raised in the Second Height Appeal, they were timely presented.


[7]
Petitioners conclude that the collective standing/failure to exhaust arguments by
the City and Developer suggest that, if a property is sold during the pendency
of a building permit appeal, both the prior and current owners somehow will lack
standing to pursue an illegal project. 
That cannot possibly be true.  See
Civil Code §3523 (“For every wrong
there is a remedy.”).  Opp. at 13.  The City and Developer reply that it would be
a perverse outcome for a litigious individual residing in Illinois to be able
to seek mandamus against the City for no apparent reason other than spite.  It is not hard to imagine a scenario where
third parties can “jump into” administrative appeals they did not file, perhaps
with the allure of an eventual award of attorney’s fees.  Reply at 7-8. 
The court need not address these policy issues until the matter is more
fully addressed.
 

