 Case Number:  23STCV07306    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Initial Response to
Form Interrogatories
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Initial Response to Request for Production
 
Tentative
The motions are granted.
The requests for sanctions are granted in
part.
Background
On April 3, 2024, Marvin Sanders
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) for general negligence and motor vehicle
negligence arising out of an incident in which Plaintiff alleges that his wheelchair
was flipped when exiting a bus.
On December 12, 2023, Defendant filed an
answer.
On June 3, 2024, Defendant filed these
two motions to compel Plaintiff to respond to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
and Demand for Production (Set One). Plaintiff filed a combined opposition on July
11, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on July 16.
 
Legal Standard

A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are
directed does not provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290,
subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses,
and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition,
a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial responses to
interrogatories, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)
A party must respond to requests for production of
documents within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260,
subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for production of documents are directed
does not provide timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) There
is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and
confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When
a party moves to compel initial responses to requests for production, “the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes [the motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery
Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines
“[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.020, subd. (a).)
Discussion
On January 16, 2024, Defendant served
Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Demand for Production (Set
One).  (Thomas Decls., 7:15-18 & Exhs.
1.)  Plaintiff did not respond.  (Id., 7:24-25.)
On June 3, 2024, Defendant filed these two
motions to compel.
On or about June 25, 2024, Plaintiff served verified
written responses to the interrogatories and requests for production.  (Opp., Exh. B.)  Although all objections were waived by
Plaintiff’s failure to serve a timely response, Plaintiff’s responses
nonetheless contain objections.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff argues that the discovery requests
were invalid under California Rule of Court, rule 8.32, in that they did not
include propounding party’s email address and that the requests were not
properly served.  The Court has reviewed
the evidence in the record and finds that service was properly effected.  Rule 8.32 applies only to appellate
proceedings, and, in any event, any violation of the rule would not excuse
Plaintiff’s failure to provide timely responses under the Civil Discovery Act.
Plaintiff also argues that now that responses
have been served, the motions are moot. 
The Court of Appeal has plainly held, however, that in precisely this
context, in which untimely responses are served after the motion is filed, and shortly
before the hearing date, the Court has the authority to rule on the
motion.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at p. 409.)  Here, Plaintiff waived his objections by
failing to serve timely responses; Plaintiff has not moved for relief from that
waiver; and Plaintiff included objections in his untimely responses.  That was improper.
Accordingly, the motion to compel
is granted as follows: Plaintiff must serve verified responses without
objections to the interrogatories and requests for production.
If Defendant contends that there
are other deficiencies in the verified responses, Defendant will need to bring
a motion to compel further responses under the Civil Discovery Act (after
complying with the requirements to meet and confer and to participate in an
Informal Discovery Conference).
Plaintiff’s conduct, and particularly including
waived objections in his verified responses, was not substantially justified,
and the imposition of sanctions is not unjust in these circumstances.  The Court grants the requests for sanctions
in part.  In light of the relatively
straightforward nature of these motions and the economies of scale associated with preparing
multiple discovery motions, the Court sets sanctions on each motion in the
amount of $675, based on one and a half hours of attorney time, multiplied by a
reasonable rate of $450 per hour for work of this nature. (See Thomas Decls., 8:7.)
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the Motions to Compel Plaintiff Marvin Sanders to
Respond to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Demand for Production (Set One).

The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve verified responses,
without objection, to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) within 21 days
of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve verified responses,
without objection, to Defendant’s Requests for Production (Set One) within 21
days of notice.
The Court GRANTS IN PART AND DENIES IN PART Defendant’s
requests for monetary sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Marvin Sanders and his attorney of record, Javid
Laknahour, Esq., Eslamboly Hakim, Esq., and the Law Offices of Eslamboly Hakim,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant under the Civil
Discovery Act in the amount of $1,350 ($675 per motion, multiplied by two
motions) within 30 days of notice.
Moving party is ORDERED to give
notice.
 