  Case Number:  22VECV00728    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  W ALBERT
BOYAJIAN V. SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS GP, ET AL.
 
DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        February 29, 2024                             Trial Date:       None
set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00728
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LLC, Lauren Steel, and Parris Boyd
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Albert Boyajian  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022, Plaintiff Albert Boyajian filed a
complaint against Defendants Surge Global Bakeries Holdings LLC, Surge Global
Bakeries Partners LP, Surge Global Bakeries Partners GP, LLC, Surge Private
Equity LLC, Surge Private Equity, McLarty Capital Partners SBIC II, LP, The
Firmament Group, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd,
Tobias Keller, Andy Burchfield, and Ashur Aghasi for (1) Limited Partner
Derivative Suit; (2) Limited Partner Derivative Suit; and for three direct
claims: (3) Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Breach of Contract; and (5) Breach of
Contract.
 
This action involves shareholder derivative and direct
claims by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he sold his profitable bakery for an
equity position in a parent entity, a place on the board of directors of his
former bakery (now a wholly-owned subsidiary), and a Consulting Agreement. However,
Plaintiff alleges he did not know, when he sold his company, that the purchase
was merely the first step of a lender’s scheme to exploit the company for the
lender’s benefit, entirely contrary to the best interests of the equity
holders. Plaintiff contends after the purchase, the company unwarrantedly
acquired an additional two companies and took on additional dramatic debt,
during periods of mismanagement by inept managers and the lender who controlled
the board. Moreover, since the takeover, Plaintiff alleges the lender has not
given plaintiff any information on the companies; and has not called a meeting
of the board. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendants
McLarty Capital Partners SBIC II, LLC, Lauren Steel, and Parris Boyd’s Demurrer
is OVERRULED in PART AND SUSTAINED IN PART. 

 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
McLarty Capital Partners SBIC II, LLC, Lauren Steel, and Parris Boyd (“Defendants”)
demur to the first and second causes of action on the grounds Boyajian lacks
standing, statute of limitations bars any breach of fiduciary duty, neither
Delaware nor California recognize a cause of action for Interference with
Corporate Governance, Plaintiff fails to adequately plead futility, and
Plaintiff has failed to allege Defendants’ conduct breached any fiduciary duty.

 
The
court briefly notes it may sustain the demurrer on alternative grounds
including different governing laws. (See City of Morgan Hill v. Bay Area Air
Quality Management Dist. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 861, 870.) 
 
Interference
with Corporate Governance 
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action (a derivative action interference with
corporate governance) on the grounds neither Delaware nor California law recognizes
a cause of action for interference with corporate governance. Defendants argue
no decision in either state addresses such a cause of action and neither the
Third Circuit Court of Appeals nor the District Court for the District of
Delaware have recognized such a cause of action under Delaware law. As a
result, Defendants contend this court should not recognize such a tort. According
to Defendants, the Corporations Code carefully lays out matters of corporate
governance, the duties owed by various persons involved in corporate governance
and causes of action for breaches of those duties.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues California as well as other jurisdictions have
long recognized that a lender may be liable for undue control of a business.
(See Credit Managers Association of Southern California v. Superior Court
(1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 352; Central Laborers’ Pension Fund v. McAfee (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 292; State Nat’l Bank of El Paso v. Farah Mfg. Co., Inc.
(Tex. Ct. App. 1984) 678 S.W.2d 661.)  
 
The
court finds Plaintiff can state a claim for interference with corporate
governance at this time. The cases by Defendants do not stand for the
proposition Plaintiff cannot allege a claim for interference with corporate
governance. Rather the cases cited show support for a claim of interference
with corporate governance claim. The court OVERRULES the demurrer on this
ground. 
 
Statute
of Limitations
 
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action (derivative action for breach of fiduciary
duty) on the grounds Delaware’s three-year statute of limitations bars any
breach of fiduciary claim based on conduct occurring prior to May 31, 2019. 
 
“Under
Delaware law, a three-year statute of limitations applies to claims for breach
of contract or breach of fiduciary duty. 10 Del. C. § 8106.” (Fike v. Ruger
(Del. Ch. 1999) 754 A.2d 254, 260.) 
 
Defendants
argue by May 2019 at the latest, Boyajian had actual notice of facts giving
rise to the cause of action, and the limitations period for a claim based on
these facts expired by the end of May 2022 at the absolute latest. Defendants
contend Plaintiff, however, did not file his complaint until May 31, 2022, so
it can only be supported by conduct occurring on or after May 31, 2019. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues allegations that events occurred “on or about” do
not support sustaining a demurrer based on a statute of limitations; rather, it
is enough that the claim may be timely. The court agrees. “[W]hen ‘a complaint
asserts a cause of action that on its face accrued outside the statute of
limitations,’ the plaintiffs have the burden to plead facts ‘leading to a
reasonable inference that one of the tolling doctrines adopted by Delaware
courts applies.’” (Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company v. Funk
(Del. Super. Ct., Dec. 22, 2014, No. CV N14C-04-199 PRW) 2014 WL 8623183, at *6.)
Similarly in California, “ ‘ “[a] demurrer on the ground of the bar of the statute
of limitations will not lie where an action may be, but is not necessarily
barred.” It must appear affirmatively that, upon the face of the complaint, the
right of action is necessarily barred.’” (Leasequip, Inc. v. Dapeer
(2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 394, 400.) In order for a court to sustain a demurrer
based on a statute of limitations defense, “ ‘the complaint [must allege] every
fact which the defendant would be required to prove if he were to plead the bar
of the applicable statute of limitation as an affirmative defense. [Citation.]’
” (Ibid., citing Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 881.) 
 
Here,
as noted by Plaintiff, some of the events alleged in the complaint may well
prove to have occurred later than the “on or about” date as currently asserted.
As such, Defendants have not sufficiently demonstrated on the face of the
complaint that the events absolutely occurred outside the statute of
limitations. Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer on the statute of
limitations grounds. 
 
Double
Derivative 
 
Defendants
demur to the two derivative actions (first and second cause of action) on behalf
of Holdings LLC on the grounds Boyajian lacks standing under California law
because California law does not allow a double derivative suit. Defendants cite
Corp. Code § 800; Kruss v. Booth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 699; and Heshejin
v. Rostami, 2018 WL 11226134, to support their contention. 
 
“’[B]y
its nature, a double derivative suit is one brought by a shareholder of a
parent corporation to enforce a claim belonging to a subsidiary that is either
wholly owned or majority controlled. Normally, such a claim is one that only
the parent corporation, acting through its board of directors, is empowered to
enforce. Cases may arise, however, where the parent corporation's board is
shown to be incapable of making an impartial business judgment regarding
whether to assert the subsidiary's claim. In those cases a shareholder of the
parent will be permitted to enforce that claim on the parent corporation's
behalf, that is, double derivatively.’ [Citation.]” (Villari v. Mozilo (2012)
208 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1478.) 
 
Defendants
argue Boyajian does not and cannot allege that he is a shareholder of Holdings
LLC. Instead, he alleges only that he holds equity interests in Parent LP,
which wholly-owns Holdings LLC. As such, he could only proceed as a double
derivative suit, which is not allowed in California. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s citations are to state trial court
decisions, with no appellate review. Such opinions are neither citable nor
precedential. (See Aixtron, Inc. v. Veeco Instruments, Inc. (2020) 52
Cal.App.5th 360, 399, citing Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a).) Moreover,
Plaintiff contends the Kruss court did not hold that “double-derivative”
suits are not allowed in California. Similarly, in Heshejin, the
appellate court affirmed a demurrer because the counterclaim plaintiffs failed
to bring a compulsory counterclaim; it did not consider whether California
recognizes double derivative suits.  
 
The
court agrees with Defendant that the current law in California does not
explicitly recognize a double derivative action. However, the Rutter Group
California Practice Guide—Corporations section 6:612.3 states that, “it is
unsettled in California whether a shareholder of a parent corporation has
standing to bring a derivative suit on behalf of its subsidiary - i.e., to
enforce the parents' right to sue derivatively for wrongs to the subsidiary.
However, courts applying California law appear to look favorably upon the
‘double derivative’ suit concept. (See generally, Gaillard v. Natomas Co. (1985)
173 CA 3d 410, 419, fn 7 In re Imperial Corp. of America (9th Cir. 1996)
92 F3d 1503, 1510 and fn 10)).” Hashejian’s own holding leaves double
derivative suits an open question in California. Accordingly, the court
OVERRULES the demurrer on these grounds. 
 
Standing
on behalf of Parent LP
 
Defendants
demur to the first two causes of action to the extent they are brought as
derivative actions on behalf of Surge Global Bakeries Parent LP (“Parent LP”)
because he is not a limited partner of Parent LP. Defendants argue although
Plaintiff alleges that he holds equity interests in Parent LP, the Asset
Purchase Agreement and Parent LP Agreement that Boyajian attached to the
Complaint belie that claim as they both show that Global Bakeries, Inc. is the
limited partner in Parent LP. Accordingly, only Global Bakeries, Inc. would
arguably have standing to bring a derivative suit on behalf of Parent LP. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues derivative suits can be brought by persons owning
“beneficial” shares of stock. (See, e.g., Pearce v. Superior Court
(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1058, 1067-1068 [trust beneficiary had standing to sue
derivatively]; see also, at 1062-1063 [same for partners whose shares were held
by partnership [dictum]]; Weingand v. Atlantic Sav. & Loan Assn.
(1970) 1 Cal.3d 806, 818-819 [pledgee of security interest in stock had
standing to assert derivative claims]; Reed v. Norman (1957) 48 Cal.2d
338, 341-342 [plaintiff whose stock was sold had standing, where stock sale was
forced and buyer took on behalf of plaintiff].) 
 
The
court agrees Plaintiff does not have standing to bring a derivative action on
behalf of Parent LP. Plaintiff does not dispute that Global Bakeries, Inc. is
the limited partner in Parent LP. Moreover, having a beneficial ownership in an
LP does not provide standing. As noted by Defendants, a derivative action may
be maintained only by a person that is a partner at the time the action
is commenced. (Corp. Code §15910.03.) Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED on
this basis.  The court does not believe
that amendment could cure this deficiency. 

 
Futility
 
Defendants
demur to the complaint on the grounds Boyajian does not sufficiently plead
demand futility. 
 
A
derivative suit plaintiff must allege that he made a demand on the corporation
to bring
the
lawsuit itself or that such demand would be futile. (See Cal. Corp. Code §§
800(b)(2),
15910.04;
Del. Chancery R. 23.1.)
 
Defendants
argue in this case, Boyajian does not allege that he made a demand on Parent
LP. Instead, he attempts to allege that such demand would have been futile,
which fails both under Delaware and California law. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues these allegations are sufficient as they
demonstrate futility in California and Delaware. In California, Plaintiff
contends there is a reasonable doubt that the general partner or any director
of Holdings LLC might be disinterested in and independent of the challenged
transactions, rather than acting as agents for the lender; or that the
challenged transaction was otherwise the product of a valid exercise of
business judgment, since the sale made no attempt to recover the substantial equipment
available or any money whatsoever. In Delaware, Plaintiff contends no general
partner was acting for Parent LP and the only directors of Holdings LLC were
principals and/or agents of McClarty, lacked independence from an entity which
received material personal benefit, or who faced a substantial likelihood of
liability.
 
Upon
examination of the complaint the court finds that the allegations are
sufficient to excuse a request upon the board. The complaint alleges “[a]t this
point, plaintiff is informed and believes that there is no general partner from
whom he could demand that suit be filed, rendering such a demand futile.
Moreover, the prior equity and/or board members would be unlikely to grant such
relief as it would require a vote to institute suit against themselves.”
(Compl. ¶5.) The complaint further alleges Plaintiff did not make any effort to
secure action from Parent LP’s general partner, GP LLC, in prosecuting this
action since any such effort would have been futile in that: GP LLC no longer
exists; Plaintiff, as a Board member of Holdings LLC, voted against the initial
acquisitions and was outvoted, was prevented from reviewing key corporate
records, and was not given any notice of the sale of Bubbles and Better,
demonstrating that the Holdings LLC Board members were unwilling to bring this
action; if GP LLC exists, it was dominated by Defendants; Defendants personally
benefitted from the conduct alleged; and in order to bring this action, the Defendants
would be required to make statements on the record which could result in their
individual exposure. (Compl. ¶63.) This is sufficient. Accordingly, the court
overrules the demurrer on these grounds. 
 
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty 
 
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action on the grounds Boyajian fails to allege the
Firmament Defendants’ conduct breached any fiduciary duty.    
 
Under
Delaware and California law, a claim for breach of fiduciary duty requires
showing “(1) that a fiduciary duty existed and (2) that the defendant breached
that duty.” (Beard Research, Inc. v. Kates (Del. Ch. 2010) 8 A.3d 573,
601; see also Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
820.) 
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to allege SBIC owed a fiduciary duty to Holdings LLC and
none of the allegations overcome the business judgment rule. In reply,
Defendants concede Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the existence of a
fiduciary duty. However, Defendants remain steadfast that Boyajian does not
sufficiently factually or legally allege a breach. Defendants argue Boyajian
does not allege that the acquisition of either Bubbles or Better was beyond the
“bounds of reason,” or plead facts making “the board’s decision … irrational,
unsound, or unreasonable”. Moreover, Boyajian does not allege that he actually
requested the documents or that any of the Defendants specifically took any steps
to block his request and terminating officers is a classic business judgment.
Lastly, Boyajian does not allege any conflict because Holdings LLC sold to a
competitor, not an interested party or insider. Given his allegations that
“Bubbles and Better continued to lose money,” it is within the bounds of reason
for Holdings LLC to sell underperforming assets for nominal value.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the presumption fails because it may be rebutted
depending on further factual development and Defendants’ cases do not establish
that Defendants are entitled to a decision sustaining their demurrer. Plaintiff
further argues the allegations in the complaint clearly show Defendants and its
lenders irrationally overextending Holdings LLC’s borrowing; Plaintiff was not
given information on key company business; McClarty, through Steel, Boyd, and
Keller, ultimately took over and ran the business operations of Parent LP and Holdings
LLC completely, fired personnel, and sold assets all without board action; and the
lender and its agent did not tell the company’s director that these sales were
to occur, let alone at a price of one dollar, despite the companies having
substantial equipment or other assets.
 
The
other way to excuse demand futility is by pleading that the challenged
transaction was otherwise the product of valid corporate business judgment. (Bader
v. Anderson (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 775, 797.) Under Rales v. Blasband
(Del. 1993) 634 A.2d 927, 934, “a court must determine whether or not the
particularized factual allegations of a derivative stockholder complaint create
a reasonable doubt that, as of the time the complaint is filed, [a majority of]
the board of directors could have properly exercised its independent and
disinterested business judgment in responding to a demand. If the derivative
plaintiff satisfies this burden, then demand will be excused as futile.” 
 
The
court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a breach. Taking Plaintiff’s
allegations as true, selling Bubbles and Better for $1 and preventing him from
obtaining critical documents can show lack of due care.  Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer
on these grounds. 