 Case Number:  22VECV02299    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  W KAREN SORONOW,
et al. v. SUNSHINE'S PLACE II, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion for protective
order
 
Date of Hearing:        February
29, 2024                 Trial Date:       December
9, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02299
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Karen
Soronow
Responding Party:     Defendant
Sunshine’s Place II                      
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow filed a
complaint on December 6, 2022 against Defendant Sunshine’s Place, II alleging
(1) Wrongful Death – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (2)
Survival – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (3) Wrongful Death
– Negligence; (4) Survival – Negligence; and (5) Elder Abuse. Plaintiff alleges
her mother, Joyce Soronow, was a resident of Sunshine’s Place, II. While under
Sunshine’s care, Plaintiff alleges failed to provide for her basic needs,
caused a lapse in her care, and inflicted terrible pain and suffering that
caused Joyce’s fatal injuries. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Protective Order is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Soronow moves the court to
enter a protective order directing that Plaintiff does not have to respond to
Defendant Sunshine’s Place II’s third set of requests for admission. Plaintiff
makes the motion on the grounds that Defendant has not justified discovery in
excess of the presumptive limit of 35 RFAs and the RFAs are otherwise unduly
burdensome.
 
Subject to the right of the responding
party to seek a protective order, any party who attaches a supporting
declaration as described in Section 2033.050 may request a greater number of
admissions if the greater number is warranted by the complexity or the quantity
of the existing and potential issues in the particular case. (CCP §
2033.040(a).)  If the responding party seeks a protective order on the
ground that the number of requests for admission is unwarranted, the
propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the number of requests
for admission. (CCP § 2033.040(b).) When requests for admission have
been made, the responding party may promptly move for a protective order. This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (CCP
§2033.080(a).) 
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant has failed
to meet its burden to justify the excessive number of RFAs and moreover, a
protective order is still necessary because the RFAs are unduly burdensome.
Plaintiff contends the RFAs are of minimal probative value because they are
largely cumulative and duplicative of one another as well as RFAs that
Plaintiff has already responded to. Accordingly,
Plaintiff contends Defendant indiscriminately seeks much of the same
information from Plaintiff that it already has from its first and second sets
of RFAs and corresponding FROGs. Responding to this set of RFAs would require
Plaintiff to review, audit, and extract information from her prior responses
and essentially repeat it for Defendant. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Defendant's
declaration is sufficient as it explains that the additional RFAs were
necessary due to the complexity of this matter. This is more than sufficient to
justify the additional RFAs given the nuances of the timeline of the decedent's
care between November 22, 2020 and December 6, 2020. Defendant further contends
that in efforts of acting in good faith and in the spirit of discovery,
Defendant has provided code compliant responses agreeing that the matter is
complex in nature yet Plaintiff is now claiming Defendant's reason that the
matter is complex is not enough.
 
The court denies the motion for
protective order. The declaration attached to the RFAs includes the boiler
plate language set forth under Section 2033.050, but does not include an
explanation of why the case is complex and why the complexity warrants the
issuance of more than 35 RFAs. However, the opposition present facts that
demonstrate that the complexity of the case warrants additional RFAs including
Defendant’s care of the decedent during the height of COVID and Plaintiff’s
repeated decision to not seek emergency care for her mother. Moreover, the
court finds the RFAS are not unduly burdensome. Although the RFAs are akin to
one another, they are not quite the same and do not burden Plaintiff by
answering. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Protective Order is DENIED. 
 
 