 Case Number:  23VECV04745    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  W CARY JARRETT
KIEVMAN v. WESTLAKE PROPERTIES INC., et al.
 
shady hatem
hassan’s motion for leave to file cross-complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        February 29, 2024                 Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV04745
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Shady Hatem Hassan  
Responding Party:     No opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff Carry
Jarrett Kievman filed a complaint against Westlake Properties Inc.; Westlake
Village Inn; The Terrace at Bogies; Anthony Gomez; and Shady Hatem Hassan for 1.
General Negligence; 2. Premises Liability; 3. Providing Alcohol to Obviously
Intoxicated Minors; 4. Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of Employee;
and 5. Battery. Plaintiff alleges while at Bogies, Plaintiff’s body touched a
nearby female patron either intentionally or accidentally. Thereafter, the female
patron informed other unknown individuals that Plaintiff had touched her.
Plaintiff alleges as Plaintiff was retreating to get away, he was violently
pushed by another unknown patron and at some point, Defendants Gomez and Hassan
rushed Plaintiff, knocked him to the ground, and began violently attacking him
by punching him, kicking him, and stomping on him. Plaintiff alleges at least
Defendants Gomez and Hassan were under the age of 21 at the time of the
incident. 
 
On December 28, 2023, Westlake
Properties, Inc. doing business as Westlake Village Inn (erroneously named as
The Terrace at Bogies) filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 10 for
indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
 
On June 9, 2023, this action was
related to LASC No. 23VECV02540 (Farid Mohandesi v. Bogies The Terrace, et
al.) 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Shady Hatem Hassan’s Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Shady Hassan move the court
for leave to file a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff Cary Jarrett Kievman and
Roes 1 through 10. 
 
Where a defendant wishes to assert a
“related cause of action” against plaintiff, it must do so in a
cross-complaint. Failure to plead it will bar defendant from asserting it in a
later lawsuit. (CCP § 426.10 [“‘Related cause of action’ means a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.”].) 
 
A cross-complaint against plaintiff may
be filed as a matter of right if it is filed before or at the same time as the
answer. (CCP § 428.50(a).) Otherwise, leave of court must be obtained. (CCP §
428.50(c).) Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during
the course of¿the action.¿(Id., § 428.50(c).) Indeed, where a cause of
action would otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party
was negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.¿ “The legislative
mandate is clear.¿ A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.”¿ Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 (Silver
Orgs).¿[“Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other
cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad
faith.”]; Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718 [a
“strong showing of bad faith” is required].)  
 
The court finds Defendant Hassan is
entitled to file the proposed Cross-Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 426.50. Defendant Hassan attempted to file a Cross-Complaint
on December 5, 2023 for assault and battery. (Hassan Decl. ¶4.) However, on
December 8, 2023, Hassan was informed his Cross-Complaint was rejected due to a
filing error, and therefore, his Cross-Complaint would not be timely filed and
a court order was necessary. (Hassan Decl. ¶7.) The Cross-Complaint arises out
of the incident that occurred at Westlake Village Inn. This motion is being
made at the start of the lawsuit with no trial date set and no CMC yet to
occur. Plaintiff filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to Defendant’s motion. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Shady Hatem
Hassan’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 