  Case Number:  22PSCV01792    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT (FAC) is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law case. 
 
On November 14, 2022, Plaintiff David Shakhbazyan filed suit
against Defendants MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC (“Mercedes-Benz”); ENVISION WC MB
AUTO d/b/a MERCEDES-BENZ OF WEST COVINA (“Envision”) for four causes action
(COAs): 1.    
Breach of Implied Warranty 2.    
Breach of Express Warranty 3.    
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act 4.    
Violation of Uniform Commercial Code
 
On April 3, 2023, Mercedes-Benz filed its answer.
 
On June 20, 2023, Envision filed its answer.
 
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, in
furtherance of justice and on any proper terms, allow a party to amend any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v.
Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.)
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for
judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”
(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1047.) “[I]t
is irrelevant that new legal theories are introduced as long as the proposed
amendments ‘relate to the same general set of facts.’” (Id. at p. 1048,
internal citation omitted.) 
 
That said, the court may
deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. (Kolani, supra, 64 Cal.App.4th at p. 411.) 
 
Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)[1]

A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).)[2]  
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for an order granting leave to file a FAC to
(1) dismiss against Envision the claims for breach of express and implied
warranty; violation of the Song-Beverly Act; and violation of the Uniform
Commercial Code, and (2) to add claims against Envision for fraudulent
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of contract, violation
of Bus. & Prof. Code§ 17200, and violation of California's Consumer Legal
Remedies Act. (Motion p. 1:21-27.) 
 
Plaintiff brings forth the motion on the following grounds:
On April 15, 2020, Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle, which was sold as a
“new” vehicle and covered under a full new vehicle express warranty. In fact,
Envision submitted to the California DMV an application for the registration of
a new vehicle and, likewise, Plaintiff signed an MSRP Sticker Removal
Authorization, which only occurs in conjunction with the purchase of a new
vehicle. Accordingly, the representations demonstrated that Envision sold a new
vehicle. But after the vehicle experienced problems, Plaintiff learned that the
three-year warranty was “expired,” leading to Plaintiff filing the instant
lawsuit. During the discovery process, evidence came to light that Envision
defrauded Plaintiff and other purchasers that vehicles were new when the
vehicles were not new. In support of its allegations of fraud, Plaintiff, in
addition to other exhibits, provides the Lease Application, which, in a section
not previously disclosed to Plaintiff, states the vehicle is, in fact, a
"used" vehicle. (See generally Motion pp. 2-3, see also Starr Decl.,
Exs. 1-4.) 
 
Thus, though the amendment seeks to introduce new legal
theories, the proposed amendments relate to the same general set of facts,
which minimizes concerns of prejudice and merely “make the original cause[s] of
action complete." (Motion p. 4, quoting Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558 565.) 
 
Therefore, abiding by the rule of great liberality in
granting a plaintiff leave to amend an original complaint. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is granted. 


