  Case Number:  20STCV36701    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Department 40 
 



ROSALINDA GALVEZ,  
 
Plaintiff, 
 
v. 
 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al, 
 
Defendants.
 
 


  Case No.:         20STCV36701
 
  Hearing Date:  12/11/23 
 
  Trial Date:       8/20/24 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
 
Defendants University
  of Southern California and Keck Medical Center of USC’s Motion for Summary
  Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication. 
 



 
Background 
 
This is a medical malpractice action.  Plaintiff
Rosalinda Galvez (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was under the direct care of
Defendants University of Southern California (“USC”); Keck Medicine of USC;
Keck Hospital of USC; Keck School of Medicine of USC; Niels Kokot, M.D.; John
Carmichael, M.D.; Sebina Bulic, M.D.; Efrain Martinez-Alvernia, Res.; Janet
Choi, Res.; Clay Wu, Res.; Rajkumar Dasgupta, M.D.; Trevor Angell, M.D.; Reshma
Patel, Res.; Braden Barnet, M.D.; Alyssa Lampe, Res.; Okeefe Simmons, Res.; Andrew
Ippoliti, M.D.; Saeed Kalantari, Res.; Peggy Nguyen, M.D.; Benjamin Emanuel,
D.O.; Joshua Bakhsheshian, Res.; Frank Attenelo, M.D.; Oliver Gantz, Res.; Zhipeng Zhang, Res.; Alexander
Markarian, M.D.; Ronica Yalamanchili, Res.; Salina Teja, M.D.; Jing Shan, Res., and
Does 1 through 30 (collectively “Defendants”) from May 29, 2019 to August 19,
2019.  Plaintiff alleges that while under the care of Defendants,
Defendants told her she had cancer, but never advised her that the tumor that
was the basis of the cancer diagnosis was benign.  Plaintiff alleges
Defendants also never obtained informed consent from her regarding the proposed
treatment to be administered or any alternatives and unilaterally administered
treatment, including steroid treatment.  Plaintiff further alleges that,
on or about June 3, 2019, she suffered heart failure due to diabetic
ketoacidosis and respiratory distress from Defendants’ administration of a
large amount of insulin and/or steroids and as a result, had to be
intubated.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants punctured and ripped portions of
Plaintiff’s tongue during the intubation procedure, resulting in significant
blood loss and permanent damage and disfigurement of her tongue. 
 
On September 25, 2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants for (1) professional negligence (medical malpractice); (2) negligent
hiring and retention; (3) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (4) respondeat superior
(vicarious liability); and (5) breach of fiduciary duty. 
  
On October 5, 2021, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint. 
 
On December 10, 2021, the Court sustained with leave to
amend Defendant Keck Medical Center of USC’ Demurrer to Plaintiffs First
Amended Complaint’s second cause of action for negligent hiring and retention. 
 
On January 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) professional
negligence (medical malpractice); (2) failure to obtain informed consent; and
(3) breach of fiduciary duties. 
 
On July 6, 2022, Defendants University of Southern
California and Keck Medical Center of USC moved for summary judgment or summary
adjudication toward the claims against them in the Second Amended Complaint. 
 
On September 26, 2023, Defendants University of Southern
California and Keck Medical Center of USC filed an Amended Motion for Summary
Judgment.  Plaintiff has opposed and moving
Defendants have replied.  
 
Summary Judgment, or in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication 
 
Summary Adjudication Legal Standard: “The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.) 
 
As
to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of
action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) \
 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)  To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint sets forth two causes of action
against moving Defendants—professional negligence (medical malpractice) and
failure to obtain informed consent.
 
First Cause of Action, Professional Negligence (Medical Malpractice): GRANTED. 
 
Defendants move for summary judgment or summary adjudication on the
grounds that Plaintiff’s causes of action for medical malpractice fails to
raise a triable issue of material fact because the care and treatment complied
with the requisite standard of care, and that no act or omission by Defendants
caused Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.  
 
In
a medical negligence action, a plaintiff must establish the following elements:
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as
other members of [the] profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach
of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct
and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional’s negligence.”  (Galvez
v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4tha 1410, 1420; Simmons v. West Covina
Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02.)  “Both the standard of care and defendants’
breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a medical
malpractice case.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008), 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
A
medical professional breaches the duty of professional care by failing to act
in accordance with the prevailing industry standard of care.  (See Folk v. Kilk (1975) 53 Cal.App.3d
176, 186.)  “The standard of care against
which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within
the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by their testimony …, unless the conduct required by the
particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’”  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d
399, 410.)
 
A
defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action must
“present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from finding
that it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the standard
of care.”  (Johnson v. Super. Ct.
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.)  “When
a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports [the] motion with expert
declarations that [their] conduct fell within the community standard of care,
[the defendant] is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes
forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v. Regents of University of
California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider. (Starr v. Mooslin (1971)
14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.) 
 
Here,
Defendants present the declaration of Richard L. Ruffalo, M.D. (“Dr. Ruffalo”),
a physician licensed to practice medicine in California who is board certified
in anesthesiology and advanced cardiac life support.  (Declaration of Richard L. Ruffalo, M.D.
(“Ruffalo Decl.”), ¶¶ 2,4.)  Dr. Ruffalo
is familiar with the applicable standard of care within the professional
community in Southern California as it applies to anesthesiology.  (Ruffalo Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Dr.
Ruffalo testifies that the materials he has reviewed include the operative
complaint and Plaintiff’s medical records from Keck Medicine of USC.  (Id. at ¶ 6.)  Dr. Ruffalo recounts that Plaintiff was
admitted to Mountain View Hospital on May 27, 2019 due to complaints of left
frontal headaches that were progressively worsening.  (Id. at ¶ 8(a).)  Plaintiff received immediate and appropriate
care beginning on her initial transfer from Mountain View Hospital to USC on
May 27, 2019, until her discharge from USC on August 19, 2019.  (Id. at ¶ 9(a).)  
 
On
June 3, 2019, Plaintiff went into respiratory failure requiring
medication-assisted treatment, including emergent intubation and full vent
support due to acute encephalopathy from diabetic ketoacidosis. Bassam
Yaghmour, M.D. (“Dr. Yaghmour”) and Peter Chung, M.D. (“Dr. Chung”) performed
the endotracheal intubation procedure on Plaintiff. Dr. Wu performed the
arterial line insertion procedure. 
Plaintiff was reported to have tolerated the procedure well and it was
noted that Plaintiff did not have any complications.  Plaintiff was deemed critically ill with the
following active issues: acute hypoxemic respiratory failure requiring
intubation with full vent support; acute metabolic acidosis/lactic
acidosis/diabetic ketoacidosis; and acute encephalopathy/brain mass/cerebral
edema.  Plaintiff was subsequently moved
to the ICU.  This was an emergent
lifesaving treatment that was appropriately performed within the standard of
care and any reasonable person would consent to this treatment.  (Id. at ¶ 9(b).)  
 
On
June 4, 2019, Plaintiff went into acute respiratory failure.  During this time, Plaintiff had an inability
to clear her secretions and a loss of protective reflexes.  Dr. Wu performed an endotracheal intubation
procedure.  Dr. Wu also reintubated
Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s failed ventilation and respiratory distress. (Id.
at ¶ 9(c).)  Following this procedure,
Dr. Wu monitored Plaintiff frequently.  (Id.
at ¶ 9(d).)  
 
On
June 6, 2019, Dr. Wu and Ricardo Juarez, M.D. (“Dr. Juarez”) examined Plaintiff
and noted that Plaintiff’s endotracheal tube was secured.  Plaintiff’s endotracheal tube secretions and
oral secretions were noted to be minimal. 
Following Plaintiff’s surgery, Dr. Wu appropriately ordered a radiology
examination of Plaintiff’s chest view due to Plaintiff being intubated.  No negative impressions regarding the
endotracheal tube were noted.   (Id.
at ¶ 9(e).)  
 
On
June 13, 2019, Dr. Wu and Dr. Juarez noted that Plaintiff had a swollen tongue
and some ulcers on her tongue.  Dr. Wu
and Dr. Juarez recommended Plaintiff to undergo a percutaneous tracheostomy due
to upper airway edema, specifically the tongue swelling, to which Plaintiff
agreed.  Dr. Wu changed Plaintiff’s
ventilator mode for the bedside tracheostomy. 
Dr. Wu, Dr. Yaghmour, and Lucas Cruz, M.D. (“Dr. Cruz”) subsequently
performed a surgical percutaneous tracheostomy placement on Plaintiff due to
her respiratory failure.  Plaintiff was
reported not to have active bleeding following her tracheostomy.  It was further reported that Plaintiff
tolerated the procedure well and there were no immediate complications
reported.  (Id. at ¶ 9(f).)  
 
Based
on Dr. Ruffalo’s review of the materials, education, knowledge, training, and
experience, Dr. Ruffalo opines to a reasonable degree of medical certainty that
moving Defendants and its medical providers complied with the requisite
standard of care.  (Id. at ¶
9.)  It is also Dr. Ruffalo’s opinion
that no negligent action or omission by Defendants caused or contributed  to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries and
damages.  (Id. at ¶¶ 9-10.)  
 
Further,
Defendants present the declaration of Steven Edelman, M.D. (“Dr. Edelman”), a
physician licensed to practice in California who is board certified in internal
medicine and has actively practiced in the field of endocrinology since
completing residency.  (Declaration of
Steven Edelman, M.D.  (“Edelman Decl.”),
¶¶ 2, 4.)  Dr. Edelman is familiar with
the applicable standard of care relating to the practice of endocrinology and
the claims set forth in this case. 
(Edelman Decl., ¶5.) 
 
Dr.
Edelman testifies that the materials he has reviewed include the operative
complaint and Plaintiff’s medical records from Keck Medicine of USC.  (Ibid.)  Dr. Edelman recounts that Plaintiff was
admitted to Mountain View Hospital on May 27, 2019 due to complaints of left
frontal headaches that were progressively worsening.  (Id. at ¶ 7(a).)  Plaintiff received immediate and appropriate
care beginning on her initial transfer from Mountain View Hospital on May 27 up
until her discharge from USC on August 19. 
(Id. at ¶ 8(a).) 
 
Defendants
made a correct presumptive diagnosis, before definitive lab work was completed,
of a large pituitary tumor (macroadenoma)which was later proven to be
correct.  This early evaluation of her
differential diagnosis was important and led to a successful outcome.  (Id. at ¶ 8(b).)  
 
Throughout
her hospital course, Defendants ordered multiple head scans (CT and MRI) for
Plaintiff to monitor her progress after cabergoline was initiated. Defendants
made the appropriate decision to not send the patient to surgery because of the
extreme mass of the lesion and that it was encasing the carotid arteries.  Her prolactin went from 73,00 to near normal
at the time of her discharge on August 19. 
(Id. at ¶ 8(c).)  
 
Plaintiff’s
hospital admission was complicated by diabetic ketoacidosis most likely brought
on by the need to use steroids to reduce tumor size as she was experiencing
emergent neurologic symptoms.  Plaintiff
did have a history of glucose intolerance which put her at risk as well as her
having sepsis early on as reported in the medical records.  She was treated in the ICU appropriately with
insulin, fluids, and laboratory monitoring data with no sequalae.  (Id. at ¶ 8(d).)  
 
The
ICU team along with the critical care physicians attended to her respiratory
failure appropriately, which quite frankly saved her life.  Had she been in a small community hospital
without the support staff that USC has, she may have had a poor outcome.  (Id. at ¶ 8(e).)  
 
In
addition, her macroglossia was assessed appropriately by an ENT physician who
did an oral exam as well as a bilateral nasal endoscopy.  Although the exact etiology of her tongue
issue was never determined except perhaps self-induced by tongue biting, she
was examined multiple times during her visit, monitored closely, and ultimately
improved.  No matter what the etiology of
her tongue swelling was, she received very appropriate care.  (Id. at ¶ 8(f).)
 
Based
on Dr. Edelman’s review of the materials, education, knowledge, training, and
experience, Dr. Edelman opines that moving Defendants and its medical providers
complied with the requisite standard of care. 
(Id. at ¶ 8.)  It is also
Dr. Edelman’s opinion that no negligent action or omission by Defendants caused
or contributed  to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries and damages.  (Id. at ¶¶
8-9.)  
 
The
foregoing is “evidence which, if uncontradicted, would constitute a
preponderance of evidence that an essential element of the plaintiff’s case
cannot be established.”  (Kids’
Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 870, 879.)  The expert opinions of Dr. Ruffalo and Dr.
Edelman are evidence that moving Defendants complied with their duties under
California law and the standard of care for a reasonably careful medical
professional under similar circumstances.  The expert opinions are also evidence that no
acts or omissions by moving Defendants caused or contributed to the alleged
injuries of Plaintiff.  With this
evidence, Defendants have satisfied their initial burden of showing that one or
more elements of each of the causes of action in the FAC cannot be established.
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
 
This
shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show that there is a triable issue of one or
more material facts as to the causes of action.  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
has failed to make this showing because Plaintiff has submitted no expert
declaration or other competent evidence rebutting the Dr. Ruffalo and Dr.
Edelman’s declarations.  Instead,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ expert declarations are based on inadmissible
hearsay because they are based on Plaintiff’s medical records.  That is not the case.  Authenticated hospital and medical records
can be admitted under the business records exception to the hearsay rule.  (Garibay v. Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
735, 741.)  Plaintiff also argues that
Defendants’ experts failed to address a laceration on Plaintiff’s tongue.  However, that is also not the case.  Dr. Ruffalo and Dr. Edelman testified that
they reviewed the medical records and rendered their opinions on Plaintiff’s
claims concerning her tongue in reaching their conclusions.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
motion for summary judgment will be granted as to Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for professional negligence (medical malpractice). 
 
Second Cause of Action, Failure to Obtain Informed Consent: GRANTED. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
failure to obtain informed consent fails to raise a triable issue of material
fact because Plaintiff consented to the treatment, and or a reasonable person
in Plaintiff’s position would have consented to the treatment.  
 
The necessary elements for lack of
informed consent are: (1) the defendant performed a medical procedure on her;
(2) the defendant failed to disclose certain information to her that was
material to her decision when soliciting her consent to a medical procedure;
(3) a reasonable person in the plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to
the procedure if she had been adequately informed; and (4) breach of the duty
to disclose certain information caused damaged to the plaintiff.  (See Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164; Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316,
324 [“A claim based on lack of informed consent—which sounds in negligence—arises
when the doctor performs a procedure without first adequately disclosing the
risks and alternatives”]; Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 245
[“There must be a causal relationship between the physician’s failure to inform
and the injury to the plaintiff.  Such
causal connection arises only if it is established that had revelation been
made consent to treatment would not have been given”].)  
Like the standard of care defense in traditional medical
malpractice actions, a doctor defending a claim that his patient lacked
informed consent may assert a defense that the relevant disclosure “was not
required within his medical community.”  (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, 240.)  The rationale underlying the applicability of the
standard of care defense to lack of informed consent claims is that the tort of
lack of informed consent sounds in negligence.  (See id. at pp.
240-241.)
 
Here, Dr. Ruffalo’s expert declaration includes his
testimony that this was an emergency lifesaving treatment that was
appropriately performed within the standard of care and any reasonable person
would consent to this treatment. 
(Ruffalo Decl., ¶ 9(b).) 
Defendants’ submitted evidence also shows that when Plaintiff was
admitted to Keck Medical Center of USC, she signed consent forms indicating
that she consented to care and treatment provided by Defendants including
lifesaving treatment.  (Separate Statement
of Undisputed Material Fact ¶ 345.)    
 
Because Defendants
provide credible expert witness testimony from a doctor knowledgeable in the
relevant field stating that Defendants met the applicable standard of care and
any reasonable person would consent to the lifesaving treatment, and because
Plaintiff has presented no expert witness testimony in response, Defendants’
motion for summary judgment will be granted as to Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for failure to obtain informed consent.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants University of Southern California and Keck
Medical Center of USC’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative
Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. 