  Case Number:  24TRCV00620    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike   Moving  Party: Defendant  General Motors LLC                     Responding Party: Plaintiff Ray Pellegrino   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s  demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff Ray Pellegrino (“Defendant”) filed a  complaint against General Motors, LLC (“Defendants”) and DOES 1-10, inclusive  alleging causes of action for (1) violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code §  1793.2; (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (3) violation  of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (4) breach of the implied  warranty of merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment.   On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging  the same causes of action.   On October 14, Defendant filed a demurrer to the FAC and a motion to  strike. Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 1, 2024. Defendant filed a  reply on November 4, 2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On January  23, 2015, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Defendant regarding a  2015 Cadillac Escalade (the “Vehicle”). (FAC, ¶ 6.) The Vehicle was purchased  at one of Defendant’s authorized dealers. (FAC, ¶ 6.)   On  September 27, 2016, Plaintiff brought the Vehicle to an authorized repair  facility, citing various concerns, including electrical issues. (FAC, ¶ 21.) The  repair facility represented that the Vehicle had been repaired. (FAC, ¶ 21.)   On  November 1, 2018, Plaintiff again brought the Vehicle to a repair facility for  steering, infotainment, electrical, and structural concerns. (FAC, ¶ 22.) The  repair facility represented that the issues had been resolved. (FAC, ¶ 22.)   Plaintiff  brought the Vehicle in for repairs another four times. (FAC, ¶¶ 23-26.) Each  time, the repair facility represented that the issues had been fixed. (FAC, ¶  23-26.)   Plaintiff  alleges that Defendant committed fraud by allowing the Vehicle to be sold to  Plaintiff with the knowledge that its 8-speed transmission was defective. (FAC,  ¶ 65.) Defendant acquired its knowledge of the transmission issues from sources  not available to Plaintiff, including early consumer complaints sent directly  to Defendant, pre and post-production testing data, and aggregate warranty data  compiled by Defendant’s network of dealers. (FAC, ¶ 68.)   Prior to  Plaintiff's purchase of the Vehicle, Defendant released a series of internal  bulletins to its dealers, but not its customers, referring to the 8-speed  transmission as a “neck snapper.” (FAC, ¶ 70.) Further, Defendant’s employees acknowledged  customer frustration regarding the transmission issues internally, but  Defendant declined to fix the issue due to costs. (FAC, ¶ 70-71.) Despite  knowledge of the safety risks, Defendant actively concealed the defects by  advising complaining customers that poor shifts were “normal.” (FAC, ¶ 70.)   Plaintiff  alleges that he is a reasonable customer who interacted with sales  representatives and considered Defendant’s advertising materials before  purchasing the Vehicle. (FAC, ¶ 69.) Had he been aware of the transmission  defect, he would not have purchased the Vehicle. (FAC, ¶ 69.) Defendant had an  ongoing duty to disclose the defective transmission because of its superior and  exclusive knowledge. (FAC, ¶ 76.) Plaintiff could not have reasonably  discovered the defects prior to the purchase. (FAC, ¶ 76.) In fact, Plaintiff  only discovered the wrongful conduct shortly before the filing of the  complaint. (FAC, ¶ 28.)   Defendant  now moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. Defendant also  demurs to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment.              LEGAL STANDARD             A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the  complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be  sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot  reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be  admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury  v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A  demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic  matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the  pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is  whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.  747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or  conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of  America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)    Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be  alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.  California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading  subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)   DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action on the grounds that  it is time-barred, and Plaintiff failed to allege a transactional relationship  giving rise to a duty to disclose. Defendant seeks to strike Plaintiff’s  request for punitive damages because they are not recoverable under the  Song-Beverly Act. Further, Plaintiff has failed to plead fraud, oppression, or  malice with specificity.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Plaintiff’s FAC does not have dates anywhere on its face, and thus a  statute of limitations defense is inappropriate. Even if it did, the discovery  rule, equitable estoppel, and fraudulent concealment delay the tolling of the  statute of limitations. Plaintiff argues that he has sufficiently pleaded fraud,  and so her prayer for punitive damages is actionable.    Reply Argument   Defendant reiterates that Plaintiff’s claim is time-barred, and Defendant  had no duty to disclose. Because Plaintiff has not stated a claim for fraud,  his request for punitive damages must fail.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Meet and Confer   Before  filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in  person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the  pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining  whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading  that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) Motions to strike have a similar meet and confer  requirement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)    Defense  counsel declares that the parties met telephonically but were unable to reach  an agreement. The court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and  confer requirements.    B.  Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent  Inducement - Concealment   To state a claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, a  plaintiff must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or suppressed a material  fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose the fact to the  plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact  with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of  the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or  suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the concealment or suppression of the  fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,  Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.)   Absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties, a  duty to disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had  exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed  the material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also  suppressing the material fact. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at  311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Such  circumstances “presuppose[  ] the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant  in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (LiMandri,  supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337.) The California  Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty  to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler,  supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los  Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve  fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC  (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where  plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim  defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a  relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction  between the parties”].)   1.  Failure to State a Cause of Action   To  properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the  names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their  authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it  was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.  (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)     A concealment  cause of action has a more relaxed specificity requirement as compared to  affirmative misrepresentations because a concealment claim does not assert that  Defendant actively or affirmatively defrauded the public in general of  Plaintiff in particular.  The rule of specifically pleading how, when,  where, to whom and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated is  intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to  concealment.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning  Assn, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356 at 1384.)    Thus, the  court is not persuaded that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action  because he does not name a particular employee that perpetrated the fraud. Here,  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had exclusive access to information about the  transmission defect and shared that information internally, while actively  concealing it from customers. Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant told  its dealers to inform customers that any shift issues were “normal.” Plaintiff  would not have purchased the Vehicle if he had known about the defect. The  court finds that these allegations are sufficient to sustain a fraudulent  concealment action.   2.  Transactional Relationship   Defendant  also demurs on the basis that Plaintiff failed to allege a transactional  relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose. In support, Defendant primarily  relies on Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, which  held that, absent a fiduciary duty, a duty to disclose only arises when there  is a transaction between the parties. Defendant argues that Plaintiff entered  into a transaction with its dealer, not Defendant itself.   As is  relevant here, “[a] duty to disclose a material fact can arise if … (3) the  material facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows  those facts are not known or reasonably discoverable by plaintiff (i.e.,  exclusive knowledge); (4) the defendant makes representations but fails to  disclose other facts that materially qualify the facts disclosed or render the  disclosure misleading (i.e., partial concealment); or (5) defendant actively  conceals discovery of material fact from plaintiff (i.e., active concealment).”   (Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc.  (2024) 17 Cal. 5th 1, 40 (internal citations omitted).)  These circumstances “presuppose a preexisting  relationship between the parties, such as “between seller and buyer, employer  and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind  of contractual agreement.  All of these  relationships are created by transactions between parties from which a duty to  disclose facts material to the transaction arises under certain circumstances…Such  a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff  and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at  large.” (Id. at 40-41 (internal citations omitted).)   Due to the  vagaries of California law, automobiles manufactured by General Motors are sold  by franchisees who purchase a vehicle and then sell that vehicle to the  consumer. A manufacturer “may not compete with their franchisees in the sale,  lease, or warranty service of new motor vehicles.” (Veh. Code § 11713.3(o).)  This has the effect of limiting the  contractual relationship between the consumer and the manufacturer to those  obligations that arise under the new car warranty.  Therefore, for the purposes of fraudulent  inducement claims, there is no duty to the consumer from the manufacturer.   The court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to create a duty  to disclose. 3.  Statute of Limitations   Defendant  argues that Code Civ. Proc. section 338, subd. (d) imposes a three-year statute  of limitations for fraud claims. Plaintiff argues that any statute of  limitation was tolled due to the fraudulent concealment.   “The  statute of limitations usually commences when a cause of action accrues, and it  is generally said that an action accrues on the date of injury. Alternatively,  it is often stated that the statute commences upon the occurrence of the last  element essential to the cause of action. These general principles have been  significantly modified by the common law ‘discovery rule,’ which provides that  the accrual date may be delayed until the plaintiff is aware of her injury and  its negligent cause.” (Bernson v. Browning-Ferris Indus. (1994) 7  Cal.4th 926, 931.)    “A close  cousin of the discovery rule is the well accepted principle of fraudulent  concealment. It has long been establihed that the defendant's fraud in  concealing a cause of action against him tolls the applicable statute of  limitations, but only for that period during which the claim is undiscovered by  plaintiff or until such time as plaintiff, by the exercise of reasonable  diligence, should have discovered it. Like the discovery rule, the rule of  fraudulent concealment is an equitable principle designed to effect substantial  justice between the parties; its rationale is that the culpable defendant  should be estopped from profiting by his own wrong to the extent that it  hindered an otherwise diligent plaintiff in discovering his cause of action.” (Bernson,  supra, at p. 931 [cleaned up].)     As  discussed above, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of  action for fraudulent concealment. Further, Plaintiff alleges that he did not  discover the wrongful conduct until shortly before filing the complaint. At  this stage of the proceedings, Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to  survive a demurrer based on statute of limitations.     Accordingly,  Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.   C.  Punitive Damages   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon  terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §  436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to  strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the  court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)     Defendant  correctly notes that punitive damages are not available under the first four  causes of action and the court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently  alleged fraud.   Accordingly,  Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer and GRANTS the  motion to strike.   Plaintiff to give notice of ruling.