 Case Number:  23STCV30940    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  26 07/16/24
Dept. 26
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
NATALIE CORTEZ v. VOLUNTEERS OF
AMERICA OF LOS ANGELES, et al. (23STCV30940)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Justin
Hanassab, Steven Azizi, and Caitlyn Handy (Miracle Mile Law Group LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Felicia A.
Starr, Esq. (Skane Mills LLP)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION AND
STAY PROCEEDINGS (filed 02/15/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The motion to compel binding arbitration and stay proceedings is granted
in part. 
 
I.           
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged wrongful actions taken against
Plaintiff Natalie Cortez (“Plaintiff”) during her employment with Defendant
Volunteers of America of Los Angeles (“VOALA”). On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendants VOALA, Ronald Smith (“Smith”), Cynde
Herman (“Herman”) (collectively, the “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Disability Discrimination in
Violation of FEHA; (2) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in Violation
of FEHA; (3) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA;
(4) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (5) Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment, and Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (6) Constructive Termination
in Violation of Public Policy; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and (8) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to
Compel Binding Arbitration and Stay Proceedings, arguing that: 
 
·      
Under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) and the California
Arbitration Act (“CAA”), private arbitration agreement must be enforced.
·      
Arbitration agreements are broadly construed and public policy
favors arbitration.
·      
The arbitration agreement satisfies the standards of Armendariz.
·      
Defendants have carried their burden of showing this Court should
order Plaintiff to submit her claims to arbitration. 
·      
The Court should stay this action pending arbitration of
Plaintiff’s employment claims. 
·      
Defendants should be reimbursed for attorneys’ fees incurred in
enforcing the parties’ agreement. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
 
·      
The arbitrability of Plaintiff’s claims should be decided by a
judge.
·      
Defendants failed to establish a valid arbitration agreement as
the 2018 Agreement has been superseded and is unenforceable due to the lack of
mutual assent. 
·      
Even if there was an agreement between the parties, it is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
·      
The purported arbitration agreement cannot be severed due to its
unconscionability. 
·      
Defendants’ request for sanctions is unwarranted and should be
denied outright. 
 
On reply, Defendants argue that:
 
·      
The Court should order Plaintiff to arbitration, should stay
proceedings, and issue sanctions against Plaintiff. 
·      
The applicability of the FEHA is not a threshold question of
arbitrability. 
·      
Plaintiff admits an agreement exists between the parties to
arbitrate claims arising out of Plaintiff’s employment. 
·      
The arbitration agreement is not unconscionable. 
 
II.           
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Parties may
be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was
a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement
covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration
agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) 
 
The Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a transaction
involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls
v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA
provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A
state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of
generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an
arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration
provisions. (Ibid.) 
 
For the FAA
to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.) When it
applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to the
accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to
present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects
interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.)
Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that
establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce.  (Ibid.)
“[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so
stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines
that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)
Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party “bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the [motion] bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.) 
 
“If a court
of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which
is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
 
B.      Judicial
Notice 
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452,
453.
 
C.      Arbitrability
of Plaintiff’s Claims 
 
Initially,
the Court will address Plaintiff’s contention that the arbitrability of her
claims should be decided by a judge and not an arbitrator. Plaintiff argues
that “[t]his dispute as to whether Plaintiff’s FEHA claims are even arbitrable
is a fundamental dispute of arbitrability.” (Opp’n at p. 4:18-19.) 
 
The Court
fails to see the applicability of Plaintiff’s contention to the instant motion.
FEHA claims will be compelled to arbitration if a valid agreement to arbitrate
exists, such claims are covered by the arbitration agreement, and the
arbitration agreement is not unconscionable. (O’Hare v. Municipal Resource
Consultants (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 267, 273.) Thus, by assessing the merits
of Defendants’ motion, the Court is required to determine whether Plaintiff’s
FEHA claims are subject to arbitration.  
 
D.     Existence of
a Valid Arbitration Agreement and Coverage of the Claims Alleged in the
Complaint
 
The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking performance of that contract. (Engineers
& Architects Assn. v. Community Development Dept. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th
644, 653.) There is no public policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the
parties have not agreed to arbitrate. (Ibid.) The FAA does not force
parties to arbitrate when they have not agreed to do so. (Cronus
Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 385.)
 
 
 
 
 
1.      Evidence in
Support of the Motion  
 
In support of
the motion, counsel for Defendants, Felica A. Starr (“Starr”), presents a
declaration. Ms. Starr declares the following: Plaintiff signed a Dispute
Resolution Agreement on November 5, 2018 (the “2018 Arbitration Agreement”)
which is governed by the FAA. (Starr Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. 1 at p. 0113.) The 2018
Arbitration Agreement provides for arbitration of “any and all disputes arising
out of or related to your employment with VOALA or the termination thereof,
regardless of whether that dispute is between (1) just you or VOALA, (2) you
and another other associate, employee, agent, or representative of VOALA . . .
.” (Starr Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. 1 at p. 0113.) The 2018 Arbitration Agreement
provides that the “covered disputes include, but are not limited to, disputes
regarding . . . termination, retaliation . . . harassment, discrimination and
claims under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act,
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, the
Fair Labor Standards Act, ERISA and similar state statutes . . . as well as any
related common law claims covering such subjects.” (Id.) The 2018
Arbitration Agreement provides that “[a]ll such disputes will be resolved by an
arbitrator through final and binding arbitration, which replaces a judicial
forum for resolution of any covered disputes.” (Id.) 
 
The 2018
Arbitration Agreement further provides that the parties “will . . . select, by
mutual agreement, a single neutral arbitrator. To be eligible, the arbitrator
must have a JD or LLB law degree. If the pares cannot mutually agree on an
arbitrator, any party may seek court appointment of an arbitrator pursuant to
the FAA.” (Id.) Moreover, the 2018 Arbitration Agreement provides that
“[a]t the arbitration, all parties will have the right to conduct discovery and
bring motions as provided for by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure . . . .”
(Id.) 
 
Ms. Starr
declares that, on January 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to arbitrate but
Plaintiff’s counsel wanted Defendant VOALA to stipulate that it is a covered
employee under the FEHA, discovery will be governed under the CCP, the parties
will use AAA or Judicate West, and the parties will agree on a neutral
arbitrator. (Starr Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. 4.) Also, on such date, Ms. Starr notified
Plaintiff’s counsel that Defendants would agree to the terms set forth in
Plaintiff’s counsel’s e-mail except that they do not agree that Defendant VOALA
is a covered employer under the FEHA. (Starr Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. 5.) The instant
motion to arbitration followed. (Starr Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
 
On reply, Ms.
Starr states that when drafting the motion to compel, she inadvertently omitted
Plaintiff’s 2021 Dispute Resolution Agreement (the “2021 Arbitration
Agreement”) with Defendant VOALA, of which Plaintiff attached a true and
correct copy in her declaration submitted with the opposition. (Starr Reply
Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendants are not attempting to enforce the 2018 Arbitration
Agreement but are seeking to enforce the 2021 Arbitration Agreement. (Id.)
The 2018 Arbitration Agreement and 2021 Arbitration Agreement are the same
document with the same terms and which Plaintiff signed. (Id.) 
 
2.      Evidence in
Opposition to the Motion
 
In opposition
to the motion, Plaintiff declares the following: she was hired in or around
November 2018 with Defendant VOALA as an Alcohol and Other Drug Counsel (AOD).
(Cortez Decl., ¶ 2.) On her first day of work in 2018, Plaintiff was required
to review and complete an Orientation Packet that consisted of approximately 42
documents. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s program manager, Monica
Mooring (“Mooring”), handed Plaintiff the packet and walked away without
pointing out the arbitration agreement or explaining what it was. (Cortez
Decl., ¶ 4.) Document number twenty-four was the Acknowledgement of the 2018
Arbitration Agreement. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. B.) Plaintiff declares that “at
no point did VOALA or Ms. Mooring provide any explanation of what arbitration
was, its significance, or that [she] would be given up [her] right to a jury
trial.” (Cortez Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff states that she felt pressure to
complete the documents quickly so as to begin work as soon as possible. (Cortez
Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff finished the packet in less than 15 minutes and went
straight to work. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 6.) On or around November 6, 2019, Plaintiff
resigned from her position as a full-time AOD Counselor at Defendant VOALA.
(Cortez Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Plaintiff
declares that on or around January 4, 2021, she was re-hired for the same
position by Defendant VOALA. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 8.) That same day, she was
required to complete another Orientation Packet, which consisted of forty-eight
documents. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. C.) Document number twenty-nine was the 2021
Arbitration Agreement. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 10; Ex. D.) As to the 2021 Arbitration
Agreement, Plaintiff attests that she was rushed to complete the packet on her
first day of work so that she could begin working, and at no point did anyone
explain what an arbitration agreement was or that she was giving up her rights
to a jury trial. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 11.) At the time of signing both agreements,
no one explained to Plaintiff the meaning of the term “arbitration” and she did
not know what it meant. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff felt that she had to
sign every document contained in both orientation packets in order to work, and
that she believes she would have been terminated had she refused to sign either
the 2018 Agreement or the 2021 Agreement. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 12.) 
 
3.      Mutal Assent 

 
The
opposition takes issue with the fact that the 2018 Arbitration Agreement has
been superseded and is unenforceable due to the lack of mutual assent; however,
Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the 2021 Arbitration Agreement. 
 
To establish a valid contract there must be: (1) parties capable of
contracting; (2) their consent; (3) a lawful object; and (4) sufficient cause
or consideration. (Civ. Code § 1550.) “California law distinguishes between
fraud in the execution or inception of a contract and fraud in the inducement
of a contract.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 415.)  Fraud in the
execution “goes to the inception or execution of the agreement, so that the
promisor is deceived as to the nature of his act, and actually does not know
what he is signing, or does not intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual
assent is lacking, and [the contract] is void.” (Ibid., citation
omitted.) 
 
“A misrepresentation as to the character or essential terms of a
proposed contract can render the promisor’s assent ineffective.”  (Mt. Holyoke Homes, L.P. v. Jeffer Mangels
Butler & Mitchell, LLP (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1299, 1308.)  The question of fraud in the execution is for
the trial court to decide.  (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th 394, 416.)
“[M]isrepresentation does not render the contract void unless the misled
party, before making the agreement, lacked a reasonable opportunity to learn
its terms.” (Id. at p. 421.) 
 
“If a party, with such reasonable opportunity, fails to learn the
nature of the document he or she signs, such negligence precludes a finding the
contract is void for fraud in the execution.” (Id. at p. 423, citation
omitted.) “[O]ne party’s unreasonable reliance on the other’s
misrepresentations, resulting in a failure to read a written agreement before
signing it, is an insufficient basis, under the doctrine of fraud in the
execution, for permitting that party to avoid an arbitration agreement contained
in the contract.” (Ibid.) “[I]t is generally unreasonable, in reliance .
. . on assurances, to neglect to read a written agreement before signing it.” (Id.
at p. 424.) “California law . . . requires that the plaintiff, in failing to
acquaint himself or herself with the contents of a written agreement before
signing it, not have acted in an objectively unreasonable manner.” (Id. at p. 423.) “One party’s
misrepresentations as to the nature or character of the writing do not negate
the other party’s apparent manifestation of assent, if the second party had a
reasonable opportunity to know the character or essential terms of the proposed
contract.” (Ibid, citation omitted.) 
 
The Court
rejects Plaintiff’s argument as to the lack of mutual assent. Defendants’
counsel has attested to mistakenly not including the 2021 Arbitration Agreement
with the moving papers and indicates that is the agreement upon which the
motion is based. 
 
Given that
Plaintiff presented the 2021 Arbitration Agreement to the Court via her
declaration, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement between the parties. Defendants have therefore met their
burden in showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate between the parties.
Thus, the Court’s analysis will focus on the operative 2021 Arbitration
Agreement. 
 
Plaintiff alludes to not understanding the meaning of the term
“arbitration,” not understanding the implications of the 2021 Arbitration
Agreement, and not understanding that she was giving up her rights to a jury
trial as it concerns the 2021 Arbitration Agreement. (Cortez Decl., ¶ 11.) However,
such lack of understanding is not indicative of no mutual assent. The Court
notes that Plaintiff did not set forth any efforts to ascertain the nature or
significance of the 2021 Arbitration Agreement and does not indicate any
misrepresentation on behalf of Defendants as to the 2021 Arbitration Agreement.
Plaintiff’s declaration is void of any indication that she lacked the
opportunity to acquaint himself with the terms of the 2021 Arbitration
Agreement. Also, Defendants had no duty to explain the terms of the 2021 Arbitration
Agreement because “the [Arbitration Agreement] expressly and plainly provides
for arbitration of disputes arising out of the contractual relationship.” (Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674.) Plaintiff could have
“ascertained the truth through the exercise of reasonable diligence.” (Ibid.)

 
As such, the
Court finds that the 2021 Arbitration Agreement is a valid agreement between
the parties. 
 
4.      Coverage of
the Claims Alleged 
 
Additionally,
the Court finds that the causes of action asserted in the Complaint are subject
to the 2021 Arbitration Agreement. Here, the Complaint arises from Plaintiff’s
employment relationship with Defendant VOALA. As such, the claims alleged in
the instant action are covered by the 2021 Arbitration Agreement.
 
Moreover,
given that the 2021 Arbitration Agreement clearly states that the FAA governs
such agreement, the Court finds that the FAA applies to the 2021 Arbitration
Agreement. (Cortez Decl., Ex. D at p. 0166.) 
 
The Court
will now address Plaintiff’s argument that the arbitration agreement is
unconscionable.  
 
E.      Unconscionability

 
Plaintiff
contends that the arbitration agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
The inquiry into unconscionability consists of two prongs: A contract
will be revoked if it is both procedurally unconscionable and substantively
unconscionable. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.,
supra, 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) Procedural and substantive unconscionability
need not be present to the same degree, with the test operating on a “sliding
scale”: “[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) 
 
“‘Procedural unconscionability’ concerns the manner in which the
contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.  It focuses on the factors of oppression and
surprise. The oppression component arises from an inequality of bargaining
power of the parties to the contract and an absence of real negotiation or a
meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The component of surprise
arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281, citations omitted.)              
 
Substantive unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and
whether those terms are “so one sided as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney
v. United Healthcare Services, Inc., supra, 70 Cal. App.4th 1329,
1330.)  The California Supreme Court in Armendariz set forth five
minimum requirements in requiring that arbitration agreements in the
employer-employee context must provide for: (1) neutral arbitrators; (2) more
than minimal discovery; (3) a written award; (4) all types of relief that would
otherwise be available in court; and (5) no additional costs for the employee
beyond what the employee would incur if he or she were bringing the claim in
court.  (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 712-713.)
 
1.      Procedural
Unconscionability
 
The Court finds that the 2021 Arbitration Agreement contains some
degree of procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff has stated that she believed
she had to sign the 2021 Arbitration Agreement to work for Defendant VOALA or
she would be terminated. (Cortez Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  “[A]dhesion contracts in the employment
context typically contain some measure of procedural unconscionability.” (Roman v.
Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1470.) 
 
Additionally, the Court notes that the 2021 Arbitration Agreement does
not state which arbitral body will conduct the arbitration and does not state
which arbitration rules will apply to the arbitration.[1] 
 
2.      Substantive
Unconscionability
 
“[R]equiring discrimination cases be kept secret unreasonably favors
the employer to the detriment of employees seeking to vindicate unwaivable
statutory rights and may discourage potential plaintiffs from filing
discrimination cases.” (Ramos v. Superior Court (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
1042, 1066-67.) Where an arbitration provision requires that all aspects of an
arbitration be maintained in strict confidence, such provision is substantively
unconscionable. (Id. at p. 1067.) 
 
As to substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff argues that it requires
the arbitrator’s decision to be kept confidential. The 2021 Arbitration
Agreement provides that “[t]he arbitrator’s decision shall be final and
binding, and, unless otherwise required by federal, state, or local law, will
remain confidential and may not be disclosed to third parties without the prior
written approval of all parties, provided that each party may disclose the
decision as reasonably required by legal process and/or for business, legal, or
tax reasons.” (Cortez Decl., Ex. D at p. 0167.) 
 
The Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that the 2021 Arbitration
Agreement requires the arbitrator’s decision to remain confidential. Here, the
confidentiality of the arbitrator’s decision is conditional as confidentiality
is not required if federal, state, or local law deems otherwise. 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable
because it “grants excessive authority to an arbitrator to deny or award attorney
fees while under the FEHA these fees are mandatory in a court of law.” (Opp’n
at p. 9:27-28.) An arbitration agreement will be deemed substantively
unconscionable “when it purports to deprive an employee of his or her statutory
right to recover attorney fees if the employee prevails . . . on a
discrimination claim under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.” (Carbajal, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 251.) 
 
As to attorneys’ fees, the 2021 Arbitration Agreement provides that
“[e]ach party who chooses to be represented by an attorney at the arbitration
will be responsible for their own attorneys’ fees, except where such fees may
be awarded as part of a remedy or sanction under applicable state or federal
law, in which case the arbitrator shall have power under such law to award of
such fees.” (Cortez Decl., Ex. D at p. 0166.) The agreement further states that
“[t]he arbitrator shall not have the power to commit errors of law or legal
reasoning and the arbitrator’s award may be vacated or corrected by a court of
competent jurisdiction for any such error.” (Cortez Decl., Ex. D at p. 0167.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s reliance on Carbajal, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 251 is inapposite.
In Carbajal, an attorneys’ fee provision in an
arbitration agreement required each party to be responsible for its own
attorneys’ fees. (Carbajal, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 236.) The trial court deemed the arbitration
agreement substantively unconscionable, denied appellant’s motion to compel
arbitration, and an appeal followed. (Id. at p. 233.) On appeal, appellant
argued that the attorneys’ fees provision was not substantively unconscionable
because it provided that the arbitrator could award “all types of relief that
would otherwise be available to the parties in a court proceeding under State
or Federal law.” (Id. at p. 251.) 
 
 In Carbajal, the appellate court noted that the attorneys’
fees provision required “the parties to be responsible for their own attorney
fees without any exceptions” and that nothing in the challenged agreement
suggested that “the parties intended to limit or qualify [such] provision by
also granting the arbitrators broad authority to award all types of relief
authorized by law.” (Ibid.) The appellate court noted that appellant deliberately chose to limit
the choice of its employee to recover statutory attorneys’ fees and advanced
“an interpretation contrary to the plain language of the arbitration agreement
it drafted.” (Id. at p. 252.) 
 
Here, the 2021 Arbitration Agreement does provide that the arbitrator
“may award those remedies provided by applicable federal, state, or local law
based on the underlying claims”. (Cortez Decl., Ex. D at p. 0167.) Thus, the Court finds that the attorneys’ fees provision is not
substantively unconscionable because there is qualifying language in the 2021
Arbitration Agreement that allows for the recovery of attorneys’ fees where
required by law. As such, the arbitrator has authority to award attorneys’ fees
to Plaintiff. 
 
Moreover,
unlike in Carbajal, there is no conflict concerning the provision for
attorneys’ fees. Also, the 2021 Arbitration Agreement requires that the arbitrator
not commit errors of law, which leads to the conclusion that attorneys’ fees
will be awarded if Plaintiff prevails as fees must be awarded if she prevails
on her FEHA claims. (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013)
215 Cal.App.4th 695, 709.) Moreover, an attorneys’ fees provision in an
arbitration agreement will not be deemed per se substantively unconscionable if
it provides “for the recovery of attorney fees in an appropriate circumstance
or in accordance with applicable law.” (Ibid.) 
 
Therefore,
the Court does not find that the attorneys’ fee provision in the 2021
Arbitration Agreement to be substantively unconscionable. 
 
Next,
Plaintiff argues that the agreement does not provide for a qualified arbitrator
by allowing any person with an LLB, or Bachelor of Law, to serve as the
arbitrator. (Opp’n at p. 10:13-17.) The Court rejects Plaintiff’s contention on
this point as Plaintiff presents no evidence or legal authority standing for
the proposition that a person with an LLB degree cannot preside over an
arbitration. The 2021 Arbitration Agreement requires that the arbitrator “must
have a JD or LLB law degree.” (Cortez Decl., Ex. D at p. 0166.) The Court
acknowledges that employment disputes are complex. (Baxter v. Genworth North
America Corp. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 727.) However, without any
evidence or authority on such a point, Plaintiff’s contention is not
persuasive. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the 2021 Arbitration Agreement is not substantively
unconscionable. Given that the Court finds that there is no substantive
unconscionability, the Court finds that arbitration of this action can be
compelled pursuant to the 2021 Arbitration Agreement. 
 
The Court
will now address Defendants’ request for sanctions against Plaintiff.    
 
F.       Sanctions 
 
Defendants request sanctions against Plaintiff on the grounds that
Plaintiff unreasonably reneged on her agreement to arbitrate, and that
Plaintiff is wholly unjustified in refusing to arbitrate her claims. 
 
“Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.7, a court may impose sanctions for filing a
pleading if the court concludes the pleading was filed for an improper purpose or
was indisputably without merit, either legally or factually.” (Peake v.
Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440.)
 
Initially,
the Court notes that in the notice of motion, Defendants request sanctions of
$3,020.00 against Plaintiff; however, in the memorandum of points and
authorities and in the declaration of Ms. Starr, Defendants request sanctions
of $3,185.00. 
 
Irrespective
of such fact, the Court finds that Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions
is inappropriate. Defendants do not contend that the complaint or opposition to
the instant motion was presented for an improper purpose. Rather, Defendants
take issue with Plaintiff refusing to arbitrate her claims. The fact that the
parties could not agree to arbitrate does not warrant the imposition of
sanctions.
 
The Court
therefore DENIES Defendants’ request for sanctions against Plaintiff. 
 
III.           
DISPOSITION

 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Binding Arbitration and Stay Proceedings. 
 
The Court ORDERS that this action be compelled to arbitration
pursuant to the 2021 Arbitration Agreement and the Court STAYS this action
pending the completion of arbitration.
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ request for sanctions against
Plaintiff. 


