 Case Number:  24TRCV02941    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDRE
  ABED, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02941




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TESLA
  MOTORS, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December
11, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None 
Motion
to Compel Binding Arbitration
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED and the action is STAYED. 
BACKGROUND
On September 4, 2024, Andre Abed filed
a complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. for violations under Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . . with a
third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.
requests that the Court compel arbitration and to stay the case.
The complaint alleges that on January
13, 2023, plaintiff purchased a 2023 Tesla Model 3.  Complaint, ¶5.  After plaintiff took possession of the
vehicle and during the warranty period, the vehicle contained defects that
substantially impair the use, safety, and/or value of the vehicle.  Id., ¶10. 
Plaintiff provided defendant with sufficient opportunity to service or
repair the vehicle.  Id., ¶13.  Defendant was unable and/or failed to service
or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.  Id., ¶14.
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant Tesla presents evidence
that on January 23, 2023, plaintiff leased a 2023 Tesla Model 3 from
Tesla.  Defendant asserts that the lease
contains an arbitration provision, which states in part:  “Please carefully read this provision, which
applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates. . . .
[Y]ou agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the
relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but
instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the [AAA]
under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. . . .” 
The provision contains an opt out clause and states, “[i]f you do not
opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration
agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance
contract.”  Raymond Kim decl., Exh. 1.
Plaintiff did not file an
opposition. 
The Court finds that an arbitration
agreement exists between plaintiff and defendant Tesla (both the manufacturer
and seller of the vehicle) and that plaintiff did not opt-out.  
            Scope
of agreement 
Defendant argues that plaintiff’s
claims against it fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration provision
as they arise directly out of the relationship between plaintiff as lessee/consumer
and Tesla as the manufacturer/lessor/warrantor/repair facility. 
The Court finds that the scope of
the arbitration provision covers plaintiff’s claims against Tesla as they
relate to the relationship between plaintiff and Tesla, including manufacture, lease,
warranty, and repairs to the vehicle.
Enforceability
                        Unconscionable?
“Courts analyze the
unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract
is one of adhesion.  Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form.  The substantive
element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.  However, Armendariz
held, ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Armendariz,
at 114).”  McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 76, 87
(citations omitted).
Defendant argues that the
arbitration provision is enforceable, citing to California Supreme Court case Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding, Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, which,
defendant asserts, “upheld the entirety of a substantially similar arbitration
provision against a wide array of unconscionability challenges.”
Plaintiff did not file an
opposition and has made no argument that the arbitration provision is unconscionable.
The Court finds that even if the
arbitration provision is an adhesion contract, when there is no other
indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the
degree of procedural unconscionability is low. 
Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.
App. 4th 695, 704.  Further,
plaintiff had the ability to opt out of the arbitration provision.   The
Court further finds little to no substantive unconscionability as the
arbitration provision does not lack mutuality.
The motion is thus GRANTED. 
 
ORDER
The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.
The action is STAYED. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.