  Case Number:  24TRCV02175    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DIANE
  MA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02175




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LUXE
  DEVELOPMENT, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December
11, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      (1) Defendant Luxe Development, Inc., (2) defendant Oren
Levy
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default
(2)  
Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.  The defaults entered on August 20, 2024 against
defendants Luxe Development, Inc. and Oren Levy are set aside and vacated.  Defendants
are ordered to file a responsive pleading by Dec. 20, 2024.
BACKGROUND
On June 28, 2024, plaintiff Diane
Ma filed a complaint against Luxe Development, Inc., Oren Levy, Luxe Home
Solutions, Inc., Tariq Hassan Hill, and Business Alliance Insurance Company for
(1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, (3) recovery on surety bond, (4) breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing (insurance bad faith), (5) intentional
misrepresentation, (6), (7) statutory violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §§7025-7034
and 7125.2, (8) conversion, and (9) unfair business practices.  
On July 10, 2024, defendant Tariq
Hassan Hill filed a notice of stay of proceedings based on his Ch. 7 bankruptcy
filing.
On August 15, 2024, a default was
entered against Luxe Home Solutions, Inc.
On August 20, 2024, defaults were
entered against Luxe Development, Inc. and Oren Levy.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .”
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Luxe Development, Inc. and Oren Levy request that the Court set aside the
defaults entered on August 20, 2024, pursuant to CCP §473, under discretionary
and/or mandatory relief. 
            Defendants
argue that the defaults entered against them were the result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or excusable neglect.  Defendants
assert that plaintiff’s counsel surreptitiously took defendants’ defaults while
the parties were engaged in settlement discussions.  Defense counsel Jeremy Smith explains the
chronology of counsel’s communications. 
Defendants were served on July 17, 2024. 
On July 25, plaintiff’s counsel had a telephone call with defense
counsel where defense counsel gave plaintiff’s counsel permission to coordinate
a site visit with defendant directly.  In
an email that same date, plaintiff’s counsel requested a copy of the purchase
and sale agreement from defendant to a third party, a list of the
subcontractors that were used by defendant, and a copy of the
subcontracts.  Defense counsel responded
that defendant would provide a detailed scope of work and the documents
requested by plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s
counsel requested more information. 
Counsel then engaged in settlement discussions.  On July 26, plaintiff’s counsel emailed
copies of change orders and punch list of issues.  On August 7, defendant Levy emailed
plaintiff’s counsel directly trying to coordinate the inspection.  On August 16, defendant emailed plaintiff’s
counsel “a thorough and detailed cost breakdown of what was remaining” and that
plaintiff “does not pay any additional cost for work remaining” and an
available start date of August 27. 
Plaintiff’s counsel replied that defendant’s email was not sufficiently
detailed, and that defendant needed to set forth the detailed nature of the
proposed work.  On August 20, defaults
were entered against defendants.  On
August 22, “having no clue that [plaintiff’s attorney] filed a request for
entry of default,” defense counsel emailed plaintiff’s counsel attaching a
revised scope of work, requesting that he “confirm it is acceptable so we can
finalize the agreement to resolve this matter and help your client finish her
home renovation.”  Having not heard from
plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel sent another email to plaintiff’s
counsel.  On August 26, plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email to defense counsel stating that plaintiff “no longer
wishes for [defendant]” to complete the scope of work and making a settlement
offer.  On September 5, plaintiff’s
counsel emailed defense counsel and “first disclosed that ‘during our
settlement discussions, a default was taken and entered against both of [the
defendants].’”
            There
is no opposition.  
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court notes
that “the negotiation of a possible settlement does not excuse the failure to
proceed with due diligence in the filing of pleadings, absent some
understanding that pleadings need not be filed while negotiations are in
process.”  Turley v. Turley (1967)
254 Cal. App. 2d 169, 173.  But, also, “[t]he
policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it
looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the case,
attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect
of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v.
Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal
quotations omitted).  Further, “’any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief from default.’”  Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975, 980 (citation omitted).  The Court finds that the defaults were
entered against defendants as a result of their and their attorney’s mistake, surprise, and/or excusable
neglect.
            The
motions are thus GRANTED.
            
ORDER
            The
motions are GRANTED.  The Court sets
aside and vacates the defaults entered on August 20, 2024 against Luxe
Development, Inc. and Oren Levy.
Defendants
are ordered to file a responsive pleading by Dec. 20, 2024.
            Moving
defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling.