

 
BACKGROUND
 
            This matter
arises out of a motor vehicle accident that occurred on February 4, 2021,
between Plaintiff, Aracely Llerenas and Defendants Hari Rai Sing Ji Betancur
Arango and Cesar Roberto Jarrin Yausen. Defendant Arango was driving a vehicle
eastbound on Sherman Way through an intersection when his vehicle was struck by
the Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint in
limited jurisdiction on January 21, 2022. Defendants filed their Answer to the
Complaint on March 14, 2022. (Navarro, Decl. ¶ 4)
 
            On June 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. On June 25, 2024, Defendants filed
their opposition. On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply. 
 
            A jury
trial is scheduled for August 12, 2024. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order transferring the case from limited jurisdiction to unlimited
jurisdiction. Plaintiff argues that the amount in controversy will now exceed
the maximum jurisdiction of this Court as she continues to have chronic pain
and requires additional medical treatment. (Mot. at p. 4, 6.) 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            First, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied as untimely because the motion
was filed on June 5, 2024, but the Court ordered discovery and motion-cut off
dates remained closed on February 26, 2024. (Opp’n at p. 5; 02/26/24 Minute
Order.)  Moreover, Plaintiff has access
to the billing records for more than six months and therefore, the motion
should be denied as untimely. (Opp’n at p.5; Navarro, Decl. ¶ 13.) 
            Second,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to meet the burden stated in Code Civ.
Proc., § 403.040(a) because the motion was untimely and without good cause.
Good cause does not exist because throughout discovery, in written discovery
and in deposition, Plaintiff herself asserted that she continued to deal with
ongoing knee pain she and her treaters attributed it to the accident. Plaintiff
herself has announced ready for trial on numerous occasions, including most
recently on February 26, 2024, and April 3, 2024. This was after Plaintiff’s
most recent medical treatment between November 2023 to February 2024. Despite
Plaintiff being aware of her ongoing complaints of knee pain, and having
documents she could have produced prior to the closure of discovery, Plaintiff
has significantly delayed in filing their untimely motion, when it could have
been brought months and years ago. (Opp’n at p.6.)
 
 
REPLY
 
            In reply, Plaintiff’s counsel states “Plaintiff’s
prior counsel, Arthur Djougourian, who was most familiar with the case,
recently gave notice and left the firm in or about mid-May.” (Mandell Decl. ¶
2.) Plaintiff’s counsel further states “[i]n mid to late May, I had a detailed
discussion with Plaintiff and it became apparent to me that she continues to
suffer from the effects of the collision which is the subject matter of the
within lawsuit. In light of the past medical expenses, anticipated future
medical expense and associated non-economic losses, in earnest and good faith,
I believe that Plaintiff’s damages now exceed the limited jurisdictional limits
of this court.” (Id. at ¶ 4.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion to
Reclassify
A.        Legal Standard
“The plaintiff . . . may file a
motion for reclassification within the time allowed for that party to amend the
initial pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a).) “The court, on its
own motion, may reclassify a case at any time.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040,
subd. (a).) “A motion for reclassification does not extend the moving party’s
time to amend . . . or otherwise respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd.
(a).) Where a motion for reclassification is filed after the time for a party
to amend its initial pleading, “the court shall grant the motion and enter an
order for reclassification only if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: (1) The case is incorrectly classified. (2) The moving party shows
good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
403.040, subd. (b)(1)-(2).) 
“[A] civil case
in which the damages claimed are less than $25,000 or less is a limited civil
case.” AP-Colton LLC v. Ohaeri (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 500, 505. “In a limited
civil action, the judgment cannot exceed $25,000.” Ibid. “For reclassification
of a case from a limited civil case to an unlimited civil case, a fee shall be
charged as provided in Section 70619 of the Government Code. This
reclassification fee shall be in addition to any other fee due for that
appearance or filing in a limited civil case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.060,
subd. (a).) “The fee for reclassification of a case from a limited civil case
to an unlimited civil case under Section 403.060 of the Code of Civil Procedure
is one hundred forty dollars ($140).” (Gov. Code § 70619.) 
“[A] matter may be reclassified
as a limited civil action when (i) the absence of jurisdiction is apparent
before trial from the complaint, petition, or related documents, or (ii) during
the course of pretrial litigation, it becomes clear that the matter will
necessarily result in a verdict below the superior court’s jurisdictional
amount.” Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005)129 Cal.App.4th 266, 276, internal
quotations omitted. “[T]he test [is] . . . whether lack of jurisdiction is
clear . . . [or] virtually unattainable.” Id. at p. 277, citation omitted,
internal quotations omitted. “This standard involves an evaluation of the
amount fairly in controversy, not an adjudication of the merits of the claim,
and . . . requires a high level of certainty that [the] damage award will not
exceed $25,000.” Ibid. “The [trial] court may believe it highly unlikely that
plaintiff will recover the amount demanded, but this is not enough to defeat
jurisdiction, unless it appears to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot recover
the amount [of the] demand[].” Ibid. “[T]he superior court must deny the motion
to reclassify the case as limited (and thus keep the matter in the unlimited
civil court) unless it appears to a legal certainty that the plaintiff’s
damages will necessarily be less than $25,000.” Ibid.  
Effective January 1, 2024, a
limited civil action is an action where the amount in controversy does not
exceed $35,000. (Code Civ. Proc., § 85, subd. (a).) “A civil action or
proceeding other than a limited civil case may be referred to as an unlimited civil
case.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 88.) 
  
B.        Discussion      
The Court may,
on its own motion, reclassify an action at any time pursuant to CCP
§403.040(a).  The Court shall grant the
motion and enter an order for reclassification, regardless of any fault or
lack of fault, if the case has been classified in an incorrect
jurisdictional classification. (Code Civ. Proc. §403.040(a)) 
 
In Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 262, the California Supreme Court held that a matter may
be reclassified from unlimited to limited only if it appears to a legal
certainty that the plaintiff's damages will necessarily be less than $25,000. (Walker
v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257.) In Ytuarte, the Court of
Appeals examined the principles it set forth in Walker and held that
“the court should reject the plaintiff's effort to reclassify the action as
unlimited only when the lack of jurisdiction as an “unlimited” case is
certain and clear.” (Id. at 279.) (Emphasis added.)  Nevertheless,
the plaintiff must present evidence to demonstrate a possibility that the
damages will exceed $25,000.00 and the trial court must review the record to
determine “whether a judgment in excess of $25,000.00 is obtainable.”
(Id.) (Emphasis added.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff states that her current damages are
$18,000 and due to her chronic pain, will continue to accumulate damages.
(Llerenas Decl. ¶¶ 2.) In support, Plaintiff attached past medical bills and
her medical team’s report regarding future treatment. (Mandell Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)
For instance, Dr. Friedland’s report dated February 23, 2024, states “she
should continue using protective sleeve or brace when she does any vigorous
activities to shield any patellofemoral pain and occasionally she can take some
anti-inflammatories . . . future medical she should [have] access to and we
will injections if necessary of hyaluronic acid such as truly Neurontin or
steroid injection for pain management or she should be eligible to have P
orthopedic therapy once or twice a year necessary  brace persistent patellofemoral pain or knee
joint pain not responding to hyaluronic acid protocol.” (Id. at ¶ 4.) Furthermore,
plaintiff’s Complaint pleads the following: wage loss, loss of use of property,
hospital and medical expenses, general damage, property damage, loss of earning
capacity, and other damages.  (Complaint
¶11).  Therefore, the case is incorrectly
classified. 
 
            The Court acknowledges
that there was a motion cut off ordered on February 26, 2024. Plaintiff was
aware of Dr. Friedland’s report dated February 23, 2024, before then and was
aware of the ongoing chronic pain. Moreover, Plaintiff’s former counsel from
the same firm was prepared for trial in the limited jurisdiction since April 3,
2024. (Mandell Decl. ¶ 3.) Since the prior counsel gave notice and left the
firm in or about mid-May, Plaintiff’s new counsel states that she had detailed
discussions in mid to late May with Plaintiff where she realized anticipated
future expenses and associated non-economic losses would exceed the
jurisdictional limits. (Id. at ¶ 4.) 
 
            While
there was a delay in bringing this Motion, since the case has been classified
in an incorrect jurisdictional classification, the Court will grant the motion
and enter an order for reclassification pursuant to CCP §403.040.  The Court reminds the parties that “[t]he
[trial] court may believe it highly unlikely that plaintiff will recover the
amount demanded, but it is not enough to defeat jurisdiction, unless it appears
to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount [of
the] deman[d].” Maldonado v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 397,
401, emphasis in original. Therefore, it does not appear, to legal certainty,
that Plaintiff cannot recover more than $35,000.00.  
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            In all, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Reclassify is GRANTED.  The Court
reclassifies this action from a limited civil jurisdiction action to an
unlimited civil jurisdiction action. Plaintiff is ordered to pay the
reclassification fee of $140.00 pursuant to CCP § 403.060(a) before this action
will be reclassified to an unlimited civil jurisdiction matter.  
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 