

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Covina Hills MHC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Eugenia Souza, Jermaine D. Souza, Julio Javier Romo, Francis
Vinula, and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for: (1) Declaration
of Mobile Home Abandoned; (2) Open Book Account; (3) Breach of Implied in Fact
Contract; (4) Common Counts; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Breach of Written
Contract; and (7) Intentional Misrepresentation. 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed Proof of Service of Summons indicating that Defendant
Jermaine D. Souza was served by substituted service on February 3, 2024 at 3839
Amanda Street #105, West Covina, CA 91792, which is the home of Defendant Jermaine
D. Souza. Attached to the proof of service is a declaration of diligence. The
proof of service was executed by a registered California process server named
Elias Elhayek. 
 
On March
8, 2024, Defendant Jermaine D. Souza (“Defendant”) filed and served the instant
Motion to Quash Summons and Complaint or, Alternatively, Motion to Dismiss
Entire Action for Lack of and Defective Service of Process. 
 
On May
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the motion to quash. 
 
An
untimely reply brief was filed by Defendant on July 8, 2024.  
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
argues that the summons should be quashed because the summons, complaint, and
related attachments were mailed to him instead of being personally served at his
correct address. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            On
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion should be denied because Defendant
was properly served.  
 
REPLY
 
            An untimely
reply brief was filed by Defendant on July 8, 2024.    
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    Motion to Quash Service of Summons and
Complaint
 
B.                
Legal Standard 
“A defendant who takes the
position that the service of summons as made upon him did not bring him within
the jurisdiction of the court, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash
the service.” Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868. “The
effect of such notice is to place upon the plaintiff the burden of proving the
facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an
effective service.” Ibid. “A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) Personal service is accomplished
when a copy of the summons and complaint is delivered to the person to be
served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
           “[T]he filing of a proof of service
creates a rebuttable presumption that . . . service was proper.” Dill v.
Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441. “[A]
registered process server’s declaration establishes a presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.
“[A] registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a
presumption that the facts stated in the declaration are true.” Rodriguez v.
Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750. A court is “not required to
accept . . . self-serving evidence contradicting the process server’s
declaration.” Id. At p. 751.  
“In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the
summons and complaint to the person to be served . . . a summons may be served
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his
or her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing
address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of
the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to
be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
           “If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served . . . a summons may be served by leaving a copy of  the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual business, or usual mailing address
other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be
served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) 
C.    Discussion
            Defendant declares the following: the
attempt to serve was an improper, illegal, and invalid substituted service of
process, and Plaintiff failed to provide the proper notice. (Decl. of Jermaine
D. Souza Decl. [“Souza Decl.”], ¶¶ 4-5.) No attempts for valid personal service
were made by a registered process server on all defendants named in the
Complaint. (Souza Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant states that the due diligence
declaration indicated the attempt at personal service was not done on all or
any of the defendants at the proper place. (Souza Decl., ¶ 7.) No certified
mailing with return receipt for all of the defendants was effectuated after the
alleged ineffective service attempts to prove a disputed mailing action ever
taking place. (Souza Decl., ¶ 8.) Since notice was not properly served,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot legally commence any legal action and
that Plaintiff did not effectuate valid substitute service of process. (Souza
Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendant argues that no one is authorized to accept service of
process on his behalf at any former or existing location that he used to or
even currently operates his business. (Souza Decl., ¶ 9.) According to
Defendant, since there was a failure to serve in this action, the process
should be voided and invalidated. (Souza Decl., ¶ 10.) 
            In
opposition to the motion, Elias Eihayek (“Eihayek”) declares that he is a
licensed process server, and he served Defendant at his home located at 3839
Amanda Street #105, West Covina, California on February 3, 2024. (Eihayek
Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) 
            According to the proof of service, Mr.
Eihayek made two attempts to serve Defendant by personal service. (Eihayek
Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) Plaintiff has therefore shown reasonable diligence as “two
or three attempts at personal service at a proper place should fully satisfy
the requirement of reasonable diligence and allow substituted service to be
made.” Espindola v. Nunez (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1389, 1392. 
            In
his Reply, Defendant declares that his correct address is 645 Eremland Street
Unit #E, West Covina, CA 91792, not the Amanda Street address.  (Souza Decl.¶4). Defendant declares that he
does not know A. Navato. (Souza Decl. ¶7D). 
Defendant’s declaration does not state that he never received the
mailed Summons and Complaint.  (Souza
Decl. in its entirety.)  
            Defendant has not provided any
evidence that the address on the proof of service is not his home address.
Moreover, the Court is not required to accept Defendant’s self-serving
declaration. Defendant has not produced any evidence rebutting the presumption
that service was proper. As such, the Court finds it appropriate to deny the
motion. 
II.        Conclusion 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Jermaine D. Souza’s
Motion to Quash Summons and Complaint or, Alternatively, Motion to Dismiss
Entire Action for Lack of and Defective Service of Process is DENIED.  
 
            Defendant Jermaine D. Souza is ordered to file his Answer or responsive
pleading to Plaintiff’s Complaint within 30 days of the date of this order.  
 
            Moving party is ordered
to give notice. 