

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February
2, 2023, Plaintiff Nala Robinson, by and through her
Guardian Ad Litem, Melissa Reyes (“Claimant”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant Yessenea Ruelas (“Defendant/Respondent”) and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive
for: (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence. 
 
On January 26, 2024, Petitioner Melissa Reyes filed a
Petition for Expedited Approval of Minor Compromise Claim. On February 13,
2024, this Court denied the petition noting the following defects: (1) no proof
of service attached to the petition indicating Respondent was served with the
petition and (2) inconsistencies with the net balance amount remaining for
claimant. The Court also ordered Petitioner to resubmit the petition and
provide proof of service. 
On May
14, 2024, the Petition was continued to allow Petitioner to correct the
following defects: line
19b(2) leaves the amount to be deposited into a blocked insured account blank
and there is no Attachment 19b(2) specifying the name, branch, and address of
each depository where the net balance of proceeds will be deposited. Further,
line 9a of the Proposed Order is left blank regarding the name, branch, and
address of each depository where the net balance of proceeds will be deposited.

On May 20,
2024, Petitioner filed the instant Petition for Expedited Approval of Minor
Compromise Claim. 
 
On June
12, 2024, the Court continued the hearing due to additional deficiencies in the
Petition and ordered the moving party to correct the deficiencies and at least
5-court days prior to the next hearing date file and serve supplemental
papers.  On July 8, Petitioner filed the
untimely supplemental papers. 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Petition for Expedited Approval for Minor Compromise
Claim 
A.   
Legal Standard
This is an
expedited petition without a hearing, which is permitted under Cal Rules of
Court, Rule 7.950.5, so long as Petitioner uses the required Judicial Council
forms and meets certain conditions. The settlement must not exceed $50,000. The
conditions are:  
·        
Petitioner is represented by an attorney
·        
The claim is not for wrongful death
·        
Settlement proceeds will not be placed in a trust
·        
There are no unresolved liens to be satisfied from
the proceeds of the settlement
·        
Petitioner’s attorney did not become involved at the
request of Defendant or the insurance carrier¿
·        
Petitioner’s attorney is not employed by nor
associated with a Defendant or the insurance carrier in connection with the
petition
·        
If an action is filed, all Defendants have appeared
and are participating in the compromise OR the court
has determined the settlement to be in good faith¿ 
·        
The settlement, exclusive of interests and costs, is
$50,000 or less¿¿ 
·        
OR if greater than $50,000, the
amount payable is the insurance policy limits AND all¿ 
·        
proposed contributing parties would be substantially
unable to use assets other than the insurance policy limits
·        
AND the court does not otherwise order
B.  Discussion
Type of Case: Motor Vehicle Accident 
NAME OF MINOR: Nala Robinson (Age 13) 
NAME OF GUARDIAN AD LITEM: Melissa
Reyes 
NAME OF
DEFENDANT(S): Yessenea Ruelas 
Settlement: ……………………………………………. $
10,000.00 (Petition ¶ 11a.)
Attorneys’ fees:………………………………………... $
2,500.00 (Petition ¶ 14a.)
Litigation and other
costs:……………………………… $ 747.28 (Petition ¶ 14b.)
Medical
Bills: …………………………………………. $ 3,838.00 (Petition ¶ 13a(4).)
TOTAL TO BE PAID TO MINOR…………………… $
2,914.72 (Petition ¶16; 17f.)
General Requirements 
• Petition on Form MC-350EX? OK 
• Proposed Order on Form MC-351? OK 
• Proof of service on other parties? YES
Type of injury, medical expenses 
• Medical records documenting
injuries, treatment and expenses? YES (Petition, Attachment 9.) 
• Negotiated reduction in medical
liens? NO 
• Letters evidencing reduction in
medical liens? N/A 
• Injuries completely healed? YES.
(Petition ¶ 9a.) 
Handling of funds 
• How are settlement funds to be
disposed of? (Petition ¶ 19b(2).)
Attorneys’ Fees and Litigation Costs 
• Attorneys’ fees requested? YES.
• If yes, attorney declaration
including factors under CRC Rule 7.955(b)? YES.
• Litigation costs requested? YES
(Petition ¶ 14b.) 
• Costs itemized and
reasonable? YES. (Petition, Attach. 14(a).) Petitioner’s counsel additionally
includes a copy of their Attorney-Client Contingent Retainer Agreement which
sets attorney’s fees at 25 percent of the settlement amount. (Kenneth L. Snyder
Decl. ¶ 5.)
II.        Conclusion 
            
            The Petition For Expedited
Approval of Minor Compromise Claim (Nala Robinson, Age:12) is GRANTED. 
 
Petitioner is ordered to give
notice of ruling. 