 Case Number:  21STCV30186    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  T MCLELLAN V TEMPLE CITY  21STCV30186 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Anne McLellan’s Motion to Compel  Answers to Deposition Questions is GRANTED and Deponent Samuel DeFillippo is  directed to appear for deposition and answer the subject questions.  Plaintiff Anne McLellan’s request for  monetary sanctions is DENIED. Defendant City of Temple City’s request for  monetary sanctions is DENIED.Objections by plaintiff are overruled as they were relevant (and used only) as to intent of the objections and instructions at the deposition. Introduction  Plaintiff Anne McLellan  (Plaintiff) moved to compel answers to deposition questions from Deponent  Samuel DeFillippo (Deponent), as a percipient witness.  Defendant City of Temple City (Defendant)  objected to the questions on the grounds of expert testimony and instructed  Deponent not to answer.  Plaintiff  requested $4,400.00 in sanctions from Defendant and their Counsel, Christpher  J. Bagnaschi.  Defendant opposed the  motion and requested $3,000.00 in sanctions from Plaintiff. Discussion  If a deponent fails to answer any  question, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order  compelling that answer.  (Code Civ.  Proc., sec. 2025.480(a).)  At issue is  whether the questions posed at the deposition were fact questions or expert  opinion questions.  Expert opinion  involves matters “related to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common  experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the trier of fact; and  based on matter (including special knowledge, skill, experience, training, and  education) perceived by or personally known to the witness or made known to him  at or before the hearing, that is of a type reasonably may be relied upon by an  expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his testimony relates,  unless an expert is precluded by law from using such matter as a basis for his  opinion.”  (Evid. Code, sec. 801.)  Questions 1 through 4 sought the sources of  the information found in the presentation’s slides.  Questions 5 through 14 sought responses to  questions regarding what information or advise was disseminated at the  presentation.  A plain reading of the  questions does not show that any expert opinion was requested or even an  opinion related to the facts of this case.   The questions only sought the information used in creating the slides  for the presentation and the information disseminated at the presentation,  without any connection to the facts of this case.  None of the questions made any reference to  the facts of this case.  Without  reference to any facts of this case, Mr. DeFillippo’s answers would not be  “based on matter … perceived by or personally known to the witness or made  known to him at or before the hearing.”   It may be that Mr. DeFillippo may use his knowledge or expertise  garnered from his research in developing the presentation to form an opinion as  to the facts of this case but the fact that such knowledge or expertise can be  both used to develop the presentation and also form an opinion in this case does  not make the information sought from Mr. DeFillippo expert opinion.  Nothing in the questions make any reference  to any facts of this case.   The Court  does not find Defendant’s objection to be persuasive.   The motion to compel the deponent  to answer is GRANTED. Further, it is noted that Mr.  DeFillippo is appearing as a “percipient” witness and not as an expert. The  protective order from 2/26/2024 states: "Based on the foregoing, the  protective order to preclude the City’s expert DeFillippo from being deposed  under the St. Mary’s exception, prior to expert exchange, is  GRANTED."  Because Mr. DeFillippo is  the City's expert as well as a percipient witness, the City's position was not  unreasonable. The Court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party,  person, or attorney who unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel an answer,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  2025.480(j).)  The Court finds that  circumstances exist that would make sanctions unjust.  Defendant’s objection, although unpersuasive  to the Court, was seen to be made in good faith, based upon the Protective  Order, facts, and legal authority.  The  Court does not find Defendant’s objection to be an abuse of the discovery  process.   Plaintiff’s request for monetary  sanctions is DENIED. Defendant’s request for monetary  sanctions is DENIED because Defendant was not the prevailing party.   IT IS SO ORDERED.  DEFENSE COUNSEL TO PROVIDE VERBATIM NOTICE OF  THIS ORDER.