 Case Number:  24STCV16651    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 12:06 PM on December 9,
2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on December 9,
2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.            Plaintiff
argues that she is a loan creditor of Defendants, and although Defendant Yoon
filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, his wife was not disclosed in the petition, and
she fraudulently transferred her 50% interest in real property to her sun.   
 
            Plaintiff
applies for an order permitting service of the summons and complaint upon
Defendant Joshua Seunghun Park by publication.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff
Vivian Kim’s application for an order permitting service of summons and
complaint upon Defendant Joshua Seunghun Park by publication is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion For Order
Permitting Service By Publication
 
            Plaintiff
applies for an order permitting service of the summons and complaint upon
Defendant Joshua Seunghun Park by publication in the Hermit & San Jacinto Chronicle,
which is the newspaper of general circulation in California most likely to give
notice to Defendant at his last known address in Temecula, California, where he
owns a house.
 
Civ. Proc. Code, § 415.50(a) & (b) provide:
 
(a) A summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it
appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that
the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another
manner specified in this article and that either:
 
 (1) A cause of action exists against the party upon whom
service is to be made or he or she is a necessary or proper party to the
action.
 
 (2) The party to be served has or claims an interest in
real or personal property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of
the court or the relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in
excluding the party from any interest in the property.
 
(b) The court shall order the summons to be published in a named
newspaper, published in this state, that is most likely to give actual notice
to the party to be served. If the party to be served resides or is located out
of this state, the court may also order the summons to be published in a named
newspaper outside this state that is most likely to give actual notice to that
party. The order shall direct that a copy of the summons, the complaint, and
the order for publication be forthwith mailed to the party if his or her
address is ascertained before expiration of the time prescribed for publication
of the summons. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the publication shall
be made as provided by Section 6064 of the Government Code unless the court, in
its discretion, orders publication for a longer period.
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code, §
415.50(a) & (b).)
 
            Here, a causes of action for fraudulent
transfer exist against Defendant Joshua and he owns an interest in real
property which is the subject of the fraudulent transfer cause of action. 
 
            Plaintiff has demonstrated by
affidavit that Defendant Joshua Seunghun Park cannot be served with reasonable
diligence because the process servers have been unable to serve Defendant
despite 11 service attempts at the address traced to Defendant. (Declaration of
Jiyoung Kym, ¶¶ 9 – 15.)
 
            Accordingly, the application for
an order permitting service of summons and complaint upon Defendant Joshua Seunghun Park by publication is
GRANTED.