  Case Number:  24VECV00521    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




J & J
  PROPERTIES - CORSA, LLC 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 S & K HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
Defendant. 


          Case Number             Department
     24VECV00521         107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
Demurrer
  to Unlawful Detainer Complaint



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]
This court OVERRULES the Demurrer.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February 12, 2018, plaintiff J & J Properties – Corsa, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) leased a commercial real property (the “Premises”) to defendant S
& K Health Services, Inc. (“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiff,
“Parties”). (Complaint p. 2.) 
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with a thirty-day Notice to
Cure Covenant or Quit (the “First Cure-or-Quit”), which lists several
complaints Plaintiff had received from neighbors about noise from the Premises
over the preceding couple of months. (Complaint Exh. “A” to Exh. “2.”)
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with another thirty-day
Notice to Cure Covenant or Quit (the “Second Cure-or-Quit” and, together with
the First Cure-or-Quit, the “Cure-or-Quits”), which lists several more
complaints Plaintiff had received from neighbors about noise from the Premises
since the First Cure-or-Quit. (Complaint pp. 2–3, Exh. “2.”)
 
Plaintiff alleges that by February 2, 2024, Defendant had failed to comply
with the Second Cure-or-Quit but retained possession of the Premises.
(Complaint p. 3; Opposition p. 3.) A few days later, on February 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant unlawful detainer complaint (the “Complaint”).
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendant filed the demurrer (the “Demurrer”) we now
consider, and the next day, Plaintiff filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to
the Demurrer. On February 22, 2024, Defendant replied to the Opposition (via
the “Reply”).
 
II. PARTY POSITIONS 
 
            The Demurrer
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint, and each cause of action therein, on the
grounds that they fail to assert facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant, and on the grounds that they are uncertain. (Notice
of Demurrer p. 2.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to establish all the
elements necessary for an unlawful detainer because it does not “set forth the
facts on which the plaintiff seeks to recover.” (Demurrer p. 5.) Specifically,
Defendant denies that Plaintiff alleges any lease terms regarding noise that
Defendant violated and therefore any right to recover possession of the
Premises. (Ibid.) Defendant also argues that the Complaint is uncertain because
it fails to allege any facts about the notice for the Cure-or-Quits and again
because it does not specify which lease terms regarding noise Defendant
violated. (Id. pp. 5–6.)
 
            The Opposition
 
Plaintiff argues that the Complaint attaches sufficient information for
Defendant to know on what grounds the Complaint was filed and what the
Pay-or-Quits demanded of it, and to either admit or deny all the allegations in
the Complaint. (Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiff contends that attachment of the
underlying lease is not required for commercial leases and that the Complaint
alleges sufficient facts about the lease. (Id., pp. 4–5.)
 
            The Reply
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s “scanty pleadings” do not provide
“sufficient information [for Defendant] to be able to respond to the Complaint”
because it has operated under the lease on Plaintiff’s property for six years
and is unable to determine “what covenant has been breached, how it has been
breached, and whether notice given is adequate under the circumstances.” (Reply
p. 2.) Defendant raises the argument that “Plaintiff has consented to
Defendant’s business for many years, and cannot now say Defendant has breached
the lease simply for operating their business according to the terms of the
lease.” (Ibid.) Defendant contends that the lease terms identified in “Exhibit
2” to the Complaint only add to its cofusion because they apply to only the common
areas of the property on which the Premises are located, not the Premises
themselves, and because they use a defined term without providing the
corresponding definition. (Id. at pp. 2–3.) “At best, Defendant can glean that
the asserted breach is about noise, but not the specific contractual or legal
basis for asserting the breach.” (Id. at p. 3.) 
 
III. MEET & CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41(a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer. Further, 
 
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration
stating either of the following:
 
(A)       The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer.
 
(B)       That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)
 
We note that Defendant does not include any declaration stating either that
the meet and confer requirement has been met or that Parties were unable to
meet this requirement, as required by California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41(a)(3). We
therefore remind parties of their obligation to meet and confer with each other
in good faith prior to the filing of a demurrer.
            
IV. ANALYSIS 
 
“A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the complaint,” which is “is
reviewed [] to determine whether it contains sufficient facts to state a cause
of action.” (Lee v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 848, 853.) As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.”
(E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As
such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
In ruling upon demurrers, courts treat as being true “not only the
complaint's material factual allegations, but also facts that may be implied or
inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Poseidon Development, Inc. v. Woodland
Lane Estates, LLC (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1106, 1111–12; accord Schauer v.
Mandarin Gems of Cal., Inc. (2005) 125 Cal. App. 4th 949, 953.) Courts read the
allegations liberally, reasonably and in context. (MKB Management, Inc. v.
Melikian (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 796, 802; McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical
Co.  (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 77;
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.) “A plaintiff need not particularize matters presumptively within
the knowledge of the demurring defendant.” (Thomas v. Regents of the University
of California (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587, 611; accord Chen v. Berenjian (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822 [“A demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled when
the facts as to which the complaint is uncertain are presumptively within the
defendant's knowledge.”].) “A complaint will be upheld so long as the pleading
gives notice of the issues sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.”
(Thomas v. Regents of the University of California, supra at 611.)
 
As demurrers that challenge exhibits to a complaint, “if the exhibits are
ambiguous and can be construed in the manner suggested by plaintiff, then we
must accept the construction offered by plaintiff.” (SC Manufactured Homes,
Inc. v. Liebert (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 68, 83.) “[F]acts appearing in exhibits
attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true and, if contrary to the
allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.” (Dodd v. Citizens Bank
of Costa Mesa (1990) 222 Cal. App. 3d 1624, 1627; accord Moran v. Prime
Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1145–46.) 
 
Here, Defendant alleges the Complaint is deficient because Plaintiff fails
to “set forth the facts on which the plaintiff seeks to recover” as required
for unlawful detainer complaints by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1166(a) and because
it “fail[s] to make any allegations as to the lease terms agreed to between the
parties as to ‘noise’” and “fail[s] to allege any facts that support its
alleged right to recover possession of the premises.” (Demurrer p. 5.) However,
a copy of the lease between Parties is presumptively in Defendant’s possession
and its lease terms regarding noise therefore presumptively in Defendant’s
knowledge. We note that Defendant does not deny possession of the lease. Thus,
following Thomas v. Regents of the University of California and Chen v.
Berenjian, because Defendant presumptively has knowledge of the lease terms,
Plaintiff does not need to plead them in the Complaint. 
 
Defendant further alleges that the Complaint is uncertain because
“Defendant has no way of knowing what actions le[]d to the notice, if the
notice was properly given or served, and what lease term sets the standard that
Plaintiff relies upon.” (Id. at p. 6.) We observe, however, that the Complaint
specifically identifies in “Exhibit 2” “what actions le[]d to the notice” by
listing dates and brief descriptions of alleged noise complaints; that the
Complaint specifically identifies in paragraph 10 how the notice was “given or
served”; and that the Complaint specifically identifies in “Exhibit 2” which
lease terms Defendant allegedly breached. Following SC Manufactured Homes, Inc.
v. Liebert, Dodd v. Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa, and Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management,
Inc., we take facts appearing in Exhibit 2, including the quoted lease terms
and the allegations about prior noise complaints, as true and construe them in
the manner offered by Plaintiff. Moreover, as found above, Defendant
presumptively possesses a copy of the lease and presumptively possesses
knowledge of the lease’s terms.
 
Defendant finally alleges that the Complaint is uncertain because
“Plaintiff has failed to allege what lease terms allegedly control service of
[the Cure-or-Quits]” and therefore “Defendant is unable to assess whether
service of the notice meets contractual and legal requirements.” However, as
found above, Plaintiff is not required to plead all lease terms because
Defendant presumptively possesses a copy of the lease, and its terms are
therefore presumptively within Defendant’s knowledge.
 
Defendant raises the argument in the Reply essentially that Plaintiff is
estopped from alleging a breach of the lease between the Parties because it has
consented over the past six years of Defendant’s tenancy to Defendant’s
business and behavior. However, this argument is not properly raised in a
demurrer, which only asks whether the allegations of the Complaint, when taken
as true, sufficiently constitute a valid cause of action. We therefore do not
address this argument further in this ruling on the Demurrer.
 
Accordingly, this court OVERRULES the Demurrer.
 
 
 
Dated:  February 29, 2024                                                                                                        
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court