 Case Number:  20STCV28221    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  71 Galicia v. DS
Services of America, Inc.
Case No. 20STCV28221
Tentative Ruling
 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel, Raymond Ghermezian, Esq., was ordered a 5th time to provide
Code of Civil Procedure compliant responses to Defendants’ requests for production
and to show cause on September 29, 2023, why he should not be sanctioned $1,000
and/or Plaintiff’s case dismissed for having failed to do so.  At issue on September 5, was Plaintiff’s
response to requests for production which read, 
“Plaintiff has conducted a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made to comply with this demand.
Furthermore, plaintiff has made a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain
the information requested by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.
Plaintiff is fully complying with this request for inspection. Plaintiff hereby
produces all documents within Plaintiff’s possession and/or control requested
by propounding party and plaintiff will produce herein in whole all records
within plaintiff’s possession and control. The plaintiff will comply with this
particular demand and hereby states that the production demanded will be
allowed and that all documents or things in this demanded category that are in
the possession, custody, or control of plaintiff will be included in this
production. Plaintiff cannot produce all documents requested because plaintiff
does not have possession or control all requested documents. Please see
attached exhibit “1”. Discovery and investigation continuing. Plaintiff
reserves the right to supplement and/or amend this response.” [sic]
In its minute order of September 5,
the Court the admonished Plaintiff’s counsel that this response did not comply
with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.210-2031.240 because
it inappropriately indicated that Plaintiff was both fully complying and yet unable
to fully comply with the request. The response indicated that Plaintiff was
fully complying by producing those items in his possession, custody, or
control, while also indicating that there are items responsive to the request
that are not being produced. Plaintiff did not specify whether the inability to
produce the items was because the particular item or category had never
existed, had been destroyed, had been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or had never
been, or was no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of Plaintiff. In
other words, Plaintiff’s responses were that whatever items Plaintiff had
Plaintiff was producing, but Plaintiff refused to indicate what responsive
documents he was not producing or why he was not producing them.
Mr. Ghermezian responds to the
Order to Show Cause with a declaration to which is attached a number of
exhibits, including Exhibit 1, “Plaintiff’s Sixth Further Response to Defendant’s
Production of Documents (Set One).” 
[sic]  In Exhibit 1, Mr. Ghermezian
has amended the above response to read, 
“Plaintiff has conducted a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made to comply with this demand.
Furthermore, plaintiff has made a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain
the information requested by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.
Plaintiff is fully complying with this request for inspection. Plaintiff hereby
produces all documents within Plaintiff’s possession and/or control requested
by propounding party and plaintiff will produce herein in whole all records
within plaintiff’s possession and control. The plaintiff will comply with this
particular demand and hereby states that the production demanded will be
allowed and that all documents or things in this demanded category that are in
the possession, custody, or control of plaintiff will be included in this
production. Please see attached exhibit “1". Discovery and investigation
continuing.  Plaintiff reserves the right
to supplement and/or amend this response.”
The only difference between this version and the version of
the response the Court found deficient is Plaintiff’s removal of the sentence, “Plaintiff
cannot produce all documents requested because plaintiff does not have
possession or control all requested documents.” 
[sic]
 
Plaintiff’s Sixth Further Response to Defendant’s Production
of Documents (Set One) are still not Code of Civil Procedure compliant.  
The Court finds that the removal
does not correct the deficiency in the response.  Although the response no longer states that
Plaintiff is unable to fully comply with the request and nominally indicates
that Plaintiff is allowing making the requested production in whole, the
response still limits the production to only those items in the possession,
custody, or control of plaintiff, without indicating whether any items not in
the possession, custody, or control of plaintiff exist.  The response is uncertain, therefore, and
prevents Defendant from knowing whether the items Plaintiff has produced comprise
the universe of the items responsive to the request.  
If Plaintiff is complying in whole,
his response should read simply,
“Plaintiff will comply in whole to
this request.” (Code of Civil Procedure, section 2031.220.)  
If Plaintiff is unable to comply in whole, Plaintiff’s
response must so state, and explain why. 
(Code of Civil Procedure, section 2031.230.)  
            The Court explained
this to Mr. Ghermezian at the September 5, 2023, hearing and in the Court’s
minute order following that hearing. 
Yet, Mr. Ghermezian still fails to provide Code-compliant
responses.  
Plaintiff’s Sixth Further Response to Defendant’s Production
of Documents (Set One) may not be verified. 

            On
September 26, 2023, Defendant filed a Response to Mr. Ghermezian’s Declaration.  Included within the Response is a Declaration
of Alexander Robinson, setting forth information indicating that Plaintiff may
not have verified any of the responses served by Plaintiff’s counsel since
December 1, 2022.  According to Mr.
Robinson’s research, Plaintiff’s “DocuSign” signatures since that date appear
to simply be a photocopy of a “DocuSign” signature dated December 1, 2022.  
If true, these allegations pose
significant issues.  Plaintiff’s
submission of falsely verified discovery responses is tantamount to a violation
of the Court’s prior orders to provide further discovery responses for which terminating
sanctions may be appropriate.  The California
Supreme Court instructs that falsifying discovery verifications is a serious
breach.  Verified discovery responses
enable opposing counsel to properly assess the merits of a claim or defense and
serve an important role in the efficient resolution of disputes. Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
779-783.  The use of a pre-signed verification in discovery proceedings,
without first consulting with the client to assure that any assertions of fact
are true, is a clear and serious violation of the statutes and rules.  (Drociak v. State Bar (1991) 52 Cal.3d 1085, 1090.)
 
Future Handling  
            The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s counsel had not complied with the Court’s September 5, 2023,
order to provide Code of Civil Procedure compliant discovery responses.  The Court therefore sanctions Raymond Ghermezian
$1,000, payable to the Court by October 30, 2023.  The Court also orders Plaintiff, for a 6th
time, to provide Code-complaint responses to Defendants’ First set of Requests
for Production by October 30, 2023.  
In addition, the Court sets a
hearing on an order to show cause why Plaintiff’s counsel should not be
sanctioned $2,000 and/or Plaintiff’s case dismissed for failing to provide Code
of Civil Procedure compliant discovery responses to Defendants’ First set of
Requests for Production on October 30, 202, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 71.  The Court also sets a hearing to show cause
why the Court should consider any of Plaintiff’s discovery responses served
after December 1, 2022, verified, and, if the Court finds that there were not
properly verified, why the Court should not sanction Plaintiff’s counsel $2,000
and/or dismiss Plaintiff’s case.  Raymond
Ghermezian, Esq., and Juan Galicia are ordered to appear in person in
Department 71  at these hearings. 
The Court advances and vacates the
January 12, 2024, Final Status Conference and the February 9, 2024, Trial dates,
and sets a Trial Setting Conference on October 30, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
71. 