  Case Number:  21STCV03830    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  January 29, 2021, Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”), a minor, by and through her  guardian ad litem, Renee Noye, filed this action against Defendants Long Beach  Unified School District, Jane Does 1-15, and Does 16-100 for negligence,  intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional  distress, and negligence.  On  May 31, 2022, the Court appointed Renee Noye to serve as Plaintiff’s guardian  ad litem.  On  August 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants  Long Beach Unified School District, Jane Does 1-15, and Does 16-100 for  negligent supervision of students, intentional infliction of emotional  distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and negligence.  On  October 8, 2022, Defendant Long Beach Unified School District (“Defendant”)  filed an answer.  On  February 2, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,  summary adjudication.  The motion was set  for hearing on April 19, 2024.  On April  3, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application and continued the  hearing to June 18, 2024 under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,  subdivision (h).  On May 30, 2024, the  Court denied Plaintiff’s second ex parte application to continue the hearing.  On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition.  On June 13, 2024, Defendant filed  a reply. The Court continued the hearing to July 30, 2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for September 24, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must  file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of  the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating  whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.  The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material  facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact  contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference  to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable  separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion  constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending  party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)   DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE            Denied.  DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS            Overruled.  DISCUSSION  A.   The first amended complaint  The first  amended complaint alleges the following:  During  the 2019-2020 school year, while Plaintiff was fifteen and sixteen years old  and a student at Lakewood High School, several of her female classmates bullied  her for approximately one year.  The  bullying included taunting Plaintiff, ridiculing her, and calling her names.  The bullying occurred during class time, snack  time, lunchtime, and at other times and locations on campus.  Plaintiff, her parents, and other students  advised the school’s staff and administration of the bullying but the school failed  to take any action to prevent or stop it.  On  an unspecified date, ten to fifteen tenth grade girls followed Plaintiff as she  exited the school and walked to Pan American Park.  At the park, the girls physically attacked  and brutalized Plaintiff. Plaintiff  sustained a chronic subdural hematoma that required brain surgery, a fractured  jaw, and brain bleed.  Before  the incident, the bullying was reported to the Vice-Principal.  The Vice-Principal failed to intervene.  Prior  to the attack, school security followed the girls to the park but failed to  protect Plaintiff or prevent the altercation.  The  school minimized and covered up the bullying, leading Plaintiff’s parents to  believe that the issues were minor and had been resolved.  The school’s staff and administration  represented to Plaintiff's parents that the bullying had been resolved, that  the bullying never really happened, and that if any bullying ever happened, it  was much less severe than Plaintiff reported.   The school’s representations to Plaintiff’s parents were false.  Plaintiff’s parents relied on the  representations.  The school administration falsely told Plaintiff that  she was not being bullied and that she had never been bullied at the school.  The District  and Doe defendants breached their duty to properly and adequately supervise  Plaintiff and the other students and to take the necessary steps to prevent  further bullying, causing Plaintiff’s injury.  The  first amended complaint asserts a claim against the District for negligent  supervision of students under Government Code sections 815.2, 815.6, and 820 (first  cause of action).  B.   The motion for summary judgment or adjudication  1.    Defendant has carried its initial burden on summary  judgment  Defendant  argues the Court should grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication because Plaintiff allegedly was attacked after school at Pan  American Park, which was not part of the school premises.  Defendant  relies on Education Code section 44808, which provides:  “Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, no  school district, city or county board of education, county superintendent of  schools, or any officer or employee of such district or board shall be  responsible or in any way liable for the conduct or safety of any pupil of the  public schools at any time when such pupil is not on school property, unless  such district, board, or person has undertaken to provide transportation for  such pupil to and from the school premises, has undertaken a school-sponsored activity  off the premises of such school, has otherwise specifically assumed such  responsibility or liability or has failed to exercise reasonable care under the  circumstances.  “In the event of such a specific undertaking, the  district, board, or person shall be liable or responsible for the conduct or  safety of any pupil only while such pupil is or should be under the immediate  and direct supervision of an employee of such district or board.”  (Educ. Code, § 44808.)  “A  school district ‘owes a duty of care to its students because a special  relationship exists between the students and the district.’ ” (Brinsmead v.  Elk Grove Unified School Dist. (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 583, 588, quoting Guerrero  v. South Bay Union School Dist. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 264, 268.)  “But that special relationship does not create  liability on its own.”  (Ibid.) “  ‘ “The liability of public entities is entirely statutory.” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting  Bassett v. Lakeside Inn, Inc. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 863, 869.)  “A school district's liability is limited by [Education  Code] section 44808.”  (Ibid.)  “Under section 44808, a district is immune  from liability ‘for the conduct or safety of any pupil of the public schools at  any time when [the] pupil is not on school property.’ ” (Ibid., quoting  Educ. Code, § 44808; see Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th  1340, 1357 [under Education Code section 44808, “school districts are not  responsible for the safety of students outside school property absent a  specific undertaking by the school district and direct supervision by a  district employee”].)  Defendant  has presented evidence that Plaintiff was not on school property when other  students allegedly attacked and injured her after school had ended for the day.   Based on this evidence, Defendant has carried its initial burden on  summary judgment of proving it is entitled to immunity under Education Code section 88404, shifting the burden to Plaintiff.  2.    Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact  Plaintiff  argues that Defendant is responsible for her injuries because Defendant’s  employees failed to take steps, while Plaintiff and her attackers were on school  grounds, to stop the bullying and prevent it from escalating.  Plaintiff  relies on Hoyem v. Manhattan Beach Sch. Dist. (1978) 22 Cal.3d 508 (Hoyem),  where a student left the school premises before the end of scheduled classes  and was struck by a motorcycle at a public intersection.  (Hoyem, supra,  22 Cal.3d at p. 512.)  The student sued  the school district, alleging the school district’s negligent supervision  caused his injuries.  (Ibid.)  The trial court sustained the school district’s  demurrer and dismissed the case.  (Ibid.)  The  Supreme Court reversed, holding that the complaint stated a cause of action because it alleged the school district failed to exercise ordinary care in supervising the  student while he was on school premises, causing the injury.  (Hoyem, supra,  22 Cal.3d at pp. 513-514.)  The district's duty to supervise included a duty to enforce the regulation forbidding students from leaving  school premises “ ‘at any other time before the regular hour for closing school  . . . .’ ”  (Id. at p. 514,  quoting Title 5, Cal. Admin. Code, § 303.)  Addressing Education Code section 44808, the Court stated: “Although the initial  portion of the statute provides that ‘no school district shall be responsible . . . for the conduct or safety of any pupil . . . at any time when such pupil is  not on school property,’ the section goes on explicitly to withdraw this grant  of immunity whenever the school district, inter alia, ‘has failed to exercise  reasonable care under the circumstances.’”  (Hoyem, supra, 22 Cal.3d at p.  517.)  Because Plaintiff’s complaint alleged  that the school district failed to exercise reasonable care, the statute did  not bar liability at the demurrer stage.   (Ibid.)  The  Court of Appeal addressed the scope of Hoyem’s holding in LeRoy v.  Yarboi (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 737 (LeRoy), where a student who had  been bullied at school committed suicide at home.  (LeRoy, supra,  71 Cal.App.5th at p. 739.) In LeRoy, the student's parents sued the  school district, alleging it was liable for their son’s suicide because of its  inadequate response to his complaints of bullying by his classmates. (Ibid.)  The trial court granted summary judgment for the  district.  (Ibid.) On appeal, the parents relied on Hoyem to support their argument that Education Code section  44808 did not immunize the school district because it “ ‘failed to exercise reasonable  care under the circumstances.’ ”  (LeRoy, supra,  71 Cal.App.5th at p. 743, quoting Educ. Code, § 44808.)  The  Court of Appeal rejected the argument, stating:  “We acknowledge that some language from Hoyem  suggests that school districts and their employees may be liable for injuries a  student suffers off-campus and after school. [Citation.] But [Education Code] section  44808 has been interpreted as imposing liability on schools districts for a  student’s off-campus injury only when ‘the student is involved in activities  supervised or undertaken by the school.’   [Citation.]  In fact, the ‘consensus  of decisions from the Court of Appeal is that “[Education Code] section 44808  limits the liability of schools for after-hours, off-campus activity, absent a  specific undertaking” ’ ” by the school during which a student is injured.  [Citation.]  Thus, with one exception, every court since Hoyem,  including this court, ‘has interpreted [Education Code] section 44808 to  provide that school districts are not responsible for the safety of students  outside school property absent a specific undertaking by the school district  and direct supervision by a district employee.’  [Citations.]  “We agree with the great weight of authority that [Education  Code] section 44808 “ ‘ “grants a district [and its employees] immunity [for a  student’s injuries] unless [the] student was (or should have been) directly  supervised during a specified undertaking.” ’ [Citation.]”  [Citations.]  We in turn agree that ‘[t]he  portion of [Education Code] section 44808 that refers to failing to exercise  reasonable care’ that the [plaintiffs] rely on ‘does not create a common law  form of general negligence; it refers to the failure to exercise reasonable  care during one of the [three] mentioned undertakings’ in [Education Code] section  44808.  [Citations.]”  (LeRoy, supra, 71  Cal.App.5th at pp. 743-744.)            The Court of Appeal concluded that the student committed  suicide off-campus during summer break at his home while he was not and should  not have been supervised by the school district or its employees.  (LeRoy, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th  at p. 744.)   Therefore, the district was immune from liability under Education Code  section 44808.  (Ibid.)            The reasoning of LeRoy applies here.  Plaintiff has not raised a  triable issue of fact concerning immunity under Education Code section 88404 because she has not presented evidence that Defendant "ha[d] undertaken to provide transportation for [Plaintiff] to and from the school premises, ha[d] undertaken a school-sponsored activity off the premises of such school, [or] ha[d] otherwise specifically assumed such responsibility or liability . . . ."  (Educ. Code, § 44808.)  Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Long Beach Unified School District’s motion for summary judgment.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling within five days.