 Case Number:  23STCP01609    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  25  Richard Bairos, et al. v. 7174 Melrose Avenue, LLC 23stcp01609ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On May 11, 2023, Petitioners Richard Bairos (“Richard”)
and Gary Bairos (“Gary”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant Petition
to Compel Arbitration and to Appoint JAMS to Conduct Arbitrator [sic]
(“Petition”) against Respondent 7174 Melrose Avenue, LLC (“Melrose”).
 
            On July 13, 2023, Respondent filed a
Response to the Petition.
 
            On September 14, 2023, the Court, on
its own motion, continued the hearing to September 21, 2023.  (9-14-23 Minute Order.)
 
            No reply has been filed.
 
II.             
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§1281.2, generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the
petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists;
(2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for
revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the
arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting¿rulings on common issues.
 
When seeking to compel arbitration, the
initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by prepondernace of evidence.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It is sufficient for the moving
party to produce a copy of the arbitration agreement or set forth the
agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The
burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.) 
Subsequently, the moving party must establish with the preponderance of
admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then weighs all the evidence
submitted and uses its discretion to make a final determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical
Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.)
 
If the court orders arbitration, then the court shall
stay the action until arbitration is completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
III.           
Discussion
 
The Court notes that Petitioners have not filed proof
that Respondent has been served with the Petition and Notice of Hearing.  However, Respondent has filed a Response to
the Petition and the Court has waived notice. 
(9-14-23 Minute Order.) 
Accordingly, the Court proceeds with ruling on the merits of the
Petition.
 
Petitioners
Richard and Gary Bairos and Respondent Melrose entered into a Standard
Industrial/Commercial Multi-Tenant Lease – Net (“Lease”), attached to the
Petition as Exhibit A.  (Pet. ¶ 4; Gary Bairos Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, Ex. A.)  Pursuant to the Lease Agreement, Petitioners
leased the premises located at 3715 Evans Street, Los Angeles, CA 90027.  (Ibid.)  Included in the Lease Agreement is an
Addendum, which contains a two-page AIR CRE Arbitration Agreement along with
other addendums.  (Pet. ¶ 4; Gary Bairos Decl. ¶¶ 5-7, Exs.
B-D.)  The Arbitration Agreement provides
the following:
 
Except as provided in Paragraph B
below, the Parties agree to resolve any and all claims, disputes or
disagreements arising under this Lease, including, but not limited to any
matter relating to Lessor’s failure to approve an assignment, sublease or other
transfer or Lessee’s interest in the Lease under Paragraph 12 of this Lease,
any other defaults by the Lessor, or any defaults by Lessee by and through
arbitration as provided below and irrevocably waive any and all rights to the
contrary. The Parties agree to at all times conduct themselves in strict, full,
complete and timely accordance with the terms hereof and that any attempt to
circumvent the terms of this Arbitration Agreement shall be null and void and
of no force or effect whatsoever.
 
(Ibid., Ex.
B.)  Moreover, the Arbitration Agreement
provides the parties an opportunity to select an arbitrator affiliated with the
Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services, Inc. (“JAMS”) or the American
Arbitration Association (“AAA”).  (Ibid.)  The Agreement states that “[i]n
the event the Arbitrator is not selected as provided for above for any reason,
the party initiating arbitration shall apply to the appropriate Court for the
appointment of a qualified retired judge to act as the Arbitrator.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Around
March 7 and 17, 2023, disputes arose between the Petitioners and Respondent and
Respondent allegedly breached the Lease Agreement.  (Pet. ¶ 6.) 
Petitioners argue that Respondent refuses to submit the matters to
arbitration with JAMS.  (Ibid. at
¶ 7.)  On May 4, 2023, Petitioners’
counsel served a notice, as required by the Arbitration Agreement, that
Petitioners intended to apply for a Court order compelling arbitration,
“preferably before JAMS.”  (Ibid.
at ¶ 8.)  Petitioners anticipate that Respondent
will argue that the parties have agreed to arbitrate the matter before the
Honorable Victor H. Person (Retired).  (Ibid.
at ¶ 9.)  However, the parties have not
reached an agreement and Petitioners “seek to refer the matter to JAMS because
that is called for in the Lease.”  (Ibid.
at ¶¶ 10-12.)  Petitioners stated that
the parties discussed arbitration before JAMS or by mutual agreement, but
neither mentioned AAA.  (Ibid. at
¶ 13.)  There was no selection made in
the Lease itself, but Petitioners elect to have the matter arbitrated in front
of JAMS.  (Ibid. at ¶¶
14-15.)  Petitioners also present that they
made efforts to select a neutral arbitrator by mutual agreement; however, no
agreement was reached.  (Ibid. at
¶¶ 15-22.)
 
            Thus, Petitioners seek a Court order
compelling arbitration of the dispute between the parties.  (Pet. p. 7.) 
As the parties are unable to agree to a neutral arbitrator, Petitioners
request that the Court appoint JAM to arbitrate the matter.  (Ibid.)
 
In their
Response, Respondent argues that it does not refuse to arbitrate the
matter.  (Response p. 2.)  However, both parties have agreed to
arbitrate the matter before Judge Victor Person of ADR Services, Inc.  (Ibid.)  Thus, the Court should appoint Judge Person
as the Arbitrator.  (Ibid.)  Respondent adds that, as reflected in the
Arbitration Agreement, the parties did not agree in advance to arbitration
before JAMS, AAA, or anyone else.  (Ibid.)  Given that the costs to arbitrate in front of
JAMS or AAA are “excessive, unreasonable and unconscionable…Respondent
vehemently opposes any such arbitration sponsored by either of those
entities.”  (Ibid.)  Respondent argues that there is no basis for
the Court to enforce binding arbitration in front of JAMS or AAA because
“Respondent never agreed to either of those venues” and the Court should not
“circumvent the parties’ intent to arbitrate before particular
arbitrators.”  (Ibid. at p.
3.)  Thus, the Court should order
arbitration before Judge Victor Person, as agreed to by the parties.  (Ibid. at p. 4.)
 
The Court
finds that Petitioners have demonstrated that a valid arbitration agreement
exists, the right to compel arbitration has not been waived, and there are no
grounds for revocation of the agreement, or any pending litigation.  Furthermore, Respondent has expressed that it
agrees to arbitration.
 
The
matter at issue is the selection of a neutral arbitrator.  Having reviewed the Arbitration Agreement,
the Court finds that, although the parties could have selected the venue for
arbitration, they did not select any of the options listed in the
Agreement.  Moreover, there is a clear
dispute regarding the selection of Judge Person as the arbitrator,
demonstrating that the parties have not reached an agreement.
 
According to Code of Civil
Procedure § 1281.6:
 
If the arbitration agreement
provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed.
If the arbitration agreement does not provide a method for appointing an
arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and
that method shall be followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the
agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator
appointed fails to act and his or her successor has not been appointed, the
court, on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the
arbitrator.
 
When a petition is made to the
court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons
from lists of persons supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or
obtained from a governmental agency concerned with arbitration or private
disinterested association concerned with arbitration. The parties to the
agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may
within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court jointly
select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the nominees. If
the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the five-day period, the court
shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.
 
Here, the
parties have not agreed on a method of appointing the arbitrator, thus, the
Court may appoint the arbitrator. 
Pursuant to § 1281.6, the Court requests that the parties jointly
present a list of potential arbitrators. 
Once the list is presented to the Court, the Court will nominate five
persons and the parties will have five days from receipt of notice to jointly
select the arbitrator. If the parties do not select the arbitrator within five
days, the Court will appoint the arbitrator from the list of nominees.
 
Accordingly, the Court continues
the hearing on the Petition and orders the parties to submit a list of
potential arbitrators.
 
IV.           
Conclusion
 
For the reasons discussed above,
 
The hearing on the Petition to
Compel Arbitration and Appoint JAMS to Conduct Arbitrator [sic], filed by
Petitioner Richard Bairos, et al., is CONTINUED to ______________at ____ a.m. in Department
25 at the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.  Petitioners
and Defendant are ordered to file
supplemental papers addressing the issues discussed herein at least 16 court
days before the next scheduled hearing.  Failure to do so will result in the Petition being placed off
calendar or denied.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.