 Case Number:  23STLC01503    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  25  Saini Investments LLC v. Mayra A. Martinez, et
al. 23stlc01503ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On March 3, 2023, Plaintiffs Saini
Investments LLC (“Saini”) and S. Arora Consulting, Inc. (“Arora”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed an action against Defendants Mayra A. Martinez (“Mayra”),
Victor Martinez (“Victor”), and Rodolfo Martinez (“Rodolfo”) for breach of
contract.
 
On May 8, 2023, Defendant Rodolfo,
in propria persona, and Defendant Victor, in propria persona, each filed a
separate Answer to the Complaint.
 
On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
two instant Motions:
 
(1)  
Motion to Deem Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions as
Being Admitted and Request for Monetary Sanctions as to Defendant Victor
Martinez (“Deem – Victor”);
(2)  
Motion to Deem Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions as
Being Admitted and Request for Monetary Sanctions as to Defendant Rodolfo
Martinez (“Deem – Rodolfo”).
 
On August 28, 2023, the Court
continued the hearing on the Motions to September 21, 2023.  (8-28-23 Minute Order.)  No opposition has been filed to either
Motion.
 
II.             
Legal
Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
2033.280(b), failure to respond to requests for admission in a timely manner
allows the requesting party to “move for an order that…the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted” by the party that failed to
respond.  The requesting party’s motion
must be granted by the court, “unless [the court] finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).) 
Since such motion is in response to failure to respond, there is no
requirement to meet and confer prior to moving to deem the requests for
admission admitted.  (See Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007), 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.). By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work product.
(Code Civ. Pro. § 2033.280(a).)
 
III.           
Discussion
 
A.    
Motion as to Defendant Victor Martinez
 
Plaintiff moves to deem Requests
for Admissions (“RFAs”), Set One, admitted as to Defendant Victor.  (Deem – Victor, p. 1.)
 
On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff served
Request for Admissions, Set One, on Defendant Victor.  (Betty Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)  Defendant Victor has not responded to the RFAs
and no extensions have been granted.  (Ibid.
at ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has demonstrated that it has propounded requests for admission
on Defendant Victor and Defendant has not provided any responses.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions as
Being Admitted as to Defendant Victor Martinez is
GRANTED.
 
B.    
Motion as to Defendant Rodolfo Martinez
 
Plaintiff moves to deem Requests
for Admissions (“RFAs”), Set One, admitted as to Defendant Rodolfo.  (Deem – Rodolfo, p. 1.)
 
On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff served
Request for Admissions, Set One, on Defendant Rodolfo.  (Betty Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)  Defendant Rodolfo has not responded to the
RFAs and no extensions have been granted. 
(Ibid. at ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has demonstrated that it has propounded requests for admission
on Defendant Rodolfo and Defendant has not provided any
responses.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions as
Being Admitted as to Defendant Rodolfo Martinez is
GRANTED.
 
C.    Sanctions
 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone because of that conduct.  Misuse
of discovery includes “failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.010(d)).
 
Furthermore, courts are obligated
to impose monetary sanctions in cases where a “failure to serve a timely
response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Ibid.)  Sanctions are calculated based on “reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.”  (Ibid. § 2023.030(a)).
 
Here, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s Motions to Deem Request for Admissions as
Being Admitted as to Defendants Victor and Rodolfo Martinez.  Thus, the Court
must impose sanctions for Defendants’ failure to respond to the discovery
requests.
 
            Plaintiff
requests $850 in sanctions to be paid by Defendant Victor Martinez, as follows:
two (2) hours in preparing the Motion, at an hourly rate of $395.00, plus $60
in motion filing fees.  (Deem – Victor:
Betty Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
            Plaintiff
requests $850 in sanctions to be paid by Defendant Rodolfo Martinez, as
follows: two (2) hours in preparing the Motion, at an hourly rate of $395.00,
plus $60 in motion filing fees.  (Deem –
Rodolfo: Betty Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
            The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s request is excessive for these simple Motions.  Accordingly, the Court grants $455 in
sanctions for one (1) hour of preparing each Motion and $60 for each motion
filing fee.
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions as follows: $455 in sanctions to be paid by Defendant Victor and $455
in sanctions to be paid by Defendant Rodolfo.
 
IV.           
Conclusion & Order
 
For the foregoing reasons:
 
Plaintiff Saini Investments LLC’s Motion
to Deem Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions as Being Admitted as to Defendant
Victor Martinez is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is also GRANTED in the amount of $455, to be
paid by Defendant Victor within thirty (30) days of notice of the Court’s
Order.
 
Plaintiff Saini Investments LLC’s Motion
to Deem Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions as Being Admitted as to Defendant
Rodolfo Martinez is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is also GRANTED in the amount of $455, to be
paid by Defendant Rodolfo within thirty (30) days of notice of the Court’s
Order.
 
Moving party to give notice.