 Case Number:  22STLC07940    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  25  Suresh C. Pathak v. Archana Mazra 22stlc07940ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On
November 29, 2022, Plaintiff Suresh C. Pathak (“Plaintiff”), in propria
persona, filed an action against Defendant Archana Mazra (“Defendant”) for breach
of contract and common counts, arising out of Defendant’s alleged failure to
pay Plaintiff for legal services rendered.
 
            On February
17, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Strike Entire Complaint.  
 
            On July 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
            The Court
denied Defendant’s Motion to Strike; however, the Court, on its own motion,
ordered the First Amended Complaint stricken. 
(8-3-23 Minute Order.)
 
            On August
28, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint
(“Demurrer”).  Defendant also filed an
Answer on the same day.
 
            No
opposition has been filed.
 
II.             
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer is a pleading that may
be used to test the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in the
complaint.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §
430.10.)  There are two types of
demurrers – general demurrers and special demurrers.  (See McKenney v. Purepac
Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 77.)
 
General demurrers can be used to
attack pleadings for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action or for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e); McKenney,
167 Cal.App.4th at 77.)  Such
demurrers can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable;
evidence or extrinsic matters are not considered.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §§ 430.30, 430.70;
Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the Court admits “all material
facts properly pleaded” and “matters which may be judicially noticed,” but does
not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.
[Citation].”  (Blank, 39 Cal.3d at
318.)  It gives these facts “a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.”  (Ibid.). At the pleading
stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the
defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him.  (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.
App. 3d 714, 721.)  The face of the
complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint.  (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94.)  "If facts
appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits
take precedence."  (Holland v.
Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)
 
Special demurrers can be used to
attack the pleadings on grounds that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, and
unintelligible, or in a contract case, for failure to allege whether a contract
is oral or written.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10(f).)  However, special demurrers
are not allowed in limited jurisdiction civil actions and any grounds for
special demurrers must be raised as affirmative defenses in the answer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 92(c).)
 
Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the demurring party shall file
and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
When a demurrer
is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility
that the defect can be cured by amendment. 
(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set
of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the
plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be
deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings
were defective for lack of particulars.”  (Reed v. Norman (1957)
152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.)  Generally, the
court will allow leave to amend on at least the first try, unless there is
absolutely no possibility of overcoming the issue.  (See Angie M. v. Superior Court
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227 ("Denial of leave to amend constitutes an
abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of
amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.").)
 
III.           
Discussion

 
A.     Meet and Confer Requirement
 
Defense
counsel states that on August 24, 2023, prior to filing the instant Demurrer, his
office attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the Demurrer by
phone.  (Antonyan Decl. ¶ 3.)  Attorney Ben Hillel called Plaintiff and left
a voicemail around 3:45 p.m.  (Ibid.)  Attorney Hillel also sent an email to
Plaintiff.   (Ibid. at ¶ 4, Ex.
1.)  On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff called
defense counsel’s office and insisted that Defendant file an Answer to the
Complaint; he did not state whether he would amend the Complaint.  (ibid. at ¶ 5.)
 
The
Court finds that Defendant’s counsel’s declaration is sufficient to satisfy the
meet and confer requirement.
 
B.    
Plaintiff’s Allegations
 
Plaintiff
has filed a form complaint with the following allegations.  Around August 2015, Plaintiff and Defendant entered
into a written agreement whereby Plaintiff agreed to represent Defendant in Los
Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 17STPB00965, consolidated with Case No.
BP164651, at an hourly rate of $250.  (Compl.
BC-1.)  Around December 2018, Defendant
breached the agreement by failing to pay a sum of $16,971 for the legal
services rendered by Plaintiff.  (Ibid.
at BC-2.)  Plaintiff performed all obligations
pursuant to the agreement.  (Ibid.
at BC-3.)  Defendant breached the
agreement and as a result, Plaintiff suffered damages in the amount of $16,971,
plus interest and attorney’s fees according to proof.  (Ibid. at BC-4, BC-5.)
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff sets forth a claim for common counts. 
Defendant became indebted to Plaintiff “within the last four years (1)
on an open book account for money due” and “within the last four years for
work, labor, services and materials rendered at the special instance and
request of defendant and for which defendant promised to pay plaintiff the sum
of $16,971.”  (Compl. CC-1.)  Plaintiff alleges that $16,971 is the
reasonable value due and unpaid to Plaintiff despite Plaintiff’s demand, “plus
prejudgment interest at the rate of 10 percent per year from December 1, 2022”
and attorney’s fees by agreement or statute according to proof.  (CC-2, CC-3.)
 
C.   
Defendant’s Demurrer
 
1.    
First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds that
the allegations fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
for breach of contract and the cause of action is uncertain.  (Dem. p. 3.) 
The Court notes that a special demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty is
not permitted in a limited civil court. 
Thus, the Court will only rule on the demurrer on the grounds that the
Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
breach of contract.
 
Defendant
argus that the Complaint does not plead the material terms of the agreement or
attach a copy of the written agreement. 
(Ibid. at p. 7.)  This
“creates immense hardship on the part of the Defendant” in being able to file a
complete and coherent response and to include any relevant defenses.  (Ibid. at p. 8.)  Given that Defendant does not have the
written agreement in possession, Defendant cannot determine the statute of
limitations, matters at issue, the dates, parties, and terms and conditions of
the agreement.  (Ibid.)
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's
breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  “A written
contract may be pleaded either by its terms – set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference – or by its legal effect. [Citations.]  In order to plead a contract by its legal
effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms.  This is more difficult, for it requires a
careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]” 
(McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457,
1489.)
 
            The Court finds that the Complaint does not present
sufficient facts regarding the terms of the attorney-client agreement.  These terms are not alleged verbatim in the
Complaint and a copy of the contract is not attached.
 
            Given that the Complaint has not been previously amended
and the First Amended Complaint was ordered stricken, there is a reasonable
possibility that these defects can be cured by amendment.
 
            Accordingly, the Court sustains the Demurrer to the first
cause of action with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
2.    
Second Cause of Action – Common Counts
 
Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for common counts on the grounds that the
allegations fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for common
counts and the cause of action is uncertain. 
(Dem. pp. 3-4.)  The Court notes
that a special demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty is not permitted in a
limited civil court.  Thus, the Court
will only rule on the demurrer on the grounds that the Complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for common counts.
 
Defendant argues that the cause of action “cannot be sustained
without a written contract,” especially as California Business and Professions
Code § 6148
requires attorneys to have written agreements when foreseeable expenses will
exceed $1000.  (Dem. p. 9.)  Moreover, Plaintiff “makes vague references
to an open book account for money due for work, labor, services and materials
rendered at the special instance and request of defendant” but there are no
facts alleged regarding the work and services, when payment for these services
became due, and how damages have been calculated.  (Ibid.)  It appears that Plaintiff is asserting this cause
of action as an alternative to the breach of contract cause of action, but he
cannot do so without the necessary requirements.  (Ibid.)
 
To establish a cause of action for common counts,
“[t]he only
essential allegations of a common count are ‘(1) the statement of indebtedness in
a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and
(3) nonpayment…[Citation.]”  (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.)
 
The Court finds that the allegations set forth in the Complaint are
not sufficient for a cause of action for common counts.  Although Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
owes $16,971 for legal services and Defendant has not paid this sum, the
allegations regarding the services rendered are conclusory and do not establish
a cause of action for common count.
 
            Given that the Complaint has not been previously amended
and the First Amended Complaint was ordered stricken, there is a reasonable
possibility that these defects can be cured by amendment.
 
            Accordingly, the Court sustains the Demurrer to the second
cause of action with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
IV.           
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
Defendant Archana Mazra’s Demurrer to the Complaint’s
first and second causes of action is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to
amend.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 