  Case Number:  21STLC02852    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  25  Eli’s Collision Repair of South Bay, Inc. v.
Brown, et al. 21stlc02852ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On April 12, 2021, Plaintiff Eli’s
Collision Repair of South Bay, Inc., also known as Eli’s Collision Repair III,
a California Corporation (“Plaintiff” or “Eli’s”) filed an action against Gannon
Brown (“Brown”) and USAA Casualty Insurance Company, a Texas Corporation
(“USAA”), (collectively “Defendants”) for (1) civil damages for theft, (2)
conversion, (3) claim and delivery, (4) restitution (unjust enrichment),
(5) breach of contract, (6) fraud (intentional misrepresentation), and (7)
negligence.
 
On December 8, 2021, the Court
denied Defendant Brown’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and ordered him to
file and serve a responsive pleading within 20 days of the order.      (12-8-21
Minute Order.)
 
On December 28, 2021, Defendant
Brown filed a Demurrer to the first and third causes of action in Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  The Court overruled Defendant
Brown’s Demurrer.  (2-14-22 Minute
Order.)
 
On February 17, 2022, Defendant
Brown filed an Answer to the Complaint and a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Eli’s.  On
March 22, 2022, Brown filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against
Eli’s for (1) violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, (2) breach of common
law warranty, (3) promissory fraud, and (4) breach of contract.
 
On June 24, 2022, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Eli’s filed a Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint’s first, third, and
fourth causes of action.  On September 7,
2022, the Court sustained the Demurrer to the FACC’s first cause of action for
violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act with 25 days’ leave to amend and
continued the hearing on the Demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action.  (9-7-22 Minute Order.)  On October 3, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Brown filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(“SACC”).  On October 10, 2022, the Court
overruled the Demurrer as moot following the filing of the SACC.  (10-10-22 Minute Order.)
On December 14, 2022,
Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Eli’s filed another Demurrer with Motion to Strike
portions of the SACC.  On February 27,
2023, the Court sustained Eli’s Demurrer to the SACC’s first and third causes
of action without leave to amend. 
(2-27-23 Minute Order.)  The Court
also granted Eli’s Motion to Strike portions of the SACC.  (Ibid.)
 
On January 19, 2023, pursuant to
Plaintiff’s oral request, the Court dismissed Defendant USAA without
prejudice.  (1-19-23 Order of Dismissal.)
 
On August 21 and 24, 2023,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Eli’s filed the two instant Motions:
 
(1)  
Motion to Compel Deposition of Gannon Brown and
Production of Vehicle for Inspection and Order Imposing Monetary Sanctions of
$3,633.80 (“MTC Deposition”);
(2)  
Motion to Compel Production of Vehicle for Inspection
and Impose Monetary Sanctions of $5,016.30 (“MTC Production”).
 
On September 1, 2023, the Court
granted Eli’s Ex Parte Application for Order Continuing Trial (and All Related
Dates), or in the Alternative, an Order Shortening Time for Hearing of
Same.  (9-1-23 Minute Order.)  The Court ordered the trial continued to
November 30, 2023, along with all related discovery and trial deadlines.  (Ibid.)
 
On September 5, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Brown filed a single Opposition to both Motions.  No reply has been filed.  On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Reply to the Opposition.  The Court did
not receive the Reply prior to the September 18, 2023, hearing on the
Motion.  On September 18, 2023, the Court
continued the hearing on the Motion to further deliberate on the matter of
sanctions.  (9-18-23 Minute Order.)
 
Eli’s filed an Answer to the SACC
on September 5, 2023.
 
II.             
Legal
Standard & Discussion
 
A.    Motion to Compel Deposition
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Eli’s moves to compel the
attendance of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Brown at an oral deposition and the
production of the subject 2017 Porsche 911 Carrera (“Porsche”) for physical and
photographic inspection at the deposition. 
(MTC Dep. p. 2.)  Eli’s also
requests that the Court impose monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,633.80
against Brown and his counsel for their willful failure to appear at the
deposition and produce the tangible item requested.  (Ibid.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(a) provides:
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”
 
The motion shall “(1) set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
On July 20, 2023, Eli’s served
Brown’s counsel with a Notice of Deposition and Demand for Inspection of
Vehicle, setting the deposition and inspection for August 3, 2023, at 1:30
p.m.  (Thomas Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)  On July 21, 2023, Brown’s attorney served the
following three objections to the Notice. 
(Ibid. at, Ex. 2.)  Counsel
objected on the basis that (1) the deposition was set after the discovery
cut-off date, (2) the date of inspection was not at least 30 days after service
of the Demand for Inspection, and (3) the notice failed to provide a reasonable
place of inspection.  (Ibid.)  Eli’s argues that the “objections are
specious and without any colorable legal justification” as the discovery cutoff
date is August 29, 2023, and providing 30-day notice and location of inspection
are not requirements for depositions. 
(MTC Dep. p. 4.)  Eli’s adds that
the attorneys for each party met and conferred telephonically in good faith
regarding the motion and Defendant’s objections on August 16, 2023.  (Thomas Dec.) 
However, the attorneys could not come to an agreement and Defendant
Brown refuses to submit to a deposition or produce the Porsche for
inspection.  (Ibid.)
 
Eli’s argues that it has a right
to depose Defendant and request inspection of tangible things pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2025.010 and has properly served a notice of
deposition.  (MTC Dep. p. 5.)  The inspection was to take place at Eli’s in
Inglewood and the deposition would take place in the conference room.  (Ibid.)  The location was selected due to its
convenience to both parties, special lighting booths for visual and
photographic inspection, and because it was the same location where Defendant Brown
approved the color match for painting of the Porsche.  (Ibid.)  Eli’s has good cause for demanding production
and inspection of the Porsche because it will produce evidence of the matching
paint color for the purpose of trial.  (Ibid.
at pp. 5-6.)  Moreover, Defendant’s
objections are “without any factual or legal justification.”  (Ibid. at p. 6.)
Despite earlier objections, Defendant Brown
does not oppose the Motion.  (Oppos. p.
3.)  However, he expresses concerns that
“Plaintiff would exploit the inspection of the vehicle as an
opportunity to refuse to release the vehicle back to him, and instead claim
that it had the right to retain possession pursuant to a mechanic’s lien.”  (Ibid. at p. 4.)  The concern arises from the demands made in
the Complaint regarding possession of the vehicle.  (Ibid.) 
Defense counsel has offered to produce the vehicle in a police or
sheriff’s department parking lot, or other neutral outdoor location; however,
Plaintiff’s counsel has refused.  (Ibid.)  Defense counsel has also requested a
stipulation to a court order to have the vehicle released immediately after
inspection or after 30 minutes of inspection, however Plaintiff’s counsel has
again refused.  (Ibid. at pp.
4-5.)  Thus, Defendant agrees to the
inspection either at a neutral outdoor location or with the condition that the
vehicle be released after the conclusion of inspection.  (Ibid. at p. 5.)
 
In
its Reply, Eli’s reiterates that Defendant’s objections are specious and
without merit.  (Reply p. 4.)  It again states that the visual inspection
location is critical because it is the same location where Defendant approved
the paint color to be applied to the Porsche and therefore, “is a critical part
of [Plaintiff’s] case.”  (Ibid.)  Defendant has not presented a justifiable
reason and admissible evidence in refusing to submit to the deposition and
producing the vehicle for inspection.  (Ibid.
at pp. 4-5.)
 
On September 18,
2023, the Court found that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure § 2025.450 and is entitled to compel Plaintiff’s
attendance and testimony at deposition.  (9-18-23
Minute Order.)  Plaintiff has also
presented good cause for compelling production of the vehicle for inspection.  (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s Deposition and Production is
GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to appear
at a properly noticed deposition, within thirty (30) days of the Court’s
Order.  Furthermore, the Court imposes
the condition that the vehicle be immediately returned to Defendant after
conclusion of inspection or upon expiration of two (2) hours, whichever occurs
first.
 
B.    
Requests for Production
 
A party must respond to requests for production of
documents within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.260(a).)  If a party to whom requests for production of
documents is directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting party
may move for an order compelling response to the discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(c).)  The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including ones based on privilege or work-product protection.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).)  There is no time limit for a motion to compel
responses to production of documents other than the cut-off on hearing
discovery motions 15 days before trial. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2024.020(a), 2031.300.)  No meet and confer efforts are required
before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.)
 
On August 9, 2022, Plaintiff served Defendant with a
Demand for Inspection and Production of Vehicle, set for September 12, 2022, at
Eli’s repair facility in Inglewood, CA. 
(MTC Prod. - Thomas Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) 
Defendant did not respond or serve an objection to the Demand.  (Ibid. at ¶ 4.)  On September 8, 2022, defense counsel asked
for a three-week extension to respond to the written discovery and to
reschedule the vehicle inspection date. 
(Ibid. at ¶ 5, Ex. 3.)  On
September 12, 2022, the attorneys discussed rescheduling the vehicle inspection
date and agreed to schedule to a mutually convenient date, September 30.  (Ibid. at ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff’s counsel served Defendant with an
amended Demand for Inspection and Production of Vehicle, set for September 30,
2022.  (Ibid. at ¶ 7, Ex. 2.)  On September 27, 2022, defense counsel asked
for an extension to respond to the written discovery, but agreed to keep the
inspection date of September 30, 2022; Plaintiff’s counsel provided a one-week
extension to respond to the written discovery. 
(Ibid. at ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel traveled more than 3.5 hours for the inspection on
September 30, 2022, however, Defendant did not appear with the vehicle.  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 9-10.)  On October 3, 2022, defense counsel explained
that Defendant’s failure to appear was due to a miscommunication between
Defendant and his attorney.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 11.)  On December 9, 2022, the
attorneys met and conferred over the telephone regarding the instant
Motion.  (Ibid. at ¶ 12.)  On December 15, 2022, defense counsel offered
to present the vehicle for inspection on January 10, 2023, thus, Plaintiff
served a Second Amended Demand for Inspection of Vehicle.  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 13-14, Exs. 3-4.)  Despite several extensions, Defendant served
an objection to the Second Amended Demand for Inspection.  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 15-16, Ex. 5.)  Between January 5 and 9, 2023, the attorneys
exchanged several meet and confer emails regarding Defendant’s objection and
insistence that conditions be imposed on the inspection.  (Ibid. at ¶ 17.)  On January 10, 2023, Defendant Brown failed
to present the Porsche for inspection.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 18.)  On August 16, 2023, the
attorneys met and conferred telephonically but did not come to an agreement.  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 19-20.)
 
Plaintiff states that it has a good faith basis for
inspection of the Porsche as “a visual and photographic inspection of the
Porsche at the same place and under the same conditions s when Mr. Brown
approved the color match is of critical importance in this case.”  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 21-22.)
 
Defendant presents the same objections to the instant
Motion as he does to the Motion to Compel Deposition and Production of Vehicle.
 
In its Reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Brown waived
all objections to the production demand and did not present any legal
justification for failure to produce the vehicle for inspection.  (Reply p. 4.) 
Furthermore, Defendant’s arguments regarding his fear that Eli’s would
retain the vehicle are without justification as there is no indication that
Plaintiff would unlawfully seize the Porsche. 
(Ibid. at p. 5.)  The
Complaint states that Plaintiff was seeking a Court order to possess the
vehicle, “not the lawless theft of the Porsche.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff has not agreed to any other
location for the visual inspection, because inspection of the vehicle in the
exact location where Defendant approved the paint color is critical to the
lawsuit.  (Ibid. at pp. 5-6.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that it
propounded a demand for production on Defendant and Defendant has improperly
served objections, after objections had been waived, and has failed to produce
the vehicle for inspection.  Although
Plaintiff was not obligated to meet and confer with Defendant, Plaintiff’s
counsel has extensively attempted to resolve the issue informally.
 
For this reason, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Production of Vehicle for Inspection. 
The vehicle must be produced for inspection at a time and date
determined by Plaintiff.  To address
Defendant’s concerns, the Court imposes the condition that the vehicle be
immediately returned to Defendant after conclusion of inspection or upon
expiration of two (2) hours, whichever occurs first.
 
C.   
Request for Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure §
2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary
sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone because of
that conduct.  Misuse of discovery
includes “failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿2023.010(d)).
 
Furthermore, §§ 2025.450 and 2031.300
authorize the Court to impose monetary sanctions if a party fails to respond to
requests for production or attend a scheduled deposition, unless the Court
finds that the party subject to the sanctions acted with substantial
justification or that the circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust.
 
            Plaintiff requests $3,633.80 in
sanctions for the Motion to Compel Defendant Brown’s Deposition, as follows:
attorney’s fees for five (5) hours for preparing the Motion, three (3) hours
for reviewing the Opposition and preparing a reply, and one (1) hour for
appearing at the hearing, at a discounted hourly rate of $395 per hour, plus
$78.80 in motion filing fees and electronic filing charges.  (Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 16-19.)
 
Plaintiff requests $5,016.30 for the Motion to Compel
Production of Vehicle, as follows: attorney’s fees for 2.5 hours in traveling
to the inspection location, one (1) hour for waiting for Defendant Brown, five
(5) hours for preparing the Motion, three (3) hours for reviewing the
Opposition and preparing a reply, and one (1) hour for appearing at the
hearing, at a discounted hourly rate of $395 per hour, plus $78.80 in motion
filing fees and electronic filing charges. 
(Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 23-27.)
 
Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s requests for monetary
sanctions.
 
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff waited too long to
notice the deposition.  (Oppos. p.
5.)  Trial in the instant case was
originally set for October 11, 2022.  (Ibid.)  Discovery proceedings should have been
completed on or before the 30th day and discovery motions should have been
filed on or before the 15th day before trial, as required by Code of Civil
Procedure §2024.020(a).  (Ibid.)   Thus, the motion cut-off date was on October
11, 2022.  (Ibid. at pp.
5-6.)  The fact that the Court vacated
and postponed the trial date does not alter the discovery deadlines, as
discovery may be reopened via a noticed motion. 
(Ibid. at p. 6.)
 
Second, the deposition did not provide sufficient
statutory notice, as notice was served on July 20, 2023, for an inspection set
for August 3, 2023.  (Ibid. at p.
7.)  Thus, the Notice failed to comply
with Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.030(c)(2), which requires notice to be served as least 30 days
before the inspection date.  (Ibid.)  Although the Court issued an ex parte order
regarding re-opening discovery on September 1, 2023, this order did not exist
at the time the parties met and conferred. 
(Ibid.)  Given that “the
ground has shifted under the Defendant’s feet,” Defendant no longer opposes the
Motions.  (Ibid.)  However, Defendant does request that the
Court does not impose monetary sanctions. 
(Ibid.)
 
In its Reply to Defendant’s opposition to sanctions
imposed for the Motion to Compel Deposition, Plaintiff argues that on September
7, 2023, the Court vacated trial and set a Trial Setting Conference for January
19, 2023.  (MTC Dep. – Reply p. 3.)  Months later, a new trial date of September
28, 2023, was scheduled.  (Ibid.)  On August 30, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to continue the trial date along with related
discovery and motion cut-off dates.  (Ibid.)  Thus, Defendant’s opposition to the sanctions
is legally unsupported and irrelevant.  (Ibid.
at pp. 3-4.)  Moreover, Plaintiff argues
that only a 10-day notice is required when a request for production is made in
a notice of deposition.  (Ibid. at
p. 5.)
 
In its Reply to Defendant’s opposition to sanctions
imposed for the Motion to Compel Production, Plaintiff argues that justice
requires Defendant to reimburse Plaintiff for attorney’s fees incurred in
“wasted travel and waiting time at the inspection site” as Defendant did not
appear after confirming that he would produce the vehicle for inspection.  (MTC Prod. - Reply p. 7.)  Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s conduct “is
part of a larger pattern of deliberate misuse of the discovery process – by
Defense counsel on behalf of Mr. Brown to delay and obstruct discovery.”  (Ibid.)  Accordingly, the Court has a sufficient basis
to grant sanctions for Defendant’s misuse of discovery.  (Ibid. at pp. 7-8.)  Moreover, Defendant has not presented any
facts demonstrating that he acted with substantial justification or that the
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  (Ibid. at pp. 8-9.)
 
Having reviewed the parties’ arguments, the Court makes
the following findings.
Plaintiff has complied with the requirements of the
instant Motions and Defendant does not oppose the Motions.  Moreover, the Court does not find that
Defendant has presented substantial justification or circumstances that would
make the imposition of sanctions unjust.
 
However, the Court does find that Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is excessive.  Accordingly, the
Court grants sanctions as follows.
 
For the Motion to Compel Deposition, the Court grants
sanctions in the amount of $1,263.80 for one (1) hour of preparing the Motion,
one (1) hour of preparing the Reply, and one (1) hour for appearing at the
hearing, at a rate of $395 per hour, plus $78.80 in motion filing fees and
electronic filing charges.
 
For the Motion to Compel Production of Vehicle, the Court
grants sanctions in the amount of $1,263.80 for one (1) hour of preparing the
Motion, one (1) hour of preparing the Reply, and one (1) hour for appearing at
the hearing, at a rate of $395 per hour, plus $78.80 in motion filing fees and
electronic filing charges.  The Court
also grants sanctions in the amount of $500 for Defendant’s failure to produce
the vehicle for inspection at a previously confirmed time and date, for a total
of $1,763.80 in sanctions.
 
III.           
Conclusion & Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Eli’s Collision Repair of
South Bay’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s Deposition and Production of
Vehicle for Inspection.  Defendant is
ordered to appear at a properly noticed deposition, within thirty (30) days of
the Court’s Order.  Furthermore, the
Court imposes the condition that the vehicle be immediately returned to
Defendant after conclusion of inspection or upon expiration of two (2) hours,
whichever occurs first.  The Court also
grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1263.80, to be paid by
Defendant Brown within thirty (30) days of notice of the Court’s Order.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Eli’s Collision Repair of
South Bay’s Motion to Compel Production of Vehicle for Inspection.  The vehicle must be produced for inspection
at a time and date determined by Plaintiff. 
To address Defendant’s concerns, the Court imposes the condition
that the vehicle be immediately returned to Defendant after conclusion of
inspection or upon expiration of two (2) hours, whichever occurs first.  The Court also grants Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1763.80, to be paid by Defendant Brown within
thirty (30) days of notice of the Court’s Order.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.