 Case Number:  20STCV23993    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
1, 2023                 TRIAL
DATE:  April 3, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Edith Cortez v. Christopher Landry
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV23993
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Christopher Landry
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On April 4,
2023, Defendant Christopher Landry filed these motions to compel Plaintiff Edith
Cortez to provide responses to Defendant’s First Set of Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents.  Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff.
                                                     
            The motions
are unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
RESPONSES 
 
            If a party
to whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely serve responses waives objections
to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300,
subd. (a).)    
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
served Plaintiff with these discovery requests on December 28, 2022. However,
to date, Plaintiff has not provided responses.¿ (See Jubelt Decls.)¿
Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and production requests are
waived.¿¿ 
 
            As Defendant
properly served the discovery requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses,
the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing Plaintiff to
provide responses to Defendant’s First set of General Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents.
            
             Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff. 
Given that the Court has granted these motions, sanctions are warranted.
 Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against
Plaintiff in the amount of $584.95, representing 2 hours at defense counsel’s
hourly rate and $184.95 in filing fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
unopposed motions are granted.  Plaintiff
Edith Cortez is ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Defendant’s
First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production of Documents.  
 
            The request
for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $584.95 to Defendant, by and through his
counsel.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 31,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


