 Case Number:  22STCV22372    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
1, 2023                             TRIAL
DATE:  January 8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Latoya Perry v. The Vons Companies, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV22372
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
The Vons Companies, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On July 11, 2022, Plaintiff Latoya Pery filed this action against
Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. for injuries sustained while on Defendant’s
premises.  Plaintiff alleges she tripped
and fell on a wood pallet that collapsed under her.
 
On October 6, 2023, Defendant filed this motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint against proposed Cross-Defendants Mondelez International,
Inc., Mondelez International Holdings, Inc., and Mondelez Global LLC, for breach
of contract, express and implied indemnity, contribution and apportionment, and
declaratory relief.   
 
The motion is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in
a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint asserting any cause
of action against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such
person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in the
cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 428.10, subd. (b)(1).)   
 
A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or
at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (a).)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed
at any time before the court has set a date for trial.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50, subd. (b).)  A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time
during the course of the action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd.
(c).)  A party who fails to plead a cause of action, whether through
oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the
court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert
such cause at any time during the course of the action.  The court, after
notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) 
 
III.       APPLICATION
 
Defendant states proposed Cross-Defendants and Defendants have
an agreement which obligates Cross-Defendants to defend against Plaintiff’s
personal injury claims.  However, after
tendering defense and immunity pursuant to their agreement, Cross-Defendants
have not responded.  As such, Defendant
contends it is in the interests of justice that leave be granted to file a
cross-complaint.  
 
Because the motion is unopposed, the Court finds no
prejudice will result if leave is granted to file a cross-complaint.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The
unopposed motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.  Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc, is ordered
to file the attached proposed cross-complaint within 10 days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 1,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


