  Case Number:  20STCV15846    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  57 Here are proposed voir dire questions that would be posed by the Court:KNOWLEDGE OF PLAYERS  (For the Entire Pool)
1.   
Do
any of you know any of the other prospective jurors who are here in the
courtroom?
2.   
Are
any of you acquainted with the Plaintiffs in this case or think that you have
heard their names before today?  
3.   
Do
any of you know any of the attorneys sitting at counsel table?
4.   
Do
any of you know me, or any member of the court staff that I introduced to you?
5.   
Do
any of you think that you have prior knowledge of any fact involved in this
case? 
6.   
In
addition to the Plaintiffs, whom you have already met, the following individuals
may testify as witnesses in this case. Raise your hand if you think know any of
these potential witnesses. 





 
 
GENERAL BACKGROUND OF JURORS (For the First
18)
Now I would like to ask some general background questions
of the first 18 of you. These questions are on the board. I will ask these
individually of each juror, but I will need you to pay close attention because
each one of you will have to answer the same questions. I will read the
questions for Juror No. 1, and then we will just have the rest of you read the
questions to yourself and then answer out loud.
 
1.    What is your name ?
 
2.    What is your area of residence? [Not street address]
 
3.    What is your current occupation?   If you are retired, what was your occupation
before retirement?
 
4.    What is the occupation of other adults in
your household ?


5.    Have you ever served on a jury before?   If the answer to that question is YES,
please answer the following questions: 
Was your jury service in a criminal or civil case?   Was a verdict reached in the case?  Do not state what the verdict was.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABILITY TO
FOLLOW DIRECTIONS AND BE FAIR AND IMPARTIAL (First 18)
 
1.   
Will you have any difficulty following the law as given
to you by me, even if you disagree with the law? 
 
2.    Will you have any difficulty applying the
same standards to evaluate the testimony of all of the witnesses in this case,
regardless of who they are? 
 
3.   
Will you have any difficulty keeping from discussing the
case with anyone until it is submitted to you for your decision and then only
discuss the case with all other jurors in the jury room? 
 
4.   
A party, attorney, or witness may come from a particular
national, racial, or religious group or may have a lifestyle different from
your own.  Would any of this affect the way you assess the evidence and
testimony? 
 
5.    Each attorney has the right to object to
offered evidence and testimony.  Would you disfavor the attorney or the
side of the case that the attorney represents if the attorney objected to
evidence or testimony? 
 
6.    Each attorney has the right to excuse
prospective jurors without showing cause.  Would you disfavor the attorney
or the side of the case the attorney represents if the attorney excused a
prospective juror? 
 
7.    Do you have any relatives or close friends
who are, or have been, lawyers or whose work involves the legal system? 
 
8.    Have you, or any of your relatives or any of
your close friends, ever been involved in a lawsuit either as a plaintiff,
witness, or defendant? 
 
9.    If you answer to question 8 is yes, do you
feel that you, or the relative or friend were unfairly treated by the legal
system? 
 
10.                  
Have you, or any of your relatives,
or any of your close friends ever been involved in a motor vehicle accident in
which someone suffered an injury to their physical and/or mental health?    For
this question, the term “motor vehicle accident” includes incidents in which a
motor vehicle struck a pedestrian or bicyclist. 

 
11.                  
  If your answer to question 10 is yes, was a
lawsuit filed based on the accident?


12.                  
  If your answer to question 11 is yes,  were you the plaintiff or defendant
in the suit, meaning were you the person who filed the lawsuit or the person
who had defend against the lawsuit?
 
13.                  
Do you have any feelings about this particular case that
would make it difficult for you to be a juror who will be fair to both sides
and be
impartial?