  Case Number:  23SMCV03453    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Baril, et al. v. Le Parc
Homeowners Association, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV03453


Complaint Filed:


7-28-23           




Hearing Date:


12-3-24 


Discovery C/O:


1-6-25




Calendar No.:


14


Discovery Motion C/O:


1-21-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


2-3-25



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Le Parc Homeowners
Association
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs George Baril
and Gail Baril 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Le
Parc Homeowners Association’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendant does
meet their burden to show that one or more elements of the 1st–3rd
causes of action in Plaintiffs George Baril and Gail Baril cannot be met, or
that that a complete defense exists. 
 
            Defendant Le
Parc Homeowners Association’s Objections in the Reply are OVERRULED. 
  
REASONING
            “A party is
entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing
there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to
file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has
carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's
evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion
does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the
opposing papers.” (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020)
49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 [landlord’s failure to address issue of whether
they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds
to grant summary judgment where moving party failed to satisfy its initial
burden as to the issue]; Thatcher v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79
Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot grant summary judgment based merely
on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the moving party has
satisfied its burden].) 
 
            In
addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed
strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read. (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts
as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue of
material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of
the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
 
            Where a
defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one
or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing
that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some
essential element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts
to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary
adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
I.               
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication Plaintiff’s
Claim of Negligence. Cause of Action
 
“It bears repetition that the
basic policy of this state ... is that everyone is responsible for any injury
caused to another by his want of ordinary care or skill in the management of
his property…. The proper test to be applied to the liability of the possessor
of land ... is whether in the management of his property he has acted as a
reasonable (person) in view of the probability of injury to others ....”(Citation
omitted.)  Sprecher
v. Adamson Companies (1981) 30 Cal.3d 358, 371.) 
 
“It must also be emphasized that
the liability imposed is for negligence. The question is whether in the
management of his property, the possessor of land has acted as a reasonable
person under all the circumstances. The likelihood of injury to plaintiff, the
probable seriousness of such injury, the burden of reducing or avoiding the
risk, the location of the land, and the possessor's degree of control over the
risk-creating condition are among the factors to be considered by the trier of
fact in evaluating the reasonableness of a defendant's conduct.” (Id. at 372.)  
 
            “The ‘legal
duty’ of care may be of two general types: (a) the duty of a person to use
ordinary care in activities from which harm might reasonably be anticipated, or
(b) an affirmative duty where the person occupies a particular relationship to
others. In the first situation, he is not liable unless he is actively
careless; in the second, he may be liable for failure to act affirmatively to
prevent harm.” (McGettigan v. Bay Area Rapid Transit Dist. (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 1011, 1016–1017, as modified (Sept. 22, 1997).)  “The proper test to be applied to the
liability of the possessor of land in accordance with [Civil Code section 1714]
is whether in the management of [one's] property [one] has acted as a
reasonable [person] in view of the probability of injury to others.” (Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 672.) This duty is not limited
to one who holds title over the land ‘but, rather, [is] owed by the person in
possession of the land ... because [of the possessor's] supervisory control
over the activities conducted upon, and the condition of, the land.’” (Alcaraz
v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1157–1158.)  To comply with this duty, the possessor of
land must “inspect [the premises] or take other proper means to ascertain their
condition and, if a dangerous condition exists that would have been discovered
by the exercise of reasonable care, has a duty to give adequate warning of or
remedy it.” (Staats v. Vintner's Golf Club, LLC (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th
826, 833.)
 
In considering a defendant’s
motion for summary judgment the California Supreme Court explained “‘even when
there is no dispute as to the facts, it usually is for the jury to decide
whether the conduct in question meets the reasonable man standard ....”(Citation.)
‘In short, negligence is a (triable issue) of fact if different conclusions can
be rationally drawn from the evidence.’ (Citation.) Moreover, ‘doubts as to the
propriety of granting the motion should be resolved in favor of the party
opposing the motion.” (Citation.) (Sprecher, supra, at 372.) 
 
Finally, “[t]he rule that a trial
court must liberally construe the evidence submitted in opposition to a summary
judgment motion applies in ruling on both the admissibility of expert testimony
and its sufficiency to create a triable issue of fact. (Citation.) In light of the
rule of liberal construction, a reasoned explanation required in an expert
declaration filed in opposition to a summary judgment motion need not be as
detailed or extensive as that required in expert testimony presented in support
of a summary judgment motion or at trial.” (Garrett v. Howmedica Osteonics
Corp. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 173, 189.) 
 
            Here, Defendant
Le Parc Homeowners Association (“Le Parc”) shows that it is undisputed that (1)
at the time of the alleged incident Juan Urbano (“Urbano”) was an employee of
Le Parc’s independent contractor, Vertical Gate Systems dba Gatesman
(“Gatesman”). (SSUF, ¶¶ 1; Harwell Decl., ¶¶ 3–4, 7–8, Ex. B, C, F, G);
and  (2) Urbano laid the extension cord
on the public sidewalk outside of Le Parc’s property approximately forty-nine
seconds before the incident occurred. (SSUF, ¶¶ 2–4; Harwell Decl., ¶¶ 7–11,
Ex. F–I.)
 
            Le Parc argues
Plaintiff George Baril’s (“Mr. Baril”) negligence claim fails as a matter of
law because (1) Le Parc owed no duty to protect Plaintiff George Baril from
being injured on a public sidewalk/property, (2) Le Park did not create the
peril, and (3) Le Parc’s prior conduct does not create a duty. (Motion, pp. 13–16.)
         Le Parc argues they did not
create the peril because the incident did not occur on Le Parc’s property, the
incident was not the result of any action or involvement by any Le Parc agent
of employee, and there is no evidence that Le Parc affirmatively engaged in any
particular activity that could reasonably lead to harm. (SSUF, ¶¶ 1–12.)
Le Parc also argues even though Le Parc placed cones around the Gatesman work
area the day prior to the incident, that alone would not create a duty to place
cones around the work area the second day, since Le Parc did not have time to
notice the potential tripping hazard within the forty-nine second window of Urbano
laying the cord and Mr. Baril tripping over the cord on that second day—essentially,
Le Parc placed the cones around the work area the first day only after they
noticed the cord was laid out, consistent with Le Parc’s policy. (SSUF, ¶¶ 1,
4, 9–11.) Le Parc argues that it was Urbano’s responsibility to request cones,
or wait until the cones were placed around the work area, prior to the
beginning of work, which Urbano failed to do, and Le Parc did not have the
obligation to place cones on public sidewalk. (See Harwell Decl., Ex. L –
Urbano Depo., p. 39:4–9.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that Le Parc owed a
duty of care to Mr. Baril even though the cord was placed on an adjacent
sidewalk not owned by Le Parc because the sidewalk area was an adjoining strip
of land used to enter Le Parc’s property similar to the circumstances in Alcaraz
v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal. 4th 1149. Ordinarily, “A defendant cannot be held
liable for the defective or dangerous condition of property which it [does] not
own, possess or control.” (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985)
38 Cal. 3d 112, 134.) However, Plaintiffs show Le Parc had control over the
adjacent sidewalk; and therefore, Le Parc had a duty to protect or warn others
entering Le Parc while utilizing the adjacent sidewalk. 
 
In Alcaraz, the Plaintiff there
“was injured when he stepped onto water meter box” with a broken or missing
cover, “located in the lawn in front of the rental property of which [Plaintiff]
was a tenant.” (Id., at pp. 1240–1241.) Plaintiff sued his landlords,
but the Superior Court granted summary judgment for defendants because the
meter box was not located on defendants’ property, but within an adjacent strip
of land owned by the city, running between the sidewalk and defendants’
property line. (Id., at p. 1241.) The Court of Appeal reversed and the
Supreme Court of California affirmed the Court of Appeal’s reversal, holding “that
a triable issue of fact exists as to whether defendants exercised control over
the narrow strip of land owned by the city, that was located adjacent to, and
was not noticeably separate from, defendants' property, and thus had a
duty to warn plaintiff of, or protect him from, the hazard in question.” (Ibid.)  The Alcaraz Court
found that “[t]he proper test to be applied to the liability of the possessor
of land ... is whether in the management of his property he has acted as a
reasonable man in view of the probability of injury to others.... This requires
persons “to maintain land in their possession and control in a reasonably safe
condition.” (Id., at p. 1156, citing Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 119.)
 
Similar to Alcaraz, Le Parc
had notice of the hazard on the adjacent sidewalk because the day prior to the
incident Urbano was working on the incident area, Le Parc put cones around the
area to designate a possibly dangerous work zone, and Le Parc was notified that
Urbano would be back the next day to conduct the same work. Plaintiffs argue
that the next day, the day of the incident, Urbano “announced himself to Le
Parc guards, who notified Mr. Santosuosso [Le Parc’s chief engineer] of
Urbano's presence through the time of Mr. Baril's fall.” (SSUF, ¶¶ 7, 10–11; Donell
Decl., ¶¶ 11–12; Rabineau Decl., ¶¶ 2–4; Urbano Depo., pp. 14:15-17, 25:16-25,
26:1-4, 26:15-18, 27:14-18, 30;19-25, 39:10-15, 43;17-20, 46;4-14, 14-16,
57:12- 21; Santosuosso Depo., pp. 14:18-19, 16:8-13, Ex. 1; Cocheo Depo., pp.
15;18-25, 16:1, 35:16-21, 40:11-14.)
 
Le Parc also argues that notice was
not effected on the day of the incident because the incident occurred under a
minute from when the cord was laid on the public sidewalk.  Plaintiff, however, shows there are disputed
facts that Le Parc was on notice through Urbano’s statements made the day prior,
and through Urbano announcing himself to Le Parc staff on the incident day.
(SSUF, ¶¶ 7, 10–11.) 
 
Further, Le Parc provides no
authority that their HOA policy standards for placing caution cones only after
noticing a dangerous condition supersedes any objective duty of care. Under Alcaraz,
the test for whether Le Parc owed a duty to Mr. Baril is not a subjective one,
but instead an objective reasonable person standard. (See Alcaraz, supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 1156 [“whether in the management of [Le Parc’s]
property he has acted as a reasonable man in view of the probability of injury
to others.... This requires persons “to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition”].) Thus, whether Le Parc followed their
own HOA policies does not define the scope of Le Parc’s duty.  At best, is one factor examined when deciding
whether Le Parc breached its duty of care. 
 
Plaintiff provides evidence that Le
Parc had control over the cord, or the dangerous condition, and the adjacent
sidewalk where the incident took place, through deposition testimony from
Urbano, and various Le Parc employees that Le Parc instructed Urbano to move
the cord from the sidewalk to the top of the yellow fence after the incident. (Oppo.,
p. 7; SSUF, ¶¶ 7, 10–11.) As Plaintiffs point out, under Alcaraz, this type of
evidence cannot be brought in to prove negligence as a subsequent remedial
measure, however, the evidence can be utilized to show whether Le Parc exercised
control over the adjacent property. (See Alcaraz, supra 14 Cal.4th at p. 1170.
[“evidence establishing that defendants constructed the fence after plaintiff
was injured would not be admissible at trial to prove that defendants were negligent
but would be admissible to demonstrate that defendants exercised control over
the premises. Accordingly, we may consider such evidence in determining whether
a triable issue of material fact existed concerning whether defendants
exercised control over the strip of land and thus owed a duty of care to
plaintiff”].) The Court finds Plaintiff provides disputed material facts regarding
Le Parc’s control over the adjacent property and the cord that caused the
incident.  (See e.g. Judicial Council Of California Civil Jury Instruction Nos. 1002 (Extent of Control Over Premises Area), 1003
(Unsafe Conditions.), 1007 (Sidewalk Abutting Property.)
 
Le Parc argues there is no causal
link between actions of Le Parc and Mr. Baril’s injury first by stating “Plaintiffs
cannot submit any evidence that Le Parc is the proximate cause of Mr. Baril’s
claimed injuries.” (SSUF, ¶¶ 1–4.) However, “pointing out the absence of
evidence to support a plaintiff's claim is insufficient to meet the moving
defendant's initial burden of production. The defendant must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891; see Zoran
Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 808 [“It was not enough simply to
assert that [Plaintiff] had no evidence supporting an element of each cause of
action; a moving defendant “must indeed present ‘evidence,’ ” such as “
‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken”].) 
 
Finally, Le Parc argues that that
Le Parc did not employ Urbano, Urbano was a independent contractor, and there
is no causation between Le Parc the injury because a non-employee, Urbano, was
the cause of the injury. (Motion, pp. 16–17.) Further, without citation to any
authority, Le Parc argues that since Urbano was not an employee, Le Parc had no
obligation to supervise Urbano. The Court is not persuaded. The fact that
Urbano was not an employee of Le Parc does not define Le Parc’s duty or its
liability for injuries caused by its own negligence in failing 
 Based on the evidence presented,
the Court is not persuaded that Le Parc did not have any duty to use reasonable care to protect Plaintiff from the danger arising from Urbano’s work on defendants' property, including the danger arising from Urbano's  placment of a power cord on the public sidewalk directly accross the path to the gated entry to the Defendants property. Thus, Le
Parc does not meet their burden to show “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action” as to the negligence cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(o)(2).)  
            
II.            
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s
claims of Negligent Hiring and Supervision. 


Le Parc argues Plaintiffs negligent
retention, supervision and hiring cause of action lacks merit because Le Parc
is not liable for negligence of Urbano, an independent contractor. It is
undisputed that Gatesman is a third-party vendor that was hired by the HOA to
repair the gate systems at Le Parc, install fencing, and repair all fencing
around the property. (SSUF, ¶ 6.) It is undisputed that Urbano is an employe of
Gatesman who was completing the contracted work at the time of incident. (SSUF,
¶¶ 1, 8, 9.)  Le Parc cites to Fonseca
v. County of Orange (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 361 for the proposition that, “[t]he
employer of an independent contractor is ordinarily not liable to third parties
for the contractor's negligence.” (Fonseca, supra, 28
Cal.App.3d at p. 365.) However, Le Parc omits the sentence immediately
following this quote which states, “[h]owever, the general rule is subject to
exceptions of such magnitude as to leave only a small area in which the general
rule operates. [citations] In fact, the exceptions have almost emasculated the
general rule.” (Ibid.) Fonseca further states that there is an
exception to the general rule granting immunity to independent contractors
which provides:
 
One who employs an independent
contractor to do work which the employer should recognize as likely to create
during its progress a peculiar risk of physical harm to others unless
special precautions are taken, is subject to liability for physical harm caused
to them by the failure of the contractor to exercise reasonable care to take
such precautions, even though the employer has provided for such precautions in
the contract or otherwise.
 
(Ibid.)


            Le Parc
does not provide any authority or evidence that Gatesman’s work via Urbano was
not of a peculiar risk of physical harm to others unless special precautions
were taken. In fact, the evidence shows that on the date prior, Le Parc’s
employees placed cones around Urbano’s work area thus showing Le Parc thought
the work constituted a situation that warranted a warning to the public of a peculiar
risk.  Le Parc citers to Hill Brothers
Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (2004) 123 Cal. App. 4th 1001 for the
proposition that the only exception to the general rule is when independent
contractors are involved in a motor vehicle accident on a public highway and
the employer is also a for-hire carrier. However, this argument is completely
without merit and even negated within the same case cited by Le Parc. The
overall rule as stated in Hill Brothers Chemical Co. is “an individual
or corporation undertakes to carry on an activity involving possible danger to
the public under a license or franchise granted by public authority subject to
certain obligations or liabilities imposed by the public authority, these
liabilities may not be evaded by delegating performance to an independent
contractor. The original contractor remains subject to liability for harm
caused by the negligence of the independent contractor employed to do the
work.” (Hill Brothers Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1001, 1008.) The issue in Hill Brothers Chemical Co involved
a highway accident, and thus is distinguishable from the situation at hand,
plus is one of many exceptions to the general rule that an employer of an
independent contractor is not liable to third parties for the contractors
negligence. 
 
            Le Parc
argues that Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence that Le Parc negligently
retained, supervised or hired John Burton, the HOA’s general manager at the
time of incident. Again, this argument will not satisfy Le Parc’s burden on
summary judgment. (See Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891 [“pointing
out the absence of evidence to support a plaintiff's claim is insufficient to
meet the moving defendant's initial burden of production. The defendant must
also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to
support his or her claim”].)
 
            Thus, Le
Parc has not met their burden to show that one or more elements of the
negligent supervision, hiring and retention cause of action cannot be met, or a
that there is a defense thereto. The Court need not analyze whether Plaintiff’s
have met their burden to show a triable issue of material fact.             Le
Parc’s motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims for negligent
hiring, supervision and retention are DENIED. 
 
III.          
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of
Plaintiff’s claim for Loss of Consortium. 
 
Le Parc does not meet their burden
to show that one or more elements of Plaintiff’s Loss of Consortium cause of
action cannot be met, or a defense thereto, because Le Parc bases their argument
for this cause of action on a successful summary judgment motion as to the
negligence causes of action. Le Parc offers no evidence, declarations, or
authority to meet their burden, and thus Le Parc’s motion for summary adjudication
of the claim for loss of consortium is DENIED. 