 Case Number:  24NWCV01595    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  C PIP 4221 BANDINI,
LLC v. SCREAMLINE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
CASE NO.: 24NWCV01595
HEARING:  07/18/24
 
ADD ON 
 
Defendant SCREAMLINE INVESTMENT CORPORATION’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’
Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant is ORDERED to Answer within 5
days. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This unlawful detainer action involves commercial real
property located at 4221 Bandini Blvd., Vernon, CA 90058 by Plaintiffs PIP 4221
BANDINI, LLC; and CLINE B INDUSTRIAL HOLDINGS (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
against Defendants SCREAMLINE INVESTMENT CORPORATION (“Screamline”); ADW, INC.;
AUL PIPE & TUBING, INC.; and DOES 1 through 10 (collectively
“Defendants”)  on May 22, 2024. 
 
Defendant Screamline specially and generally demurs to the
sole cause of action of unlawful detainer.  
 
As to the Entire Complaint – Uncertainty 
 
Screamline argues that the pleading is fatally uncertain. This
argument lacks merit because “[a] special demurrer for uncertainty is not
intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading
but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.”
(Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover,
demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and will only be sustained where the
pleading is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or
she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of
Calif. Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
Here, it is clear from Screamline’s other arguments that they understand what Plaintiffs
at least attempt to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The demurrer is
not sustained on the basis of uncertainty.
 
Unlawful Detainer
 
Screamline generally demurs on the following grounds: the 10
day period following service of the Notice as set forth in the Lease did not
elapse before Plaintiffs filed this action; no breach of lease is properly
alleged; and Plaintiffs impermissibly seek to recover amounts for alleged
unpaid rent for more than one year prior to the filing of the complaint. 
 
“[T]he basic elements of unlawful detainer for nonpayment of
rent contained in CCP §1161(2) are: (1) the tenant is in possession of the
premises; (2) that possession is without permission; (3) the
tenant is in default for nonpayment of rent; (4)
the tenant has been properly served with a written three-day notice; and (5)
the default continues after the three-day notice period has elapsed.”  (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
Supp. 10, 16.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege the following facts: “Defendants failed
and refused to make all the payments of rent due under the Lease.” (Complaint
¶12.) “On May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs duly and lawfully served a Notice to Pay
Rent or Quit – Commercial Premises (the ‘Notice’) on Defendants in accordance
with the provisions of the Lease and California law by delivery to the
Premises, and handing a copy of the Notice to Gwen Slaughter for Tenants,
handing a copy to Darlene Alvarado for ADW, and handing a copy to Sonia Marcias
for AUL, each of whom was the person apparently in charge of the portion of the
Premises occupied by the respective entities, and also by posting a copy of the
Notice at the Premises that same day for all three Defendants, and by sending a
copy of the Notice to Defendants that same day via U.S. Mail, First Class
Postage prepaid…. In addition, a copy of the Notice was emailed to Tenants’
principal Noonoosh Sapir, on May 16, 2024 in conformity with the provisions of
the Lease. The Notice required Defendants to pay the sum of $129,087.97, the
amount of Rent outstanding under the Lease for the past one year period through
March 31, 2024 or quit the Premises within three (3) business days after
service of the Notice. The Notice further set forth Plaintiffs’ election to
declare a forfeiture of the Lease.” (Id. ¶13.) “More than three (3) business
days have elapsed since the service of the Notice and there was no lawful
tender of the amount set forth in the Notice. Defendants are still in the
possession of the Premises.” (Id. ¶14.) Consequently, this action was filed on
May 22, 2024. 
 
Here, the Complaint sufficiently alleges the elements of
unlawful detainer: 1) Defendant is in possession of the premises (¶14), 2) possession is without
permission (¶13), 3) the tenant
is in default for nonpayment of rent (¶12),
4) the tenant has been properly served with a written three-day notice (¶12), and 5) the default continues
after the three-day notice period has elapsed (¶14).  The demurrer is
OVERRULED. Screamline’s arguments raise
factual issues inappropriately resolved at this stage in the litigation. 