 Case Number:  23NWCV00846    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  C DOE v. MAHMOUD
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00846 
HEARING:  07/18/24
 
#2
 
     I.       
Defendant ABC SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED
in part without leave to amend. 
 
    II.       
Defendant ABC SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT.
Although a Motion to Strike was RESERVED, no Motion to Strike has been
filed/lodged with the Court.  
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiff JOHN DOE,
a Minor by and through his GAL, J.M.; J.M., an individual; and T.M., an
individual (collectively “Plaintiffs”) on March 17, 2023. 
 
On October 23, 2023, the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The FAC alleges that “[o]n March 11, 2022, JOHN DOE was
sitting in the classroom for his 4th period class at CHS when Defendants JD, JM
and ZM entered the classroom (in which they did not have a class at that time)
without permission, rushed over to his desk, and all three started punching
John Doe repeatedly, in the head, face, and neck. JOHN DOE got up to attempt to
defend himself and ward off the attackers. One of the students also shoved JOHN
DOE onto a student desk. At least one of the attackers was on suspension from
ABCUSD as a result of a different fight on the day before, and was allowed entry
to the school by a classmate (believed to be one of the other attackers)
through an unattended/unsecured emergency door at CHS that was not properly
secured. Each student is believed to have a history of violence and/or serious
behavioral problems.” (FAC ¶18.) “The classroom teacher, school security and
other adult personnel did not prevent or intervene in the attack. The attack
was recorded by some students on their phones. The attack was ultimately
dispersed by some other students, and the attackers left. The attackers… were
later identified and cited by police for various charged, believed to include
trespass, assault, and battery.” (FAC ¶19.) “John Doe suffered a concussion,
multiple contusions to his head, ear, and eye, and injury in the lower back of
his neck, injury in the arm/shoulder, pain in lower and middle back,
cuts/scrapes on the inside cheek and swollen/cut lip. His clothes and
prescription glasses were also damaged. As a result of the attack, John Doe was
too fearful for his safety to return to school and had to complete his courses
outside the regular curriculum and classes. He suffered and continues to suffer
emotional distress and trauma from the accident.” (FAC ¶20.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
1.   
Negligence;
2.   
Negligent Hiring Training, and Supervision; 
3.   
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
4.   
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
5.   
Battery; 
6.   
Parental Liability for Willful Misconduct by
Minor Pursuant to Ed. Code §48904
7.   
Parental Liability for Willful Misconduct by
Minor Pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code §1714.1
 
Defendant ABC SCHOOL DISTRICT (“ABC”) generally demurs to
the first, second, and third causes of action, arguing that these claims are
not pled with particularity.  
 
First Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
Under the statutory scheme in
California, all government tort liability must be based on statute. (Gov. Code
§815.) Accordingly, public entities may be liable only if a statute declares
them to be liable. (Cochran v. Herzog Engraving Co. (1984) 155
Cal.App.3d 405, 409.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that ABC
owes a duty under Gov. Code §§815.2; 815.4; 815.6; and 820. (FAC ¶37.)
 
Gov. Code §815.2 states: “(a) A public entity is liable for
injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public
entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart
from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee
or his personal representative. (b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a
public entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of
an employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.” 
 
Gov. Code §815.4 states that “[a] public entity is liable
for injury proximately caused by a tortious act or omission of an independent
contractor of the public entity to the same extent that the public entity would
be subject to such liability if it were a private person.” 
 
There are three elements to establish public entity
liability under Section 815.6: (1) a mandatory duty was imposed on the public
entity by an enactment; (2) the enactment was designed to protect against the
particular kind of injury suffered; and (3) the breach of the mandatory
statutory duty proximately caused the injury.” (B.H. v. County of San Bernardino
(2015) 62 Cal.4th 168, 179.) 
 
Gov. Code §820 states: “(a)
Except as otherwise provided by statute… a public employee is liable for injury
caused by his act or omission to the same extent as a private person. (b) The
liability of a public employee established by this part… is subject to any
defenses that would be available to the public employee if he were a private
person.” 
 
§815.6  and §820 do not apply to ABC as a public
entity. Gov. Code §815.6 requires that a mandatory duty be alleged. Here, no
mandatory duty imposed by statute is specifically alleged. Gov. Code §820 deals
with an individual employees’ liability—not the employer district. §820 does
not impose any duty to supervise. It makes a public employee liable for an
injury to the same extent as a private person.
 
§§815.2 and 815.4 make ABC vicariously liable for the act of
an employee/independent contractor only if the employee/independent contractor,
while acting within the scope of employment would be liable for the injury to
Plaintiff. ABC’s liability, therefore, depends on its allegedly negligent
supervision of the minor defendants on the date of the Subject Incident, and/or
knowledge of any alleged bullying that occurred prior to the date of the
Subject Incident. 
 
“The law regarding the duty of
supervision on school premises is very, very well established. It is the duty
of the school authorities to supervise at all times the conduct of the children
on the school grounds and to enforce those rules and regulations necessary to
their protection. The school district is liable for injuries which result from
a failure of its officers and employees to use ordinary care in this respect.”
[Citations Omitted.]  (J.H. v. Los
Angeles Unified School Dist. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 123, 139.) “Ample case
authority establishes that school personnel owe students under their
supervision a protective duty of ordinary care, for breach of which the school
district may be held vicariously liable.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 865.) “Students are not at risk
merely because they are at school, and schools, including school restrooms, are
not dangerous places per se. [Citation Omitted.] Foreseeability is determined
in light of all the circumstances and does not require prior identical events
or injuries. [Citation Omitted.] It is not necessary to prove that the very
injury which occurred must have been foreseeable by the school
authorities…Their negligence is established if a reasonably prudent person
would foresee that injuries of the same general type would be likely to happen
in the absence of [adequate] safeguards…... Further, the issue of ‘foreseeability’
does not depend upon the foreseeability of a particular third party’s act, but
instead focuses on whether the allegedly negligent conduct at issue created a
foreseeable risk of a particular kind of
harm.” [Citations Omitted] (M.W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist.
(2003) 110 Cal. App.4th 508, 518-519.) 
 
Here, the FAC alleges that John Doe was a student at the
school, lawfully on the school premises, when he was attacked by 3 other
students. (FAC ¶18.) The FAC further alleges that various school teachers,
security, and other school personnel we present and failed to protect him. (FAC
¶19.) The FAC also alleges that ABC failed in its duty to provide a safe and
secure learning environment for Plaintiff. The FAC, read liberally,
demonstrates that ABC’s employees were acting in the scope of their employment
and failed to protect Plaintiff as a student at the school. 
 
For pleading purposes, the factual allegations are
sufficiently pled to establish ABC’s statutory liability under Gov. Code
§§815.2 and 815.4. ABC’s arguments with respect to these statutory claims raise
factual determinations improperly resolved via this procedural vehicle.
 
Therefore, although Plaintiff cites to various inapplicable Government
Code sections, demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action. “A
demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)   
 
Given the Court’s ruling with respect to the viability of
Plaintiff’s §§815.2 and 815.4 claims, the demurrer to the first cause of action
is OVERRULED. 
 
Second Cause of action – Negligent Hiring, Training, and
Supervision 
 
“An employer may be liable to a third person for the
employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or
unfit.” (Federico v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
1207, 1213.) “[A]n employer’s duty…is breached only when the employer knows, or
should know, facts which would warn a reasonable person that the employee
presents an undue risk of harm to third persons in light of the particular work
to be performed.” (Id. at 1213.) 
 
These facts are not alleged. Plaintiff has not sufficiently
pled claims for Negligent Hiring or Negligent Training.  
 
However, as discussed above with respect to the first cause
of action, Plaintiff has adequately alleged a claim for Negligent Supervision.  Because this portion of the second cause of
action is sufficiently alleged, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action – NIED 
 
The elements for a claim of negligent infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) Defendant engaged in negligent conduct; (2)
Plaintiff suffered serious emotional distress; and (3) Defendant’s conduct was
a cause of the serious emotional distress. (CACI No. 1620.) 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not
address this cause of action. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.  
 
 