 Case Number:  22NWCV01253    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  C PEHRSSON v. DOE SCHOOL
DISTRICT 
CASE
NO.:   22NWCV01253
HEARING:  07/18/24
 
#5
 
Defendant
EAST WHITTIER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
Alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Thursday,
October 17, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  
 
Opposing
Party to give notice. 
 
This
action was filed by Plaintiff JOHN PEHRSSON (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant
EAST WHITTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (“Defendant”) on November 8, 2022. 
 
On
December 5, 2022, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 6, 2024. 
 
Timeliness

 
On
April 11, 2024, Defendant filed the subject Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication (“Motion”). The Proof of Service filed in conjunction
with the Moving Papers indicates that the Motion was served by personal service
and electronic service on April 11, 2024. The Notice of Motion indicates that
the hearing on this Motion was originally scheduled for June 25, 2024. On June
20, 2024, Defendant continued the hearing on this Motion to July 16, 2024. On
June 21, 2024, this Court continued the hearing on the Motion once more to July
18, 2024. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Motion must be denied on procedural
grounds as it was not brought on sufficient notice. Plaintiff argues that the
Motion was improperly electronically served on the last day that the Motion
could be personally served. (Drake Decl., ¶3., Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s Counsel
further maintains that on April 11, 2024 (the last day to personally serve the
Motion) Plaintiff’s Counsel was only hand-served with the “Evidence and Exhibit
List in Support of the Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication by East Whitter City School District.” (Drake Decl., ¶4.)
Plaintiff’s Counsel contends that she was not personally served with the Notice
of Motion, Motion, Memorandum of Points and Authorities, and Sepeparte
Statement. (Id.) 
 
CCP
§437c(a)(2) requires that a motion for summary judgment be brought on 75 days’
notice: “Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for the
hearing.” (Id.) The 75 day notice requirement is increased by two court days if
service is by e-mail. (CCP §1010.6(a)(3).) 
 
Here,
the Court finds that the Motion was untimely electronically served by two days.

 
However,
the separate Proofs of Service attached to the following documents: Notice of
Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Separate Statement; and Evidence and Exhibit
List, are all signed under penalty of perjury by Heather A. Kee, and state that
all Moving Papers were served by personal service and electronic service on
April 11, 2024. Based on the evidence presented, the Court finds that the
Motion was timely served by personal service 75 days prior to the noticed
hearing date. 
 
The
Motion is not untimely. 
 
CCP
§437c(h)
 
Plaintiff
additionally argues in Opposition that there is good cause for a continuance
because additional discovery is needed to oppose the Motion. (Drake Decl., ¶¶5,
11-14, Ex. B.)  
 
“If
it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court
shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained
or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application
to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex
parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition response to the
motion is due.” (CCP §437c(h).) 
 
The subject
Motion is potentially dispositive against the moving party.  Counsel for Plaintiff states that on June 3,
2024, during the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, Plaintiff learned the names of
additional teachers, faculty, and administrators who may have knowledge about
perpetrator Jim Wiggins’s misconduct and assaults on Plaintiff. (Drake Decl.,
¶¶ 12-14.) The Court finds that the information to be derived from the
outstanding discovery is important to Plaintiff’s Opposition. In the interests
of justice, and in favor of adjudicating this matter on the merits, the Motion
is CONTINUED as indicated above. 
 
A
Supplemental Opposition and Supplemental Reply may be filed and served per Code
in accordance with the new hearing date. 
 