 Case Number:  23NWCV04034    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  C BHAMBA v. DOORDASH, INC. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV04034 
HEARING:  07/18/24
 
#8
 
Defendant DOORDASH, INC.’s unopposed motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED
as to Plaintiff and DOORDASH, INC. The entire action is STAYED until conclusion of the
arbitration. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
No Opposition filed as of July 15, 2024. 
 
This action for assault and battery was filed by Plaintiff MANISH BHAMBA
against Defendants DOORDASH, INC. (“Doordash”) and TRAMELLE LALMORE WILLIAMS
(“Williams”) on December 11, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about December 13, 2021, Defendant
WILLIAMS assaulted and battered Plaintiff BHAMBA while Defendant WILLIAMS was
in the scope and course of employment with Defendant DOORDASH.” (Complaint ¶8.)
“The assault and battery occurred outside of the Red Robin restaurant located
at 112 Lakewood Center, Lakewood, California, 90712.” (Complaint ¶9.)
“Plaintiff Bhamba was also at the Red Robin restaurant to pick up a DoorDash
order.” (Complaint ¶11.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Assault and Battery; 
(2)
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Training; and 
(3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
All three claims are alleged against each defendant. 
 
Defendant Doordash moves to compel arbitration pursuant to a written
agreement to arbitrate between Doordash and Plaintiff.  
 
Except for specifically
enumerated exceptions, the court must order the petitioner and respondent to
arbitrate a controversy if the court finds that a written agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. (See CCP §1281.2.) “In California, [g]eneral
principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding
agreement to arbitrate.” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 416, 420.) “A petition to compel arbitration or stay proceedings
pursuant to CCP §§1281.1 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (C.R.C. Rule 3.1330.) 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination. (Engalia v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951.) 
 
The Court finds that Doordash has met the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Doordash. The Updated
Independent Contractor Agreement states: “CONTRACTOR and DOORDASH mutually
agree to this Mutual Arbitration Provision… and shall apply to any and all
disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement….Any disputes in this
regard shall be resolved exclusively by an arbitrator.” (Nachazel Decl., ¶14,
Ex. C.) 
 
As of July
15, 2024, no Opposition has been filed. The Court finds that a valid
arbitration agreement exists, and because there is no Opposition, the motion to compel arbitration
between Plaintiff and Doordash is GRANTED. 
 
Pursuant to CCP §1281.2(c) and (d): “[T]he court (1) may refuse to
enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all
parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or
joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or
special proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or
(4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special
proceeding…” when “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (emphasis
added.) 
 
Accordingly, the Court will GRANT the Motion, and order
arbitration of the dispute as to the Plaintiff and Defendant Doordash only.
However, the entire case will be STAYED until conclusion of the arbitration.  
 