 Case Number:  23CMCV01414    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01414 Damien Hall, Joanne Hall v. Shevy
 Akason, et al.
Thursday,
 January 25, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING
IN PART AND SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER BY DEFENDANT, DIAMOND CONSTRUCTION & WATERPROOFING,
 TO VERIFIED COMPLAINT
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The complaint alleges that Defendants
conspired to sell to Plaintiffs real property in the City of Compton that was advertised
as a recently renovated and fully permitted duplex. Prior to close of escrow,
the City of Compton allegedly cited the property for numerous code violations,
including the lack of a duplex permit. Plaintiffs allege seven causes of action
for fraud and fraud-related claims, negligence, and unfair business practices.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant, Diamond Construction &
Waterproofing, Inc. (“Diamond”), demurs to all claims alleged against it on
grounds of uncertainty since there is no alleged relationship between Diamond
and Plaintiff. The fraud claims are not well stated since Plaintiffs do not
allege that Diamond made any misrepresentations. 
      In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Diamond is equally as liable as other defendants since they all engaged in a
conspiracy to fraudulently sell the property to Plaintiffs without disclosing
the defects. The demurrer is a disguised motion for summary judgment. Any
material factual disputes are not at issue at the demurrer stage. 
      In reply, Diamond argues that it was
employed by the Seller, DB Residential LLC, to perform certain repairs and work
at the property. Diamond did not have any communications or relationship with
Plaintiffs, did not make any representations, and was not a party to the real
estate transaction at issue. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      The
bases for demurrer are limited by statute and may be sustained for reasons
including failure to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
uncertainty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) A demurrer “tests the sufficiency
of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)
The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.) 
III.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Alleged facts
      Plaintiffs allege they signed a
Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“RPA”) for
purchase of real property from DB Residential, LLC (“Seller”), an entity allegedly
managed by Paul Downer (“Downer”), who signed the RPA on Seller’s behalf. (Complaint,
¶¶ 29, 33-35.) While obtaining permits to repair the roof, Plaintiffs contend
they learned about a Pre-Sale Inspection Correction List #1 report and a Correction
Notice issued by the City of Compton that Plaintiffs never received prior to
the sale. (Complaint, ¶ 86) 
      Plaintiffs allege that Diamond, among
other defendants, paid for the inspection report. (Complaint, ¶ 60.) Diamond
was the contractor on the property’s permit history immediately before
Plaintiffs bought the property and denies any responsibility for the “shoddy”
repairs or deficiencies identified in the (Complaint, ¶¶ 95-97.) Plaintiffs
allege that in an effort to save costs, and at the direction of Downer, Diamond
failed to comply with its legal obligation to update and repair the property to
meet statutory requirements. (Complaint ¶¶ 98, 252, 254.) 
      Plaintiffs paid for a second Inspection
Correction Report #2 to determine whether the repairs were completed.
(Complaint ¶ 102-104.). The Second Report revealed numerous defects in the
property. (Complaint ¶ 106. 
      As to Diamond specifically, Plaintiffs
allege claims for (2nd) fraud; (3) fraudulent concealment; (4th) negligent
misrepresentation; (5th) professional negligence; and (7th)
unfair business practices. 
A.     
The claims for fraud and negligent
misrepresentation are not adequately alleged.
      A claim for fraud requires facts to
support the following elements: (1) a misrepresentation, (2) made with
knowledge of its falsity, (3) defendant intended to defraud plaintiff, i.e.,
induce (4) Plaintiff justifiably relied on the misrepresentation, (5) causing
damage. (Nagy
v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1262, 1268.)
      A
claim for negligent misrepresentation requires the same elements except that
the misrepresentation is made without reasonable grounds for believing it to be
true. (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196.) As
in negligence, “the responsibility for negligent misrepresentation rests upon
the existence of a legal duty, imposed by contract, statute or otherwise, owed
by a defendant to the injured person. [Citation.] The determination of whether
a duty exists is primarily a question of law.” (Bock
v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 215, 228.)
      The alleged deceit was allegedly made by
Downer on behalf of the seller as he signed the disclosure statement,
representing that no alterations, additions, or modifications were made without
necessary permits. (Complaint, ¶¶ 117-124.) Plaintiffs do not allege that
Diamond, a contractor, who allegedly failed to repair the property, had an
affirmative duty to Plaintiffs to disclose that unpermitted work had been performed
on the property. 
      Fraud claims are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. (Id.) The particularity
requirements necessitate pleading facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered." (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) The
specificity requirement serves two purposes: “to apprise the defendant of the
specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine whether there
is any basis for the cause of action.”(Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1150, 1167.) The requirement “applies not only
to the alleged misrepresentation, but also to the elements of causation and
damage." (Moncada
v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013)
221 Cal.App.4th 768, 776.)        
      Assuming Diamond made an affirmative misrepresentation
directly to Plaintiffs, (which is not alleged), Plaintiffs do not allege facts
that Diamond intended for Plaintiffs to rely on that misrepresentation, with
intent to deceive the Plaintiffs. Rather, Plaintiffs allege that Diamond did
not perform the corrections at the direction of the seller to save costs. (Complaint
¶¶ 98, 252, 254.) 
 
B.     
Diamond’s liability based on conspiracy
is inadequately alleged. 
      Civil conspiracy is a legal doctrine that
imposes liability on persons who did not actually commit a tort but acted in
concert with another tortfeasor. To support this claim, Plaintiffs must allege
"1) the formation and operation of the conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in
furtherance of the conspiracy, and (3) damages arising from the wrongful
conduct.” (AREI
II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1022.) A
conspiracy “must be activated by the commission of an actual tort." (Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
503, 511.) Where fraud is alleged to be the object of
the conspiracy, the claim must be pleaded with particularity. " (Favila
v. Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 189, 212.) 
      The allegations must “elaborate on the
mutual understanding arrived at by defendants,” that defendants acted jointly,
and “according to a preconceived plan." (Schessler
v. Keck (1954) 125 Cal.App.2d 827, 833.)
      The existence of a conspiracy is often
inferred and “circumstantially derived from the character of the acts done, the
relations of the parties and other facts and circumstances suggestive of
concerted action." (Schessler at
833.)  However, Plaintiffs allege that Diamond’s
intent and motivation to avoid repairing the property was to save costs. (Complaint,
¶ 98.) Plaintiffs do not allege facts that establish Diamond and Downer had a
mutual understanding to misrepresent to Plaintiffs the true condition of the
property. A “naked” allegation of conspiracy is not enough. (Schessler
at 833.) 
      Plaintiffs allege that Diamond (and
others) “effectively adopted the conduct of their coconspirators” to “deceive
Plaintiffs into purchasing a subpar home under the guise that the home was
recently upgraded and had no material defects.” (Complaint. ¶¶ 173-174.)  Again, the factual allegations are contrary to
this conclusion, as the allegations do not allege that Diamond had an interest
in selling the property. The facts do not allege what Diamond did to “adopt”
the conduct of the alleged co-conspirators to misrepresent the true condition
of the property to Plaintiffs. 
 
C.     
The fourth cause of action for fraudulent
concealment is not well pleaded. 
      The elements of a fraud claim based on concealment
are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2)
the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.)    There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at
311). 
      If a fiduciary relationship does not
exist, but the latter three circumstances are present, plaintiff must still
show “the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and
defendant from which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311). 
      The complaint does not adequately allege
the basis for a duty owed by Diamond to disclose defects to Plaintiffs, as
subsequent purchasers. Plaintiffs allege Diamond was the contractor identified
on permits, who performed work on the property. (Complaint ¶ 95). A tort duty "runs
from an architect, designer, or contractor to not only the original owner for
whom real property improvement services are provided, but also to subsequent
owners of the same property.” (Krusi
v. S.J. Amoroso Construction Co. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 995, 1005–1006
[“an action in negligence may be maintained against one not in privity with the
plaintiff if, inter alia, the transaction was designed to affect the plaintiff,
the injury to the plaintiff was foreseeable and his or her harm certain, and
there was a close connection between the defendant's conduct and the harm which
occurred. (Id. at p. 1005-1006.) 
      Plaintiffs’ reliance on Krusi is
misplaced. Krusi does not address a contractor’s duty to disclose
material facts to Plaintiffs. The complaint alleges Diamond’s duty to
“repair/upgrade the property up to code.” (Complaint. ¶ 252.) The allegations
that “each of the Defendants negligently misrepresented to the Plaintiffs that
the property was permitted and up to code” is a conclusory allegation
unsupported by specific facts.
 
D.    
The fifth cause of action for
professional negligence is well stated.
      Diamond argues that a contractor is not a
“professional,” and therefore, cannot be liable for professional malpractice.
(Dem. 6:14-19.) Without citing any authority, Diamond contends that any duty
owed by Diamond was owed to the seller, who hired Diamond. Krusi, cited
above, supports a contractor’s liability owed to subsequent purchasers for negligent
design or construction.  (Krusi
at 1000.)
 
E.   The claim for Unfair Business Practices is
adequately alleged.
      Diamond argues that the complaint does not
allege that Diamond engaged in any untrue or false advertising, and Plaintiffs
could not have been deceived by anything represented by Diamond. The argument
is without merit. 
      “Unfair
competition” means “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200.) The claim can be based on violations of other
laws. The UCL treats them as unlawful practices and makes them independently
actionable. (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.) 
      The
underlying claim for professional negligence against Diamond is adequately
alleged and provides the predicate unlawful and unfair act to support the claim.
(Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores
California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1265 [“Virtually any statute or regulation
(federal or state) can serve as a predicate for a UCL unlawful practice cause
of action.”].)    
IV.   
CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, demurrer is SUSTAINED
as to the second cause of action for fraud, third cause of action for
fraudulent concealment, and the fourth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the sixth cause of action for professional negligence
and the seventh cause of action for violation of Bus. & Prof Code § 17200. 
      Leave to amend is ordinarily
given if there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured.
However, it is the Plaintiffs’ burden to demonstrate how he or she can amend
the complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading."]. (Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now v. Department
of Industrial Relations (1995) 41
Cal.App.4th 298, 302.) As Plaintiffs have not
met this burden, the Court is not inclined to grant leave to amend. 