 Case Number:  24LBCV00075    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Harvey and Devay Reese
filed this action against Defendants, Kimo and Lee Reese for partition of real
property on 1/16/24.  Plaintiffs allege
each party owns a 25% interest in the subject property, and the parties have
been unable to agree on how to sell the property and distribute the
proceeds.  
 

Motion for Order of
     Partition by Sale

Plaintiffs move for an order
entering an interlocutory judgment for partition and sale and appointing a
referee.  Plaintiffs move pursuant to CCP
§§872.720(a), 872.210(a), 873.010(a), 873.060, and 873.070.
 
The subject code sections are found
in the Code of Civil Procedure, Part 2 “Of Civil Actions,” Title 10.5
“Partition of Real and Personal Property,” Chapter 3 “Trial,” and Chapter 4 “Referees.”
 While Plaintiffs correctly cite the
statutes upon which they rely, Plaintiffs omit reference to §872.710(a), which
provides, “At the trial, the court shall determine whether the plaintiff has
the right to partition.”   Thus, by the plain language of the statute,
the trial can be bifurcated if there are multiple claims between the parties,
and the issue of partition can be resolved after the first phase of the trial
by way of an interlocutory judgment, but there is no authority permitting the
matter to be resolved by way of noticed motion.
 
Nothing in the Code permits the
partition determination to be made by way of noticed motion.  Notably, Plaintiffs’ complaint, which is set
for trial on 12/13/24, seeks partition by way of the first and only cause of
action.  Absent authority permitting the
Court to enter an interlocutory judgment by noticed motion, as opposed to
trial, the motion is denied.
 
The Court notes that it appears the
crux of the issue between the parties is whether a referee should be appointed
to coordinate the sale, or whether only a real estate agent should be
used.  The parties previously listed the
home for sale, but the only offer was a sale price below what Defendants
believed to be market value.  The parties
are advised that, if Plaintiffs are successful in showing the need for
partition at trial, appointment of a referee is required per §873.010(a).  Reference is, of course, expensive.  If Defendants wish to avoid appointment of a
referee, the Court encourages them to work with Plaintiffs to list the property
prior to trial and accept the best sale price they are able to obtain.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   