


[1]
However, it does contract with WeWork to allow employees to work at any WeWork
office, including offices in California. (Id.
at ¶ 11.) Indeed, Moving Party indicates that it’s only connection to
California now is Plaintiff, who immigrated to the United States and settled in
California upon marriage. (Id. at ¶¶
22-23.) Still, these are sporadic connections, rather than the “systematic” and
“continuous” connections that comport with “traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice to subject [Moving Party] to the jurisdiction of
[California], even when the cause of action is unrelated to the contacts.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 536.) 
 


[2]
The court will not analyze agency between the two corporations because
Plaintiff did not do so.


[3]
Plaintiff’s purported evidence that Moving Party filed taxes on behalf of
LoginRadius USA, Inc. in California as well as holding a bank account in
California do not help establish purposeful availment because Plaintiff’s claim
is not related to either of these.
 


[4]
In Empire Steel Corp. of Texas, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 823, the “act which conferred jurisdiction
was an independent act of the parent, knowingly creating the misleading
perception to the third party, that the subsidiary was financially solvent.” (Sonora Diamond Corp., supra 83
Cal.App.4th at p. 553.)
 


[5]
Plaintiff also contends Moving Party took concrete steps to relocate Plaintiff
to California, but, as discussed above, Plaintiff initiated the move to
California to be with his wife. The court is not persuaded that Moving Party
assisting Plaintiff to do this is enough to confer jurisdiction.
 


[6]
Plaintiff provides an unsigned “offer of employment” with LoginRadius USA, Inc.
and Plaintiff. (Gupta Decl., Exhibit E.) However, this is unsigned. The court
also notes it includes an arbitration clause.
 


[7]
Although, the court notes that it is likely inequitable to hail Moving Party to
this forum because its employee, Plaintiff, moved to California and it
accommodated his request.

