  Case Number:  24STCV13037    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
4, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Deepak
Gupta v. Rakesh Soni, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV13037

 
MOTION
TO QUASH FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Specially
Appearing Defendant LoginRadius, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff, Deepak Gupta
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order quashing service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Quash is GRANTED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Deepak Gupta (Plaintiff) filed a
Verified Complaint against Defendants Rakesh Soni, Ousama Haffar, Manoj
Ramachandran, and LoginRadius, Inc., (Defendants) with eight causes of action
for: (1) Retaliation and Wrongful Termination in Violation of Cal. Labor Code §
1102.5; (2) Failure to Pay Wages in Violation of California Labor Code §§ 201
and 203; (3) Unpaid Minimum Wages – Labor Code §§ 1194, 1194.2, 1191.1, and
Wage Order 2; (4) Waiting Time Penalties for Unpaid Wages – Labor Code §§ 201,
202, 203; (5) Failure to Furnish Timely and Accurate Itemized Wage Statements
Pursuant to Labor Code § 226 and Wage Order 5; (6) Unfair Business Practices in
Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.; (7) Intrusion Into
Private Affairs; and (8) Declaratory Relief.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff was CTO for Defendant
LoginRadius, Inc. until he was wrongfully terminated by Defendant Rakesh Soni,
CEO for raising issues about financial transparency and nepotism. Plaintiff
further alleges that Mr. Soni apologized and offered to make Plaintiff Co-CEO
to fix these issues. However, Plaintiff alleges that Mr. Soni reneged on this
agreement and then retaliated against him for so reporting to the Board.
Plaintiff alleges he has not received compensation, that Defendants improperly
accessed his email, and that Defendants improperly disseminated his private
information to third parties without his consent.
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed proof of personal service
on LoginRadius, Inc. indicating service on June 3, 2024 on registered agent,
Northwest Registered Agent, Inc., 2108 N. St. Ste N., Sacramento, California
95816.
 
On July 3, 2024, LoginRadius, Inc. (moving party) filed the
instant motion to quash. 
 
On September 6, 2024, the court advanced the hearing date to
October 4, 2024.
 
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On September 26, 2024, Moving Party filed a
reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Motion to Quash
 
“A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more
of the following purposes: To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1).)¿  
¿¿¿ 
A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the
ground the court lacks personal jurisdiction.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1).)¿¿ The plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts
justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (Burdick
v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 17 (Burdick); Vons Companies,
Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 449 (Vons).) ¿By¿statute, the courts of this
state may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants to the
extent permitted by the United States Constitution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.10.)¿ Under the Constitution, due process requires that a nonresident
defendant have¿“certain minimum contacts” with a forum such that the court’s
exercise of personal jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.¿ (Int’l
Shoe Co. v. Wash.¿(1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Moving Party’s request for judicial notice is denied.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The court is unaware of any legal
authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion,
except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication [CCP § 437c (q)] or
a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019)
6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.) As such, this court respectfully declines to rule on
any of these objections.  This court is well aware of the rules of
evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the
proposed evidence.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
California courts have personal jurisdiction over an
out-of-state defendant only if (1) jurisdiction is available under California’s
long arm statute and (2) the exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant does
not offend principles of due process. (Buchanan
v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1361-1362; see also Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29
Cal.4th 262, 268.) Where, as here, a state has construed its long-arm statute
to provide jurisdiction to the constitutional limits of due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment, the focus is solely on whether the exercise of
jurisdiction would comport with due process. (See In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
100, 107-108 (2005); Pavlovich, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 268.) Due process requires that a nonresident defendant have
certain minimum contacts with the forum state “such that the exercise of
jurisdiction does not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.’” (Buchanan, supra, 241
Cal.App.4th at p. 1362 (quoting Int’l
Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316).) 
 
It is the plaintiff who has the burden of proving personal
jurisdiction by showing that the defendant had the requisite “minimum contacts”
with California, under either a general jurisdiction or a specific jurisdiction
theory. (Floveyor International, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 797.) “Although the defendant is
the moving party and must present some admissible evidence (declarations or
affidavits) to place the issue [of personal jurisdiction] before the court (by
showing the absence of¿minimum contacts with the state), the burden of proof is
on the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, a basis for
jurisdiction (minimum contacts between the defendant and the forum state) and
valid service of process in conformance with our service statutes.”¿(School Dist. Of Okaloosa County v. Superior
Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1126,¿1131.)¿ 
 
General
Jurisdiction
 
Moving Party contends it is not subject to general
jurisdiction because it is a Canadian corporation with no contacts in
California. Plaintiff does not actually argue there is general jurisdiction but
argues there is personal jurisdiction because LoginRadius USA, Inc., Moving
Party’s wholly-owned subsidiary, does have the requisite contacts with
California and is Moving Party’s alter ego.
 
A defendant is subject to a state’s general jurisdiction if
its contacts “are so continuance and systematic as to render [it] essentially
at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler
AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 127.)  A corporation is typically
subject to general jurisdiction where it is incorporated and where it has its
principal place of business. (Ford Motor
Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 592 U.S. 351, 359.)
 
Here,
there is insufficient evidence supporting general jurisdiction. Notably, Moving
Party is a Canadian corporation. (Anand Decl. ¶¶ 8-9, 12.) Its principal place
of business is in Canada.[1] (Id. at ¶ 10.) 
 

Alter Ego

 
Plaintiff concludes that LoginRadius USA, Inc. is the alter
ego of Moving Party.[2]

 
“[W]hen the corporate form is used to perpetrate a fraud,
circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose”
courts may pierce the corporate veil to hold the equitable owners responsible
for the corporation’s actions. (Sonora
Diamond Corp., supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 538.) California has two
requirements: first, “there must be such a unity of interest and ownership
between the corporation and its equitable owner” that there is not really a
separate personality and second “there must be an inequitable result” by
treating the acts in question as belonging to the corporation only. (Ibid.) There are a variety of factors involved
and the remedy is “extreme” and “sparingly used.” (Id. at 539.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s purported argument for alter ego liability
is actually a discussion on purposeful availment which is appropriate for
specific, not general, jurisdiction. Plaintiff barely discusses the Sonora Diamond Corp. factors or any
reasons why the court should pierce the corporate veil of LoginRadius USA, Inc.
 
Accordingly, the court will not impose alter ego liability. 
 
Accordingly,
the court does not have general jurisdiction over Moving Party.
 
Specific
Jurisdiction
 
“When
determining whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider the
‘relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’” (Halyard Health, Inc. v. Kimberly-Clark Corp.
(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1070.) There are three requirements for specific
jurisdiction: “(1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of forum
benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy is
related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3)
the exercise of jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” (Ibid.) To determine whether the exercise of
specific jurisdiction is proper in a given case, courts consider the
relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.¿ (Pavlovich v. Superior Court¿(2002) 29
Cal.4th 262, 269.)¿¿“[I]t is the defendant’s conduct that must form the
necessary connection with the forum State that is the basis for its
jurisdiction over him.”¿ (Walden v.
Fiore¿(2014) 134¿S.Ct. 1115, 1122 (Walden).)¿
“[A]¿defendant’s contacts with the¿forum¿State may be intertwined with his
transactions or interactions with the plaintiff or other parties.¿¿But a
defendant’s relationship with a plaintiff or third party, standing alone, is an
insufficient basis for¿jurisdiction.”¿ (Id.¿at
p. 1123.)¿¿It is the plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that the defendant’s
conduct giving rise to the pleaded causes of action amounts to constitutionally
cognizable “minimum contacts.”¿ (Elkman,¿supra,¿173 Cal.App.4th at p. 1313.)¿ 
A nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is related to or
“arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This test does
not require a “causal relationship between the defendant’s in-state activity
and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor
Co., supra, 592 U.S. at p. 361.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks
about causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defendant actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at
p. 1027.)   
 
i.                   
Purposeful Availment 
 
“[P]urposeful¿availment¿occurs
where a nonresident defendant purposefully directs¿its activities at residents
of the forum [citation],¿purposefully derives¿benefit¿from’ its activities in
the forum [citation],¿creates a substantial connection with the forum
[citation],¿deliberately has engaged in significant activities within’ the
forum [citation],¿or has created continuing obligations between itself¿and
residents of the forum.” (Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. v. Superior Court¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 978 (Anglo Irish), internal quotation marks
and citations omitted.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff
has not met his burden showing Moving Party purposefully availed itself of
California as a forum. Notably, the connection based on Plaintiff’s employment
is based on Plaintiff’s independent
move to California to be with his wife and not at Moving Party’s direction.
(Anand Decl. ¶ 22.) It is therefore “fortuitous” that Moving Party has a
relationship with California, if any, because Plaintiff decided to move there.[3]
(Ford Motor Co., supra, 592 U.S. at
p. 359.) Similarly, Moving Party’s use of Gusto to handle payroll matters (for
Plaintiff) also does not demonstrate “significant business activities” in
California as Plaintiff suggests because they are still tied to his independent
move to California. (Gupta Decl., Exhibit C.) Taken together, these actions show
Moving Party accommodating Plaintiff’s request to work remotely from California
where his wife lived. The court is hardpressed to find this is purposeful
availment by Defendant. If anything, Plaintiff purposefully availed themself.
 
Plaintiff has also not demonstrated that Moving Party acted
through LoginRadius USA, Inc. to satisfy the purposeful availment requirement. “The
principle of availment arises where it is shown that a specific activity of the
parent corporation, while done in the context of the parent-subsidiary
relationship, is itself sufficient to justify the exercise of jurisdiction over
the parent by the forum state.” (Sonora
Diamond Corp., supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 552.) “[T]he acts furnishing the
basis for jurisdiction must be related to the cause of action for which
jurisdiction is sought.” (Ibid.) Therefore,
“the focus is on the acts of the parent itself.” (Ibid.) A parent corporation’s “obvious volitional choice to enter
the California market through a subsidiary” is “not enough” to give California
jurisdiction over the parent.[4]
(Id. at p. 553 [internal citations
omitted.])  It is worthwhile to state the rule as set
forth in Northern Natural Gas Co. v.
Superior Court (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 983 that a parent corporation cannot be
subject to jurisdiction solely by the fact that the subsidiary is wholly owned
by the parent.
 
Here, the acts
are not the basis for jurisdiction. The reasons Plaintiff provides to confer
jurisdiction on Moving Party through LoginRadius USA, Inc. are that it is the
parent company, that it supposedly paid LoginRadius USA, Inc.’s taxes in 2017,
has a California bank account, and participated in Plaintiff’s employment.[5]
(Opp. 5:8-6:8.) However, Plaintiff’s claims stem from his employment with
Moving Party only.[6]
(See, generally, Verified Complaint.) He does not discuss LoginRadius USA, Inc.
at all. (Ibid.) He claims Moving
Party and its Board of Directors acted wrongfully and seeks enforcement of
California labor laws against them. (Ibid.)
There is simply not enough evidence for a prima facie showing to meet
Plaintiff’s burden.
 
Accordingly,
Moving Party did not purposefully avail itself of California’s forum.
 
ii.                 
Fair Play and Substantial Justice 
 
Courts may
consider the following: “¿“the burden on the defendant,” “the forum State's
interest in adjudicating the dispute,” “the plaintiff's interest in obtaining
convenient and effective relief,” “the interstate judicial system's interest in
obtaining the most efficient resolution of controversies,” and the “shared
interest of the several States in furthering fundamental substantive social
policies.”” (Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz¿(1985) 471 U.S. 462, 477.)¿¿ 
 
Neither party briefed this issue. The court declines to
analyze this issue since Moving Party did not purposefully avail itself of
California as a forum.[7]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Quash is GRANTED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              October 4, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


