 Case Number:  23TRCV01123    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ROBERT
  NANTZ, JR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01123




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DRIFTWOOD
  HEALTHCARE CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 15,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Driftwood
Healthcare and Wellness Center, LLC dba Driftwood Healthcare Center, Citrus
Wellness Center, LLC, Rechnitz Citrus, GP, and Shlomo Rechnitz
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs Robert Nantz, Jr.,
in and through his successor in interest Barbara Nantz, and Barbara Nantz
Motion to Bifurcate Trial
Into Two Phases to Determine (1) Liability and Compensatory Damages and (2)
Punitive Damages
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  (Plaintiff’s
“Opposition” agrees that bifurcation is appropriate but addressed some issues
related to the specifics of the manner in which the bifurcated trial would
proceed.)
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The trial is bifurcated in two phases:  first phase is for the jury to determine
liability and compensatory damages; and the second phase is for the jury to
determine punitive damages. 
BACKGROUND
On April 11, 2023, plaintiffs
Robert Nantz, Jr., in and though his successor-in-interest Barbara Nantz and
Barbara Nantz filed a complaint against Driftwood Healthcare Center, Driftwood
Healthcare and Wellness Center, LLC dba Driftwood Healthcare Center, Citrus
Wellness Centre, LLC, Rechnitz Citrus, GP, and Shlomo Rechnitz for (1) elder
abuse, (2) negligence, (3) violation of Health and Safety Code §1430, (4)
willful misconduct, and (5) wrongful death.
On September 25, 2023, the parties
stipulated to preference designation and the court ordered and set a preference
trial date of March 13, 2024.  It states
that the parties also stipulate that there shall be no continuance beyond 15
days from the trial set forth by the court.
On January 8, 2024, plaintiffs
filed an amendment designating Rockport Administrative Services, LLC as Doe 1
and Pacific Healthcare Holdings, Inc. as Doe 2.
Trial is set for April 15, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP §598, “[t]he court may,
when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof in the case . . . .”
Under CCP §1048(b), “[t]he court,
in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials
will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any
cause of action . . . or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues.”
Under Civil Code §3295(d), “[t]he
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the trier
of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that
a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294.”   
DISCUSSION
Pursuant to CCP §§598 and 1048 and
598 and Civil Code §3295(d), defendants request that the court bifurcate the
trial in to two phases:  (1) jury trial
for liability and compensatory damages; and, if necessary, (2) jury to determine
punitive damages. 
Defendants argue that bifurcation
would be in the interests of justice and judicial economy.  Defendants also argue that preclusion of
defendants’ wealth for punitive damages is mandatory under Civil Code §3295(b).
 Defendants contend that evidence of
their profits and financial status is irrelevant to determining liability and
that evidence of such is prejudicial, confusing, misleading, and will
necessitate undue consumption of time.
In opposition, plaintiffs assert
that they do not oppose bifurcation of the punitive damages phase from the
liability phase. but that evidence of financial condition must be presented to
the same trier of fact.  Plaintiffs also
seek to have the court instruct the jury that there may be a second phase and
to allow plaintiffs to voir dire the jurors on punitive damages.  (The issue of voir dire shall be addressed in
the future.)
The court rules as follows:  In trials where punitive damages are claimed,
bifurcation is mandatory on defendant’s motion: 
No evidence of defendant’s wealth (e.g., assets, income, financial
condition, etc.) is admissible “until after the trier of fact returns a verdict
for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finding the defendant guilty of
malice, oppression or fraud in accordance with Section 3294” (requiring clear
and convincing evidence).  Civ. Code §3295(d);
see CACI 3948, 3949; see also BAJI 14.72.1, 14.72.2.  “Upon a defendant’s motion, a trial must be
bifurcated when a plaintiff seeks punitive damages.”  Westrec Marina Mgt., Inc. v. Jardine Ins.
Brokers Orange County, Inc. (2000) 85 Cal. App. 4th 1042, 1050.  This avoids the risk that defendant’s
financial condition might taint the jury's determination of the underlying
liability case and the issues of “oppression, fraud or malice.”  Medo v. Superior Court (1988) 205 Cal.
App. 3d 64, 67–68.  As to instructions to
the jury and voir dire, plaintiffs’ request is premature and not encompassed
within the herein bifurcation motion.
            The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  The trial is bifurcated in two phases:  first phase is for the jury to determine
liability and compensatory damages; and the second phase is for the jury to
determine punitive damages. 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice of the ruling.