 Case Number:  23TRCV02264    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JUSTINA
  ODEROHA, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02264




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
ASHANTI
  LATRICE COLE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 15,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant 1580 Centinela Associates, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Justina Oderoha, et al.
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer to the Six, Seventh and
Eighth Causes of Action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
            The motion to strike is MOOT as to
exemplary and punitive damages and DENIED as to “loss of use,” “diminution in
value,” prejudgment interest and “impairment of quality of life.” 
BACKGROUND
            On July 13, 2023, plaintiffs Justina
Oderoha , Stephanie Oderoha, Rebecca Oderoha, and Omojefe Christopher Emesaha
filed a complaint against Ashanti Latrice Cole, Mario L. Rosado, Fresh
Ethiopian Restaurant, Elias F. Belete, Solomon Solomon, and 1580 Centinela
Associates, LLC for (1) assault, (2) battery, (3) IIED, (4) motor vehicle
negligence, (5) general negligence, (6) premises liability, (7) general
negligence, and (8) loss of consortium.
            It is alleged that defendant 1580
Centinela Associates, LLC “owned, managed, operated, controlled, inspected,
maintained, protected, cleaned, repaired, guarded, supervised, designed,
engineered, constructed, regulated, renovated, monitored and/or secured the
property located at or about 1580 Centinela Avenue, Inglewood, California 90302.”
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant 1580 Centinela
Associates, LLC demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action for premises liability, Seventh
Cause of Action for general negligence, and Eighth Cause of Action for general
negligence – loss of consortium on the grounds that they fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
In the complaint, plaintiffs allege
that on August 7, 2021, they were on the subject property to eat dinner at the
subject restaurant, Fresh Ethiopian Restaurant. 
Plaintiffs were seated inside the Fresh Ethiopian Restaurant at 1580
Centinela Avenue, Unit 6, Inglewood, and it was after 2:00 a.m. and the
restaurant defendants (Fresh Ethiopian Restaurant and co-owner Solomon Solomon)
were still negligently and carelessly serving alcohol to patrons dining inside,
including to defendants Ashanti Latrice Cole and Mario Rosado.  An argument began between other guests or
patrons inside the restaurant, involving defendants.  The subject argument did not involve
plaintiffs.  The argument continued to
escalate as the night went on, and despite the same, the restaurant defendants
continued to serve more alcohol, thereby increasing the volatility of the
situation and the risk of harm to other patrons, including plaintiffs.  Once the subject argument got unreasonably
and/or excessively loud and heated, the restaurant defendants decided to
remove, expel, and/or remove all patrons and guests of the restaurant,
including defendants, and eventually plaintiffs, and placing or forcing all
restaurant patrons and guests into the parking lot of the subject premises at
the same time.  Complaint, ¶23.
The complaint further alleges that
plaintiffs began to head to their motor vehicle, which was parked in the
subject parking lot, in order to head home. 
There was another vehicle that was parked in tandem behind plaintiffs’
vehicle.  Defendants entered their motor
vehicle and drove it at a high and/or unreasonable rate of speed, causing their
vehicle to violently and forcefully collide into the tandem vehicle, causing
the tandem vehicle to be pushed forward, crushing plaintiffs Justina Oderoha
and Stephanie Oderoha between the tandem vehicle and plaintiffs’ vehicle.  Id., ¶24. 
Plaintiffs Justina and Emesaha are married.  Id., ¶15. 
Plaintiffs Justina, Stephanie, and Rebecca are sisters.  Id., ¶16.
            Sixth
Cause of Action for premises liability
The elements for premises liability
are 1. That defendant owned/leased/occupied/controlled the property; 2. That
defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; 3. That
plaintiff was harmed; and 4. That defendant’s negligence was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  CACI
No. 1000.  Defendant “was negligent in
the use or maintenance of the property if: 
1. A condition on the property created an unreasonable risk of harm; 2.
Defendant knew or, through the exercise of reasonable care, should have known
about it; and 3. Defendant failed to repair the condition, protect against harm
from the condition, or give adequate warning of the condition.”  CACI No. 1003.  
Under this cause of action,
plaintiffs allege that property defendant 1580 Centinela Associates, LLC
negligently and carelessly owned, managed, operated, controlled, inspected,
maintained, protected, cleaned, repaired, guarded, supervised, designed,
engineered, constructed, regulated, renovated, monitored, and/or secured the
property located at 1580 Centinela Avenue, Inglewood.  The restaurant defendants served patrons food
and alcohol, even unlawfully after hours, for profit; that on or before the
subject date, property owner defendants knew, or in the exercise of reasonable
care should have known, that restaurant defendants continued to operate their
restaurant and serve alcohol to guests and patrons after hours; that despite
having knowledge of the foregoing, property owner defendants failed to and/or
inadequately, improperly, insufficiently, and/or unreasonably warned,
reprimanded, punished, stopped and/or evicted restaurant defendants before the
subject date; that the restaurant defendants and/or property owner defendants
knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known that the more a
person ingests alcohol, the more it may lower the person’s inhibitions, change
their mood, make them volatile and aggressive, thereby potentially increasing
the risk of harm to the individual and others. 
Property owner defendants and/or restaurant defendants failed to have
and/or had insufficient, inadequate, and/or substandard security and/or safety
protocols, controls, and/or measures in place, despite there being a history of
other incidents occurring on the subject property and/or at the subject
restaurant, including fights, attacks, robberies, burglaries, carjackings,
and/or assaults with guns and/or deadly weapons, which the property owner
defendants and/or restaurant defendants knew or should have known about.  Complaint, ¶63.
The complaint further alleges that
defendants Cole and Rosado chose to flee from the scene of the subject incident
and that restaurant and property defendants did not take or use reasonable or
adequate measures, steps, means and/or precautions to guide, control, manage,
supervise, guard, protect and/or monitor vehicles and/or foot traffic on the
subject premises and/or the parking lot, including the subject vehicle to make
sure that motor vehicles and the public are kept safely away from each other,
thereby increasing the risk of harm to others, including plaintiffs.  Id., ¶64.
Defendant argues that this cause of
action (along with the Seventh and Eighth Causes of
Action) fails because California law significantly limits third-party
liability for alcohol-related accidents, citing to Civil Code §1714 and Bus.
& Prof. Code §25602.  Thus, defendant
contends, if the actual entity or individual which or who served alcohol is not
considered the proximate cause for a subsequent injury “certainly the owner of
the building cannot be considered the proximate cause for a subsequent injury.”  Defendant further argues that plaintiffs do
not allege a “dangerous condition” of the parking lot.  Rather, defendant asserts, all that is
alleged is that there were two vehicles parked, one in front of the other, and
one of the vehicles was operated in such a manner as to strike plaintiffs who
were standing between the two vehicles. 
Defendant also contends that as to plaintiffs’ allegation that defendant
“had a duty to control or monitor motor vehicles and foot traffic,” it is
unclear from where this duty stems.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they sufficiently alleged the elements.
The court rules as follows:  Civil Code §1714(b) states that the furnishing
of alcoholic beverages “is not the proximate cause of injuries resulting from
intoxication, but rather the consumption of alcoholic beverages is the
proximate cause of injuries inflicted upon another by an intoxicated
person.”  Bus. & Prof. Code §25602
states:  “No person who sells, furnishes,
gives, or causes to be sold, furnished, or given away, any alcoholic beverage
pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section shall be civilly liable to any
injured person or the estate of such person for injuries inflicted on that
person as a result of intoxication by the consumer of such alcoholic beverage.”  Thus, to the extent that liability against
property owner is hinges on the furnishing of alcohol, the allegations are
insufficient as to liability.  Further,
the allegations are insufficient because although plaintiffs allege the
existence of a “dangerous condition,” they do not allege the condition on the
property that created an unreasonable risk of harm.  
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Sixth Cause of Action.
            Seventh
Cause of Action for general negligence
The Seventh Cause of Action alleges
the same as under the Sixth Cause of Action.
Defendant argues that as a matter
of law, it did not owe any duty to plaintiffs because as alleged defendants
were arguing with other guests and that plaintiffs were not involved in the
altercation and thus it was not foreseeable that plaintiffs may be subject to
any harm.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they sufficiently alleged the elements.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as to duty. 
A duty of care exists when one person has a legal obligation to prevent
harm to another person, such that breach of that obligation can give rise to
liability.  Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal. 5th 204, 209. 
The allegations are conclusory and do not support a legal obligation on
behalf of the property owner to have prevented defendants from driving their
car into another car that hit plaintiffs.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Seventh Cause of Action.
            Eighth
Cause of Action for general negligence – loss of consortium
Under this cause of action,
plaintiffs allege that as a result of defendants’ negligent acts and/or
omissions, and due to the severe and permanent physical and bodily injuries
suffered by plaintiff Justina, plaintiff Emesaha suffered a loss of consortium.  Complaint, ¶77.
Defendant contends that this claim
must fail because it can only be brought by the spouse of an injured person,
appears to be brought by all plaintiffs, and cannot be brought by Justina for
her own physical injuries.  Defendant
notes that the confusion stems from plaintiffs not stating the party asserting
the cause of action, as required by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.112.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they sufficiently alleged the elements and that the cause of action is
brought by plaintiff Emesaha and none of the other plaintiffs.
The court finds that plaintiffs did
not comply with Rule 2.112 in identifying plaintiff Emesaha in the caption of
the cause of action.  Further, as stated
under the Seventh Cause of Action, the allegations are insufficient as to duty.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the court
strike plaintiffs’ claim for exemplary and punitive damages (prayer at para.
7), claim for prejudgment interest (prayer at para. 9), claim for economic
damages in the form of “loss of use” (at 26:9, 33:17, 35:12, 36:3), claim for
economic damages in the form of “diminution in value” (at 26:10, 23-24, 33:18,
34:3-4, 35:12, 36:3), and claim for hedonic damages for “impairment of the
quality of life (at 36:1).
                        Punitive damages
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
Defendant argues that there are no
allegations of malice, oppression, or fraud against moving defendants or
sufficient against an entity defendant as required by Civil Code §3294(b). 
In opposition, plaintiffs assert
that they are not seeking exemplary and punitive damages as against moving
defendants.
The court thus finds that the
motion is moot as to punitive damages. 
The amended pleading should make this clear by expressly so stating.
                        Economic
damages/“loss of use”
            “Where a vehicle is damaged by the
wrongful act of another, the owner is entitled to recover for the damage done
to the vehicle and for the loss sustained by being deprived of its use. . . . [A]n
owner’s recovery for being deprived of the use of a damaged vehicle is
generally to be determined with reference to the period of time reasonably
required for the making of repairs.”  Valencia
v. Shell Oil Co. (1944) 23 Cal. 2d 840, 844 (citations omitted).
Defendant argues that plaintiffs do
not identify any personal property owned by plaintiffs that was damaged or
destroyed in the incident.
            In opposition, plaintiffs contend
that the incident involves plaintiffs’ motor vehicle being struck and damaged.
            The court finds that a claim for
“loss of use” is not improper. 
                        Economic
damages/“diminution in value”
            “’Where personal property is injured
but not wholly destroyed, one rule is that the plaintiff may recover the depreciation
in value (the measure being the difference between the value immediately
before and after the injury), and compensation for the loss of use.’”  Hand Electronics, Inc. v. Snowline Joint
Unified School Dist. (1994) 21 Cal. App. 862, 870 (citation omitted). 
Defendant argues that plaintiffs do
not identify any personal property owned by any plaintiff that was damaged or
destroyed in the incident or allege any facts showing any “diminution in value”
as to any property.
In opposition, plaintiffs contend
that the incident involves plaintiffs’ motor vehicle being struck and damaged.
The court finds that a claim for
“diminution in value” is not improper.
                        Prejudgment interest
            Defendant cites to Civil Code §3287,
which states that a party is entitled to recover prejudgment interest where the
damages are “certain” or “capable of being made certain by calculation” from
the time the right to recover arises, in arguing that prejudgment interest is
not allowed in a tort action because the amount of plaintiffs’ damages for
personal injuries is unliquidated and not know to defendant. 
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
it is not improper to request pre-judgment interest as permitted by California
law and that plaintiffs’ past economic losses could be the basis for an award
of prejudgment interest, subject to the jury or factfinder’s discretion.
            The court rules that requesting
prejudgment interest is proper under Civil Code §3291, which states:  “In any action brought to recover damages for
personal injury sustained by any person resulting from or occasioned by the
tort of any other person, corporation, association, or partnership, whether by
negligence or by willful intent of the other person, corporation, association,
or partnership, and whether the injury was fatal or otherwise, it is lawful for
the plaintiff in the complaint to claim interest on the damages alleged as
provided in this section,” which references CCP §998 offers.”  Thus, the court finds, to the extent that
Civil Code §3291 states that it is lawful for a plaintiff to claim interest as
provided in the section, it is not improper to include a request for
prejudgment interest in the complaint.
                        Hedonic
damages/“impairment of the quality of life”
            Defendant argues that such “hedonic”
damages are disallowed under California law, citing to Loth v. Truck-A-Way
Corp. (1998) 60 Cal. App. 4th 757, 763.  Defendant further contends that plaintiffs’
claim is duplicative of their claim for general damages and thus they seek a
prohibited “double recovery.”
            In opposition, plaintiffs contend
that alleging both general damages and hedonic damages is not improper.
            The court rules as follows:  “In California, a pain and suffering award
may include compensation for the plaintiff’s loss of enjoyment of life.  Loss of enjoyment of life, however, is only
one component of a general damage award for pain and suffering.  It is not calculated as a separate award.”  Loth, supra, at 763.  “Separate instructions on pain and suffering
and loss of enjoyment of life are prohibited because they could mislead a jury
to award double damages for the same injury.” 
Id. at 766.  “’One of the
strongest arguments that has been advanced as a reason for not recognizing loss
of enjoyment of life as a separate category of damages is that it duplicates or
overlaps other categories of damages, such as permanent disability or pain and
suffering.’”  Id. at 766-67
(citation omitted).  The complaint though
properly requests general damages, including “impairment of quality of life,”
and does not request “impairment of quality of life” in a separate category of
damages or separate from general damages. 
            Accordingly, the motion is MOOT as
to exemplary and punitive damages and DENIED as to “loss of use,” “diminution
in value,” prejudgment interest and “impairment of quality of life.” 
ORDER
            The demurrer to the Sixth, Seventh
and Eighth Causes of Action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.  Any amended pleading shall
expressly identify the defendants from whom exemplary damages are sought and
those from whom such exemplary damages are not sought.
            The motion to strike is MOOT as to
exemplary and punitive damages and DENIED as to “loss of use,” “diminution in
value,” prejudgment interest and “impairment of quality of life.” 
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.