 Case Number:  23TRCV00098    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KAILER
  LAWRENCE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00098




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
MERCURY
  INSURANCE COMPANY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 15,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Abigail Margaret Wright and Katherine Wright
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed. 
RULING
            The Second Amended Complaint received
on November 20, 2023 is deemed filed. 
The “Fourth Amended Complaint” received on December 4, 2023 is
rejected.  The demurrer to “claim for
negligent infliction of emotional distress and vicarious liability” is
OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to exemplary and punitive damages in the SAC.  
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer within 20 days to the SAC, which is the operative pleading.
BACKGROUND
            On January 17, 2023, Kailer Lawrence
(self-represented) filed a complaint against Mercury Insurance for (1) general
negligence and (2) motor vehicle negligence.
            On March 13, 2023, plaintiff (self-represented)
filed a FAC for (1) negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3) NIED.
On June 23, 2023, the court
sustained without leave to amend Mercury Ins. Company’s demurrer and granted
plaintiff’s request to amend the FAC to add the proper plaintiff driver.  The motion to strike was granted without
leave to amend.
On November 20, 2023, plaintiff submitted
a SAC against Abigail Margaret Wright and Katherine Wright for negligence.
On December 4, 2023, plaintiff
submitted a “Fourth Amended Complaint.” 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants Abigail Margaret Wright
and Katherine Wright demur to plaintiff’s “claim alleging negligent infliction
of emotional distress and vicarious liability” in the “Fourth Amended
Complaint” on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute
a cause of action.  
As background, on June 23, 2023,
the court sustained Mercury Insurance’s demurrer to the FAC without leave to
amend but allowed plaintiff to amend the FAC to add the proper plaintiff driver
as a defendant.  Plaintiff attempted to
do so improperly via amendments numerous times. 
She identified the amendments as “second amendment,” “third amendment,”
and “fourth amendment,” which were denied. 
Then on November 20, 2023, plaintiff submitted a Second Amended
Complaint, which was “received” but not “filed” on ecourt.  In a minute order dated November 29, 2023,
the court noted that “[p]laintiff makes reference to a Fourth Amended
Complaint, but no complaint is on file” and that “Plaintiff may amend within 10
days if she wishes.”  The minute order
references the FAC filed in March 2023 but does not indicate that plaintiff had
submitted a SAC in November 2023.
As a procedural matter, as to the Second
Amended Complaint received on November 20, 2023, the court deems it filed as of
November 20, 2023.  The “Fourth Amended
Complaint” received on December 4, 2023 is stricken.  As the SAC and the “Fourth Amended Complaint”
appear to be identical, the court deems the demurrer and motion to strike as
against the SAC.
            In reviewing the SAC, the court
notes that there is only one cause of action being asserted against defendants
– that of negligence.  Although there are
allegations of negligent infliction of emotional distress and vicarious
liability, plaintiff is not asserting separate causes of action as to
either.  See CCP §430.10(e) (“The party
against whom a complaint . . . has been filed may object, by demurrer . . . to
the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:  . . . (e) The pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”). 
Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some
valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause of action to be
sustained.”  Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal. App. 4th 97, 119.  Thus, the demurrer is improper as to
allegations of negligent infliction of emotional distress and vicarious
liability.
Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
Motion to Strike
Defendants request that the court
strike the prayer for exemplary and punitive damages.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”  “In order to survive a motion to strike an
allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
Civil Code §3294(b) states: “With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal issued a
peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking punitive
damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any factual
assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression, fraud,
or malice”).
Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a claim for punitive damages because
the allegations do not show oppression, fraud, or malice.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as they do
not rise to the level of oppression, fraud, or malice.  Also, “[i]nasmuch as Civil Code section 3294
requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,’ the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
            The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
The Second Amended Complaint
received on November 20, 2023 is ordered filed nunc pro tunc as of November 20,
2023.
The “Fourth Amended Complaint”
received on December 4, 2023 is reordered stricken.
The demurrer to “claim for
negligent infliction of emotional distress and vicarious liability” is
OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to exemplary and punitive damages.  
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer within 20 days to the SAC, which is the operative pleading.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.