  Case Number:  24STCV07349    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HEATHER
  FREUND, 
  
         vs.
 
CARDINAL
  FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV07349
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 18, 2024



 
Defendant Cardinal Financial Company,
Limited Partnership’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff Heather Freund’s
claims in this action is granted. This case is stayed pending arbitration.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for November 18, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Defendant Cardinal Financial Company, Limited Partnership (“CFC”)
(“Defendant”) moves for an order compelling arbitration of all claims asserted
by Plaintiff Heather Freund (“Freund”) (“Plaintiff”) and staying the instant
action during the pendency of arbitration. 
(Notice of Motion, pg. 2; 9 U.S.C. §4; C.C.P. §§1281.2, 1281.4.)  
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s 8/23/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of
Danielle Drabic (“Drabic”) are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, and 11.
Defendant’s 8/29/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of
Shadie Berenji (“Berenji”) are sustained as to No. 1 and overruled as to Nos. 2
and 3.
Defendant’s 8/29/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of
Freund are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3.1,[1]
3.2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.1, 8.2, 9, 10, 11, 13,[2]
14, and 15.
Plaintiff’s 9/30/24 evidentiary objections to the Supplemental
Declaration of Drabic are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant’s 8/29/24 request for judicial notice of (1) The
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation
Procedures, available at https://www.adr.org/sites/default/files/EmploymentRules-Web.pdf,
(D-RJN, Exh. 1), is granted.
 
Background
On March 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action against
Defendant, asserting nine causes of action: (1) sex/pregnancy discrimination;
(2) violation of pregnancy disability leave law; (3) failure to engage in the
interactive process; (4) failure to provide a reasonable accommodation; (5)
retaliation; (6) failure to prevent discrimination/retaliation; (7) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy; (8) failure to timely pay wages; and
(9) failure to provide personnel and payroll records in connection with Plaintiff’s
termination on September 7, 2021.  (See
Complaint ¶18.)  
Defendant filed the instant motion on June 14, 2024.  Plaintiff filed her opposition on August 23,
2024.  On August 29, 2024, Defendant
filed its reply.
On September 6, 2024, this Court held a hearing on the instant
motion and continued this matter, granting Plaintiff leave to file a sur-reply.
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed her sur-reply.
On November 13, 2024, the Court denied Defendant's ex parte request
to file supplemental papers in response to Plaintiff’s sur-reply.  
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreement
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreement is enforceable.
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
United States Supreme Court has specifically held that the FAA applies to
employment contracts: “[A]s a matter of law the answer is clear.  In the Federal Arbitration Act, Congress has
instructed federal courts to enforce arbitration agreements according to their
terms.”  (Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018)
138 S.Ct. 1612, 1619 [holding that employees must submit to arbitration
agreements including those with collective action waivers].)  
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Plaintiff agreed to arbitration when she entered into the
Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate (“Arbitration Agreement”) that contained the
relevant arbitration clause.  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D.)  Second, the Arbitration Agreement expressly covers “any dispute, past, present,
or future, that [Defendant] may have against [Plaintiff] or that [Plaintiff]
may have against [Defendant].”  (Decl. of
Drabic ¶13, Exh. D at pg. 1 of 3.) 

California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The public policy in favor of arbitration is
so strong that California courts have held that an employee is “bound by the
provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or
[was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th
1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to
order arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an
agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Defendant
proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff.  Defendant submitted evidence that on August
12, 2020, Plaintiff signed the Arbitration Agreement and a second document
entitled “Terms of Use and Consent to Electronic Communications and Electronic
Signature,” on August 11, 2020, wherein Plaintiff agreed to electronically sign
the Arbitration Agreement and for Defendant to provide all communications
electronically by email, text message, or via Defendant’s websites or
applications, including pre-hire and post-offer documentation.  (See Decl. of Drabic ¶12, Exh. C.)  
Plaintiff
argues she never “saw, signed or consented” to the Arbitration Agreement, and
would not have signed the agreement.  (See
Opposition, pg. 5; Decl. of Freund ¶¶6-8.) 
Plaintiff also argues Defendant failed to authenticate the Arbitration
Agreement.  (See Opposition, pgs.
5-6.)  
Plaintiff’s
argument is unavailing.  Here, as in Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group, Defendant has adequately
authenticated Plaintiff’s electronic signature: the Declaration of Drabic
detailed Defendant’s “security precautions regarding transmission and use of an
applicant’s unique username and password, as well as the steps an applicant
would have to take to place his or her name on the signature line,” thereby concluding
that the plaintiff-employee’s name “could only have been placed on the
signature pages . . . by someone using [Plaintiff’s] unique username and
password.”  (Espejo v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1062; see
Decl. of Drabic ¶¶8, 9, 11, 14.)  Moreover,
the Supplemental Declaration of Drabic establishes that Plaintiff accessed the
iSolved system both on August 11th and 12th, 2020, and electronically signed
all documents, including the Arbitration Agreement.  (Supp.-Decl. of Drabic ¶¶11-21, Exhs. 9, 18,
25-27.)
On
a motion to compel arbitration, it is sufficient to provide evidence that the
signatory was required to use a unique, private login and password to create
the electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the procedures the
signatory had to follow to electronically sign the document and the
accompanying security precautions.  (Espejo,
246 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1062.)
Therefore,
Defendant met its burden to demonstrate the electronic signature on the
Arbitration Agreement was the act of Plaintiff and has sufficiently demonstrated
its procedures and security processes for accessing and signing the Arbitration
Agreement.  (See C.C.P.
§1633.9(a).) 
Additionally,
one’s failure to read or understand an arbitration agreement is no bar to enforcement.
 (Harris v. Tap Worldwide LLC (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 373, 383 [“The fact that [plaintiff] either chose not to read
or take time to understand these [arbitration] provisions is legally irrelevant.”];
Stewart v. Preston Pipeline Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1565, 1589 [“Generally,
one who assents to a writing is presumed to know its contents and cannot escape
being bound by its terms merely by contending that he did not read them.”], internal
citations omitted.)
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant proved the existence of a valid Arbitration
Agreement that is enforceable by Defendant.
 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Arbitration Agreement states that it,
[A]pplies, without
limitation, to claims based upon or related to discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, . . . wages, minimum wage and overtime or other compensation or
any monies claimed to be owed, meal breaks and rest periods, termination, . . .
Civil Rights Act of 1964, Americans With Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination
in Employment Act, Family Medical Leave Act, Fair Labor Standards Act, . . . state
and local statutes or regulations addressing the same or similar subject
matters, and all other federal, state, or local legal claims arising out of or
relating to your application for employment, employment, or termination of
employment.  
 
(Decl.
of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D at pg. 1 of 3.)  Plaintiff’s
claims arise from her employment relationship with Defendant and are therefore
governed by the Arbitration Agreement.  Based
on the foregoing, Defendant met its burden of establishing the Arbitration
Agreement covers the causes of action asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiff bears the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
 
1.    
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) the
Arbitration Agreement includes the element of oppression and surprise to
support a finding of a high level of procedural unconscionability based on the
way Defendant chose to sneak the arbitration policy into its employment
relationship by hiding it within the iSolved system and not calling any
attention to it; (2) Defendant never discussed arbitration with Plaintiff and
she never saw or received a copy of the Arbitration Agreement during her
employment and prior to the instant motion; (3) the Arbitration Agreement is a
contract of adhesion and was presented without an opportunity for meaningful
negotiation; and (4) the Arbitration Agreement does not state that it is
voluntary.  (Opposition, pg. 13; Decl. of
Freund ¶¶5-8.)
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice . . .
Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a
‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations.]”  (Roman v. Superior
Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Procedural
unconscionability “focuses on the unequal bargaining positions and hidden terms
common in the context of adhesion contracts.” 
(24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1199, 1212-1213.)  Although standard
employment agreements offered on a “take it or leave it” basis are generally
considered contracts of adhesion, this alone is not enough to equate to
unconscionability.  (See Graham
v. Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817-819 [“To describe a
contract as adhesive in character is not to indicate its legal effect. It is,
rather, ‘the beginning and not the end of the analysis insofar as
enforceability of its terms are concerned.’”].) 
Adhesion contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other
factors are present which under established legal rules—legislative or
judicial—operate to render it otherwise.”  (Id. at pgs. 819-820; Harper v.
Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1409 [adhesion alone does not render
arbitration agreements unconscionable]; see also Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at 114; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps, LLP
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105 [discussing many authorities upholding
arbitration agreements contained in adhesion contracts].) 
Plaintiff’s
argument in opposition that her requirement to sign the Arbitration Agreement
as a condition of his employment is unavailing and is unsupported by case
law.  The adhesive nature of arbitration
agreements in the employment context alone does not render an agreement
unenforceable.  (Lagatree, 74
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1127 [“[C]ases uniformly agree that a compulsory predispute
arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it is required
as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis.”]; Armendariz,
24 Cal. 4th at pg. 113 [holding that the requirement that the employee sign an
arbitration agreement may contain some elements of procedural
unconscionability, but that, in itself, does not invalidate the arbitration
agreement]; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, LP (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 [“Where
there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, the degree of
procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low[.]”].)  
Here,
the Arbitration Agreement is a stand-alone, three-page document which Plaintiff
accessed through iSolved.  Defendant notified
Plaintiff in clear, bold language about the presence of the Arbitration
Agreement and the document is labeled in capital letters, “MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE.”  The Arbitration Agreement contains short
sections with headings describing the contents of each paragraph.  (Decl. of Drabic, Exh. D.)  Further, there is no evidence that Plaintiff
was not given an opportunity to read the Arbitration Agreement. On the
contrary, Defendant submitted evidence that it provides employees the
opportunity to review and sign documents at their leisure and to spend as much
time as they wish on each document. 
(Decl. of Drabic ¶9.)  Therefore,
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate any procedural unconscionability.   (Hicks v. Superior Court (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 77, 91.)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is, at most,
minimally procedurally unconscionable. 
However, as discussed below, the Court finds the arbitration agreement
is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
2.    
Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it (1-2)
lacks mutuality in the claims and parties covered; (3) does not provide for
adequate discovery; (4-5) imposes attorney’s fees and costs unique to
arbitration; (6-7) has an indefinite scope and duration; and (8) is governed by
“then-existing” rules of an arbitration provider (e.g., AAA, JAMS).  (Opposition, pgs. 14-20; Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at pg. 111.)
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations].”  (Roman, 172
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pgs.
102-103.)
First,
Plaintiff argues the Arbitration Agreement lacks mutuality because of the
obligation to arbitrate “any dispute, past, present, or future” on “an
individual basis,” and prohibits the arbitrator from presiding over a class or
collective action (“Class Action Waiver”).  (Opposition, pg. 15; Decl. of Drabic, Exh. D
§§1, 5.)  Plaintiff’s argument is
unavailing because her Complaint does not allege a class or collective
action.  Further, class action waivers
must be enforced as written.  (See
Epic Systems Corp v. Lewis (2018) 138 S.Ct. 1612, 1623.)  
Second,
Plaintiff also argues the Arbitration Agreement lacks mutuality because it
requires Plaintiff to arbitrate her claims against Defendant and all of its
“officers, directors, members, partners, owners, shareholders, employees, benefit
plans, plans’ sponsors, fiduciaries, administrators, affiliates, agents,
predecessors, successors or assigns” (“Related Entities”).  (Opposition, pg. 15; Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh.
D §1.)  Plaintiff’s argument is
unavailing because the Arbitration Agreement requires both parties to
arbitrate all claims against each other and defines “Company” to include all of
Cardinal’s “affiliates, subsidiaries, and dba’s,” thereby binding them to
arbitrate all claims against Plaintiff.  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D.)  Plaintiff offers no authority holding that
requiring arbitration of those standing in the shoes of an arbitration
signatory to assert a claim falling under the Arbitration Agreement somehow
renders an agreement substantively unconscionable, particularly in light of
third-party beneficiary rights and equitable estoppel arguments.  (See, e.g., JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1240 [“A nonsignatory can be compelled
to arbitrate when a preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory
and one of the parties to the arbitration agreement . . . [or] when [the
nonsignatory] is suing as a third-party beneficiary of the contract containing
the arbitration clause.”].)  
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Cook v. University of Southern California to argue that the Arbitration
Agreement lack mutuality is misplaced.  The
Cook Court found that the arbitration agreement lacked mutuality because
the arbitration agreement required the plaintiff to arbitrate all claims
against USC “or any of its related entities . . .” regardless of whether those
claims were related to the plaintiff’s employment but did not similarly require
those entities or individuals to arbitrate against the plaintiff.  (See Cook v. University of Southern
California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312, 326-327.)  Here, the Arbitration Agreement does not
impose such a requirement.  Therefore, Cook
is inapposite.
Third,
Plaintiff’s argument that the discovery permitted under the Arbitration Agreement
is inadequate is also unavailing.  Here,
the Arbitration Agreement permits the parties to conduct sufficient discovery
via depositions, written discovery subpoena witnesses and documents, and allows
the parties to request leave of the arbitrator for additional discovery.  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D at §4.)  This discovery is adequate, reasonable, and
satisfies Armendariz.  (Armendariz,
24 Cal. 4th at pg. 106.)  Armendariz
also states that lack of discovery is not grounds for holding a FEHA claim
inarbitrable.  (Id.)  Plaintiff’s reliance on Baxter v. Genworth
North America Corp. is misplaced because unlike the agreement in Baxter,
here, the Arbitration Agreement does not prohibit Plaintiff or her counsel from
obtaining information outside of the formal discovery process.
Fourth,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable contains
attorneys’ fees clauses that would require Plaintiff to pay attorneys’ fees
that she would not pay in court, and thus are unfair and violate Armendariz.  (Opposition, pgs. 17-18.)  However, the Arbitration Agreement states
that Defendant will pay the required arbitration-related fees and each party
will bear their own attorneys’ fees, except that “if any party prevails on a
claim which affords the prevailing party attorneys’ fees, the Arbitrator may
award reasonable fees to the prevailing party as provided by law.”  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D at §7.)  Because the Arbitration Agreement specifically
requires that the arbitrator apply applicable laws governing award of
attorneys’ fees and costs, the agreement is not unconscionable.
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Trivedi v. Curexo Technology Corp. is misplaced because,
unlike here, the arbitration agreement in Trivedi unequivocally provided
that the “prevailing party shall be entitled to recovery from the other party
all costs, expenses and reasonable attorney [] fees.”  (Trivedi v. Curexo Technology Corp. (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 387, 392.)  No such
provision is present in the instant Arbitration Agreement.
Fifth,
Plaintiff’s argument that the Arbitration Agreement contains an Offer of
Judgment clause that includes a cost-shifting provision that is not limited to instances
where the Plaintiff’s claims were frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless, and
therefore it would unconscionably require Plaintiff to pay costs that she would
not pay in court is similarly unavailing. 
The Arbitration Agreement provides that the parties agree to use the
procedures under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 68 for offers of judgment.  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D, § 8.)  Courts of Appeal have already adjudicated this
issue and concluded that parties to an arbitration agreement can incorporate
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure without rendering the agreement
unenforceable.  (See Hernandez v.
Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, 242.)  Should Defendant prevail at arbitration after
an offer of judgment and Plaintiff believes that substantive FEHA law precludes
an award of fees, she can make that argument to the arbitrator.  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D, §8 [stating arbitrator
“shall retain jurisdiction to decide the motion and award costs to the offeror
as warranted”]; see id. at §3 [“The Arbitrator will apply the substantive
federal, state, or local law applicable to the claim(s) asserted.”].)
Sixth,
Plaintiff’s argument that the Claims Covered is substantively unconscionable because
it applies to all claims regardless of whether they arose from the employment
relationship (Opposition, pg. 19) is unavailing.  The Claims Covered defines arbitrable claims
as those that “aris[e] out of or relat[e] to [Plaintiff’s] employment.”  (Decl. of Drabic ¶13, Exh. D at §1.)  Under ordinary contract interpretation
principles, the Court must analyze “[t]he whole of [the Arbitration Agreement] .
. . taken together, so as to give effect to every part, if reasonably
practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.”  (Civ. Code §1641.)  Plaintiff’s interpretation requires this Court
to ignore express provisions of the Arbitration Agreement, nullifying the
parties’ express agreement to limit arbitrable claims to those arising out of
the parties’ employment relationship.
Seventh,
Plaintiff’s further contention that the MAA is unconscionable because it
survives indefinitely following termination of employment is also unavailing.  The Arbitration Agreement is not indefinite
because, unlike the agreement in Cook, the instant Arbitration Agreement
does not include an express term of duration that demonstrates it would not be
terminable at will after a reasonable time.  (See Cook, 102 Cal.App.5th at pg. 326 [“The
arbitration agreement specifically provides that it will survive unless and until
Cook and USC’s president specifically terminate the agreement in a writing,
signed by both parties, which expressly mentions the arbitration agreement.”]; see
also Reigelsperger v. Siller (2007) 40 Cal.4th 574, 580 [“arbitration
agreements that do not specify a term of duration are terminable at will after
a reasonable time has elapsed” even where the agreement provides that it may
cover future disputes between the parties and are therefore enforceable].)  Here, there is not an express term of
duration in the Arbitration Agreement; therefore, the Arbitration Agreement
follows the general principle that it is terminable at will after a reasonable
time applies.
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement provides that “arbitration will
be administered by the AAA, and except as provided in this Agreement, will be
under the then current Employment Arbitration Rules of the AAA,” and is
therefore unconscionable because states it is governed by unknown future
existing arbitration rules.  (Opposition,
pgs. 19-20; Hasty v. American Automobile Assn. (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th
1041, 1061, review denied (May 1, 2024); see Decl. of Drabic ¶13,
Exh. D at §3.)  This argument is also
unavailing.  
The
Court in Hasty observed that “although not addressed by the parties,”
the hyperlink to the JAMS rules did not lead to a functioning webpage, and
“[i]t is unclear how” an employee would know the term being agreed to when the
rules might be different when the dispute arises in the future.  (Hasty, 98 Cal.App.5th at pgs. 1060-1061.)
 
Here,
unlike in Hasty, the hyperlink provided is functioning and the Arbitration
Agreement provides an alternative method of searching for the AAA Rules.  (See D-RJN Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff points to no provision that is unconscionable.
 (See Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246 [requiring plaintiff to specifically challenge
“some element of the AAA rules of which she had been unaware when she signed
the arbitration agreement”].)
Based
on the evidence before the Court, the terms of the Arbitration Agreement do not
create overly harsh or one-sided results, satisfying the requirements for a
substantively conscionable agreement.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
D.  
Conclusion
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 

The case is
stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance case review for November
18, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  