 Case Number:  24STCV11411    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LUZ
  MARIA,
  et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
DIANA
  RODRIGUEZSUASTEGUI, et al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV11411
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 18, 2024



 
Plaintiff Luz Maria’s motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint is granted.  Plaintiffs may
file the proposed first amended complaint with the Court.
 
          Plaintiff Luz
Maria (“Maria”) (“Moving Plaintiff”) moves for an order
granting her leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”) to correct Moving Plaintiff’s
name to conform to the real party in interest, Destiny Maria.  (Notice of Motion, pg. ii;
C.C.P. §§473, 576; CRC, Rule 3.1324.)
          
          Procedural
Background
          Moving
Plaintiff and Brianna Villa (“Villa”) (collectively, Plaintiffs”) filed the
operative Complaint for personal injury on May 7, 2024, alleging two causes of
action against Defendants Diana Rodriguezsuastegui (“Rodriguezsuastegui”) and Jose
Alquisira (“Alquisira”) (collectively, “Defendants”): (1) motor vehicle
negligence; and (2) general negligence. 
(See Complaint.)
          Moving Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on August 23, 2024. 
Defendants filed their opposition on October 22, 2024.  Moving Plaintiff filed her reply on November
5, 2024.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in furtherance
of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such amendments, at any
stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this state since
1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486,
488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Moving
Plaintiff’s motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The
motion includes a copy of the proposed FAC.  (Decl. of Hassid ¶2, Exh. A.)   Moving
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration sets forth the allegations proposed to be
added and deleted, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number.  (See Decl. of Hassid ¶¶3-5.)
Moving
Plaintiff’s motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Moving Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
specifies the effect of the amendments and explains why the amendments are
necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Hassid ¶6.)  Moving Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts the proposed amendment is necessary and proper because it will “allow
Destiny Maria, the real party in interest, to protect her rights and have her
day in court.”  (Decl. of Hassid ¶6.)
Moving
Plaintiff’s counsel states when the facts giving rise to substantive amended
allegations were discovered and why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  Moving Plaintiff’s counsel
declares, “[o]n May 7, 2024, I caused Plaintiffs’ Complaint to be filed,
therein asserting claims for (a) general negligence; and (b) motor vehicle
liability. Through my and my office’s inadvertence, error and mistake, I and my
office inadvertently included the name of real party in interest’s mother, Luz
Maria, rather than Destiny Maria.”  (Decl.
of Hassid ¶8.)  Moving Plaintiff’s
counsel declares, ““[t]his request for amendment by Motion was made as soon as
reasonably practicable upon discovery of the clerical error giving rise to this
amendment.”  (Decl. of Hassid ¶12.)
Moving
Plaintiff’s counsel declares, “I believe that [this motion is brought in] the
interests of justice and of judicial efficiency, as (a) the correction is necessitated
on account the undersigned counsel’s clerical error, inadvertence and mistake
that was only recently discovered; (b) the amendment does not seek to add new
causes of action but, rather, only corrects the complaint to name the real
party in interest in this case; and, (c) does not substantively affect the
claims being asserted against Defendants in this case.”  (Decl. of Hassid ¶6.)
Defendants’
arguments in opposition to Moving Plaintiff’s motion are unavailing.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ claims are
barred by the statute of limitations.  (Opposition, pg. 4.)  Ordinarily, a court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in deciding whether to grant leave to amend. Grounds for
demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  Instead, after leave to amend is granted, Defendants
will have the opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading.  (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048; Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760, [“the better course of action would have been
to allow [plaintiff] to amend the complaint and then let the parties test its
legal sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings”].)
Defendants
also oppose Moving Plaintiff’s motion on the basis that Moving Defendant has
not established that she was ignorant of Destiny Maria’s identity at the time the
Complaint was filed.  (Opposition, pg. 5;
Stephens v. Berry (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 474, 477.)  However, Defendants’ reliance on Stephens
v. Berry (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 474 in support of this premise is misplaced.
 In Stephens, the plaintiffs sought to add a new
defendant in lieu of a fictitiously named defendant. (Stephens, 249
Cal.App.2d at pg. 476.)  It is only in
the context of amendments relating to suits brought against fictitiously named
parties that a Plaintiff, pursuant to C.C.P. §474, must meet their burden to
demonstrate they were ignorant to the name of the defendant sued under a
fictitious name.  (Stephens, 249
Cal.App.2d at pg. 477.)  Here, C.C.P.
§474 is inapplicable because Plaintiff’s motion does not implicate amending the
names of DOE defendants.  Further, 
when it comes to adding a new
plaintiff, courts have refined the general rule: A new plaintiff’s claims
relate back to claims asserted in a previously and timely filed complaint if
the new plaintiff is seeking to enforce the same right as a previously named
plaintiff (because, in that case, the amendment relies on the same general set
of facts, involves the same injury, and refers to the same instrumentality of
the defendant’s conduct). (Klopstock v. Superior Court (1941) 17
Cal.2d 13, 16-21, 108 P.2d 906 (Klopstock).  
 
(Engel
v. Pech (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 1227, 1236-1237, as modified on denial of
reh’g (Oct. 19, 2023).)
Finally,
the policy favoring amendment is so strong that denial of leave to amend can
rarely be justified: “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of
the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse
permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  
Based
on the foregoing, Moving Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend her Complaint
and file the proposed FAC is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Moving
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend her Complaint is granted.  Moving Plaintiff may file the proposed FAC
with the Court.
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  