 Case Number:  23PSCV02745    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Gregory Allen French’s Motion for Trial
Preference
Respondent: Defendant Southern
California Specialty Care, LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Gregory Allen French’s Motion for Trial
Preference is DENIED without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for elder abuse. Defendant Southern California Specialty Care, LLC
is an acute care hospital that operates in West Covina under the name Kindred
Hospital – San Gabriel Valley (Kindred SGV). In July 2022, Kindred SGV admitted
Plaintiff Gregory Allen French after French had suffered a stroke. During
French’s sixty day stay at Kindred SGV, French alleges French developed a stage
four pressure ulcer on the sacral/coccyx area of French’s body.
On
September 7, 2023, French filed a complaint against Kindred SGV and Does 1-250,
alleging a single cause of action for elder abuse.
On October 5,
2023, French filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for
November 13 with an informal discovery conference on December 1, and a case
management conference/OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service on February 8,
2024.
ANALYSIS
French
moves for a court order specially setting the present action for trial pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 36. For the following reasons, the court DENIES French’s motion.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 36 establishes four grounds upon which trial
preference can be obtained. First, the court must grant a motion for preference
in a civil action when it is brought by a party who is over seventy years of
age, has a substantial interest in the action, and has health issues that require
preference “to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 39, subd. (a).) Second, “[a] civil action to recover
damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference
upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless
the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case
as a whole.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)
Third,
“[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a motion for preference that is
accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation that concludes that
one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition raising substantial
medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months, and that satisfies
the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) Fourth and last, “[n]otwithstanding
any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for
preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the
interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)
Discussion
In
this case, French argues for trial preference pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (d). In support of French’s motion, French
relies on the declaration of Shahab Attarchi, M.D. In that declaration, Dr.
Attarchi opines that French’s medical conditions have led to the rapid
deterioration of French’s health and that there is “substantial medical doubt
that [French] has more than six months to live.” (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶ 6.) Dr.
Attarchi bases this opinion on the fact that French has been receiving long
term antibiotic treatment for a spinal infection and opines that this long-term
use of antibiotics will make it difficult for physicians to treat future
infections. (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶ 8.) Dr. Attarchi also notes that French’s
use of a Foley catheter creates a high risk of urinary tract infections and
that any infection places French at high risk of sepsis and death. (Dr.
Attarchi Decl., ¶ 8.) Additionally, Dr. Attarchi notes French is at a high risk
of death due to poorly managed type II diabetes, a history of pulmonary
embolism, morbid obesity, and vascular disease that could result in fatal blood
clots. (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶ 8.)
In
response, Kindred SGV argues Dr. Attarchi failed to provide reasoned
explanations for this opinion because Dr. Attarchi does not discuss French’s
receipt of or response to medical treatments for these health issues. The court
agrees.
While
Dr. Attarchi provided an overview of French’s comorbidities and concludes
French is in “significant ill health,” Dr. Attarchi failed to explain how
French’s health is deteriorating to the point that there is substantial medical
doubt regarding French’s survival beyond six months. (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶
7-8.) The court also notes Dr. Attarchi’s declaration repeats the same findings
on an additional page which gives the misleading impression that the
declaration is more substantial and lengthier than it is. Thus, the court finds
French failed to provide clear and convincing evidence that establishes substantial
medical doubt of French’s survival beyond six months.
Accordingly,
in exercise of the court’s discretion, French’s motion is DENIED
without prejudice.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, French’s
motion for trial preference is DENIED without prejudice.
