

Hearing
Date:             January 18, 2024
Case
Name:                Jones v. Tesla,
Inc.
Case
No.:                    23STCV16119
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Tesla, Inc.

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Eddie Jones

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted as to
Defendants Tesla, Inc. and Defendant Jacki Charlberg; the
matter is stayed pending resolution of arbitration. 

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Eddie Jones (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on July
11, 2023, alleging racial
discrimination, failure to provide reasonable accommodations, failure to engage
in the interactive process, and hostile work environment, as well as wrongful
termination in violation of public policy, and other claims against his former
employer, Defendant Tesla,
Inc., Tesla Motors, Inc., Tesla Warehouse, and Jacki Charlberg.
 
            On
September 15, 2023, Defendant Tesla, Inc. moved to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’
arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement is unenforceable based on unconscionability. Tesla, Inc. filed a
reply. 
 
            Defendant
Jacki Charlberg filed a joinder to Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s motion to compel
arbitration. 
 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is granted as to Defendants Tesla, Inc. and Defendant Jacki Charlberg. The matter
is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
            Defendant’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibits A-X is denied as irrelevant. Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice Exhibits A-B is denied as irrelevant. Defendant’s reply
request for judicial notice of Exhibit 1 is denied as irrelevant. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the matter while the
arbitration is pending.
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement:
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement between the
parties. In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant
submits evidence that, on September 10, 2020, Defendant sent Plaintiff
an email containing
a link to an employment offer letter (Offer Letter). (Flesch
Decl., ¶ 8.) The Offer
Letter included an arbitration provision. (Flesch Decl., Ex. A.) Specifically, the
arbitration provision stated: “[A]ny and all disputes, claims, or causes of
action, in law or equity, arising from or relating to your employment, or the
termination of your employment, will be resolved, to the fullest extent
permitted by law by final, binding and private arbitration in your city and
state of employment conducted by the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation
Services/Endispute, Inc. (“JAMS”), or its successors, under the then current
rules of JAMS for employment disputes . . ..” (Flesch Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Plaintiff accepted Tesla’s offer of
employment that same day, by electronically signing the Offer Letter. (Flesch
Decl., ¶¶ 10-12, Exs. A (offer letter signed by Plaintiff) and B (email
confirming Plaintiff’s electronic signature of offer letter). Plaintiff began
his employment on September 14, 2020 as a Production Associate. (Flesch Decl.,
¶ 12.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to meet its burden to show
that Plaintiff signed the Offer Letter. Plaintiff further avers that he does
“not even recall or remember electronically signing the Offer Letter.” (Jones
Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
            Civil
Code section 1633.9, subdivision (a), governs the authentication of electronic
signatures. It provides that an electronic signature may be attributed to a
person if “it was the act of the person.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a).)
Further, “[t]he act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a
showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the
person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.” (Ibid.) 
 
“For
example, a party may establish that the electronic signature was “the act of
the person” by presenting evidence that a unique login and password known only
to that person was required to affix the electronic signature, along with
evidence detailing the procedures the person had to follow to electronically
sign the document and the accompanying security precautions.” (Bannister v.
Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545.)
            In
this case, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s electronic system did not require any individual
utilizing the signing system to create a username or password and did not
reflect the IP address of the location where the Offer Letter was allegedly
signed. (Flesch Decl. ¶10, Ex. A.)
 
            The
Court finds Defendant has met its burden of authenticating the electronic
signature. Here, Defendant submits adequate evidence of the process by which Plaintiff
applied for employment with Tesla and received and signed the Agreement.
Defendant’s evidence shows that Defendant employed Avature to manage and track
candidate offer letters and applications executed through the system. (Flesch Decl., ¶ 3.) The employment application
required the applicant to create his or her own personal, secure profile
through the Tesla Careers website by providing his or her first name, last
name, and personal email address. (Flesch Decl., ¶ 4.) Any communications
generated thereafter were directed by Avature’s secure system to the email
address used to create the profile. (Flesch Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
            Perhaps
most importantly, Defendant’s evidence shows that:
 
“[t]he Avature system contained
security measures so that access to the link was restricted to the applicant,
which ensured that other Tesla employees could not access the applicant’s offer letter, except for a small group
of administrative employees for the purpose of troubleshooting any technical
issues with the link. No one from Tesla’s Recruiting Operations, Human
Resources, Legal, or any of the applicant’s managers were able to access the link,
even if they pulled up the email sent to the applicant.” (Flesch Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Thus, the
evidence shows that this was not a case in which Plaintiff presented evidence
that another person could have caused his electronic signature to appear on the
arbitration agreement. 
 
For
instance, in Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
541, 544–545 —a case that also involved an online onboarding process—plaintiff
Bannister submitted evidence that a human resources manager Matson visited the
facility where Bannister worked and completed the onboarding process and
arbitration agreement for her by asking for the necessary information without
showing Bannister what was on the computer. (Id. at pp. 546–547.)
Bannister also presented evidence that Matson completed the onboarding process
for other employees remotely and without their participation. (Id. at p.
547.) 
 
In affirming
the denial of the motion to compel arbitration, the court of appeal concluded that
this was “a classic example of a trial court drawing a conclusion from
conflicting evidence.” (Id. at p. 545.) That is, the trial court
disbelieved Matson's account of the onboarding process and instead credited
Bannister's evidence that Matson completed the onboarding process for her. (Id.
at p. 548.) 
There is no
similar conflict in the record here. Plaintiff's declaration contains no
suggestion that any other human resources personnel completed his onboarding
documents (or the onboarding documents for other employees without their
knowing participation). Rather, Plaintiff only speculates that it is
theoretically possible someone could have signed for him. He does not otherwise
address in his declaration how he accepted the offer of employment with Tesla. 
 
Nor is the
fact that Avature’s
system did not require a username or password dispositive. By statute,
an electronic signature may be authenticated “in any manner, including
a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the
person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a) [italics added].) Thus, while a
showing of the efficacy of document security protocols is one way of
demonstrating authentication, such a showing is not required. 
 
Further, as
discussed above, the evidence here shows that only a limited number of people have
access to the
applicant’s offer letter – which is sufficient to show “the efficacy
of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which the
electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” 
 
            Lastly,
Plaintiff does not dispute signing
the Offer Letter; he only states he does not recall signing it. 


Thus, the
Court finds that Defendant’s evidence is sufficient to authenticate the electronic
signature as “the act of” Plaintiff. Plaintiff does not submit conflicting
evidence. Defendant has carried its burden of demonstrating the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement:
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they
need not be present in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are
evaluated on ‘ “sliding scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to’ conclude that the term is unenforceable. [Citation.]
Conversely, the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the
less substantive unfairness is required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive
fairness ‘must be considered in light of any procedural unconscionability’ in
its making. [Citation.] ‘The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms
of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances,
that a court should withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff first
argues the accepted Offer Letter is procedurally unconscionable because the arbitration
provision was a condition of employment and offered on a take-it-or leave it
basis. That
is, Plaintiff had no ability to negotiate the terms of the Agreement, and
Defendant made no effort to explain its terms to Plaintiff. (Jones Dec., ¶¶ 1-5.)
In sum, Plaintiff could either sign the Agreement or find another job.
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that he did not know what “arbitration” was; that is, he did not
realize that agreeing to arbitration meant that he was giving up his right to a
jury, and no one explained this to him. (Jones Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
            Finally, Plaintiff
contends the arbitration provision was “buried” within the Offer Letter.
Plaintiff asserts that he was not informed that the Offer Letter contained an
arbitration provision, nor did anyone or any document indicate that by signing
the Offer Letter, he was giving up his right to a trial by jury. (Jones Decl.,
¶ 3)
 
            Given the
take it or leave it nature of the contract, the arbitration agreement suffers
from some minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. It is an
adhesive contract, as are most employment agreements; “few employees are in a
position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 115.) 
 
However, Plaintiff’s purported
failure to understand the terms of the arbitration provision does not add to
the procedural unconscionability of the Offer Letter. (Gutierrez v.
Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 88 [“[S]imply because a
provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or understood by the
nondrafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.”].) Further,
although the arbitration agreement was not overly conspicuous in the Offer
Letter (it was not bolded or underlined), it was also not buried in a long
document, in a smaller font, or otherwise hidden. (Armendariz, at p. 114
[“Surprise” is defined as “the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms
of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party
seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”].)
 
            There
is a small degree of procedural unconscionability arising from the inception of
the arbitration agreement. 
 
             Plaintiff contends the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because, when read with
the Tesla, Inc. Employee Non-Disclosure and Inventions Assignment Agreement (PIIA),
it creates a one-sided framework that provides Tesla with all the advantages of
suing in court while limiting Plaintiff to suing in arbitration. In making this
argument, Plaintiff relies on the holdings in two superior court cases involving
similar Offer Letters and PIIAs. (Opp., p. 5, fn. 3 [RJN Exs. A [Barraza
v. Tesla, Inc., dated May 22, 2022 in the Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, Case No. 21CV002714], B [Hollocks
v. Tesla, Inc., dated October 28, 2020 in the
Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, Case No. 20STCP00884]].)
 
“While a contract ‘ “ ‘can provide a
“margin of safety” that provides the party with superior bargaining strength a
type of extra protection for which it has a legitimate commercial need without
being unconscionable’ ” ’ [citation],” an arbitration agreement's carve-out for
an employer’s claims that lacks any justification and is “not limited to
provisional judicial remedies” is substantively unconscionable. (Farrar v.
Direct Commerce, Inc. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1257, 1263, 1273; Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436, 447 [“ ‘ “[U]nconscionability turns not
only on a ‘one-sided’ result, but also on an absence of ‘justification’ for it
....” ’ ”].)
 
            In response,
Defendant argues that the cases cited are not controlling on this Court.
Defendant is correct. Further, as noted in the reply, these superior court cases
are distinguishable. Specifically, in both Hollocks and Barraza,
the arbitration agreements at issue contained the following term: 
 
“Notwithstanding the foregoing, you
and Tesla each have the right to resolve any issue or dispute arising under the
Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement by Court action instead of
arbitration.” (Lopez Reply Decl., Exs. B (Hollocks arbitration agreement) and C
(Barraza arbitration agreement).) 
 
            In this
case, the PIIA at issue here is a separate agreement requiring a separate signature.
Moreover, the PIIA is neither mentioned, referenced, incorporated in, or
attached to the Offer Letter.   
 
            Lastly, Plaintiff’s
reliance on the holding in Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 436 to
suggest a separate contract agreement can be considered in determining the unconscionability
of an arbitration agreement is not well taken as the facts in that case are
distinguishable. That is, the arbitration agreement in Lange – unlike
the Offer Letter here — attached and incorporated by reference the unconscionable
Employee
Proprietary Information, Confidentiality, Intellectual Property and
Non-Solicitation Agreement. (Lange v. Monster Energy
Company, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at 443.) 
 
            Plaintiff has not provided any legal authority indicating
the Court must consider this separate contract when determining the substantive
unconscionability of this Offer Letter. Thus, Plaintiff has not demonstrated the existence of any substantive
unconscionability in the Offer Letter. 
 
Therefore, even if the Offer Letter
contains some degree of procedural unconscionability, the absence of substantive
unconscionability is fatal Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument. Defendant
has met its burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid, enforceable
Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Joinder of Jacki Charlberg:
 
            In the
moving papers, Defendant Tesla argues that Defendant Jacki Charlberg should be permitted
to enforce the arbitration agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel.
Defendant Jacki Charlberg joins the motion. 
 
            The
estoppel exception applies when a non-signatory to a contract containing an
arbitration clause “accepts the benefits under the contract” or “when the causes of action against the non-signatory are
‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract
obligations.” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 262, 271-272.)
 
            When, as
here, a plaintiff sues a non-signatory as an agent of a signatory, the
non-signatory may enforce the arbitration agreement. (Thomas v. Westlake
(2012) 204 Cal. App. 4th 605, 614-615 [“[A] plaintiff's allegations of an
agency relationship among defendants is sufficient to allow the alleged agents
to invoke the benefit of an arbitration agreement executed by their principal
even though the agents are not parties to the agreement.”].)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not address this argument or otherwise dispute that
Defendant Jacki Charlberg may enforce the arbitration provision in the Offer
Letter. 
 
            Defendant Carlsberg
may enforce the arbitration provision in the Offer Letter as an alleged agent
of Tesla. (Compl., ¶ 6.) 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration as to Defendants Tesla, Inc. and Defendant Jacki Charlberg. The motion to compel arbitration is granted as to
Plaintiff’s claims; the matter will be stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration. 
 