

Hearing Date:             January
18, 2024
Case Name:                Dashtizadeh v. Consumer 2.0,
Inc.
Case No.:                    23STCV23666
Matter:                        Application
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
Moving Parties:          Defendant Consumer 2.0, Inc.
Responding Party:      Unopposed

Tentative Ruling:      The
Court grants the Applications to be admitted pro hac vice. 
 

 
            Defendant
Consumer 2.0, Inc. moves for an order granting the admission of Timothy Hutchinson and John V. Matson to appear on its
behalf pro hac vice. The Court grants the applications. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
            An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee.  The attorney cannot be a resident
of California, employed in the state, or regularly engage in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the state. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a)(1)-(3), (c)(1).) 
 
            The
written application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(1)-(6).) 
 
Discussion
 
            The
provided declarations comply with the California Rule of Court 9.40(d)(1)-(6). Hutchinson
and Matson both represent that they have not regularly engaged in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in California. (Hutchinson Decl., ¶
2; Matson Decl., ¶ 2.) Further, Hutchinson and Matson both reside and work in Nebraska.
(Hutchinson Decl., ¶ 2; Matson Decl., ¶ 2.)
Finally, neither attorney has ever been suspended or disbarred in any court and
neither has appeared pro hac vice in any other California-based lawsuits
in the preceding two years. (Hutchinson Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Matson Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
            Both
attorneys submit a copy of the receipt for the $50.00 check submitted to the
State Bar of California for the pro hac vice fee. (Hutchinson Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. B;
Matson Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. B.)  
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants the Application of counsel, Timothy Hutchinson and John V.
Matson, to appear on behalf of Defendant pro hac vice. 