  Case Number:  19STCV45677    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  49 Motion Picture Studio Grips, Local 80, I.A.T.S.E v. TSC Enterprises, LLC, et al.MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM JUDGMENT MOVING PARTY: Defendants Big It, Inc., and Timothy S. CormierRESPONDING PARTY(S): Eugene Kim (judgment creditor/assignee)STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiff Motion Picture Studio Grips, Local 80, I.A.T.S.E., filed this action against Defendants TSC Enterprises, LLC, Big It, Inc., and Timothy Cormier. Plaintiff alleges it entered into a Software Development Agreement with Defendants, who would develop a database program for Plaintiff’s operations. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants provided faulty software and failed to comply with the terms of the Agreement. Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) violation of California Computer Data Access and Fraud Act, (3) conversion, and (4) Unfair Business Practices.On April 10, 2020, the clerk entered Defendants’ defaults. On July 29, 2020, the court entered a default judgment against Defendants in the amount of $166,966.84. On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff assigned the judgment to Eugene Kim, who is now the judgment creditor. Defendants now move for relief from the defaults and default judgment. Judgment Creditor Eugene Kim opposed.TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants’ Motion for Relief from Judgment is DENIED.Kim is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion for Relief From JudgmentDefendants move to set aside the defaults and default judgment entered against them in this matter. Defendants moved for relief based on Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d), section 473(b), or section 473.5.  Each is addressed in turn.A. Relief Under CCP § 473(d)Defendants first move for relief under CCP section 473(d), contending the judgment is void due to improper service. Section 473(d) provides that “[t]he court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.” (§ 473(d).) “[I]nclusion of the word “may” in the language of section 473, subdivision (d) makes it clear that a trial court retains discretion to grant or deny a motion to set aside a void judgment. [Citation.] However, the trial court has no statutory power under section 473, subdivision (d) to set aside a judgment that is not void.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal. App. 5th 358, 369.)  “Generally, defendants have six months from entry of judgment to move to vacate. [Citation.] But, if ‘the judgment is void on its face, then the six month limit set by section 473 to make other motions to vacate a judgment does not apply.”  [Citation.] (Id. 369-70.)  “A judgment ‘is considered void on its face only when the invalidity is apparent from an inspection of the judgment roll or court record without consideration of extrinsic evidence.’ [Citation.] When a default judgment has been taken, the judgment roll consists of ‘the summons, with the affidavit or proof of service; the complaint; the request for entry of default ..., and a copy of the judgment.’ (§ 670, subd. (a).) If the invalidity can be shown only through consideration of extrinsic evidence, such as declarations or testimony, the order/judgment is not void on its face.” [Citation.] (Id. at 370.) “To establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is essential; if a default judgment was entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons as required by statute, the judgment is void, as the court lacked jurisdiction in a fundamental sense over the party and lacked authority to enter judgment.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal. App. 5th 358, 370.)The court entered the default judgment on July 29, 2020. Defendants filed this motion to set aside the judgment on August 20, 2024—over four years later, and well past the six-month deadline. Therefore, to receive relief at this stage, the judgment must be void on its face. “To establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is essential; if a default judgment was entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons as required by statute, the judgment is void, as the court lacked jurisdiction in a fundamental sense over the party and lacked authority to enter judgment.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal. App. 5th 358, 370.) A plaintiff bears “the burden of showing facts requisite to a valid service. (Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal. App. 4th 1154, 1163.) “The filing of a proof of service declaration ordinarily creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper, but only if the service declaration “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id.)CCP section 415.20(b) provides for substitute service on an individual.  As relevant here:(b) If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.(CCP § 415.20(b).)CCP Section 415.20(a) provides for substitute service on an entity.  As relevant here:In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.(CCP § 415.20(a).)The Proofs of service filed in this matter reflect substitute service on each Defendant at 11100 Sepulveda Boulevard, Suite 8, Mission Hills, CA 90502. (See 04/09/2020 Proofs of Service.) The Proofs of Service state that on February 7, 2020, the process server left the summons, complaint, and other documents with “Erick Garcia, Store Manager, Mail Fast USA, a Commercial Mail Receiving Agency (service pursuant to CCP 415.20 & BPC 17538.5).” (Id.) The process server included a Declaration of Diligence attesting to have attempted to serve Defendants at four different addresses. The Declaration also states that the Sepulveda Boulevard address “corresponds to a business by the name of ‘Mail Fast USA’.” (Id.) There, the process server “spoke with Ertick Garcia, Store Manager who stated the subject was not in, but has a mailbox at this location.” (Id.) The process server exercised reasonable diligence in attempting to serve Defendants. “ ‘Ordinarily, ... two or three attempts at personal service at a proper place should fully satisfy the requirement of reasonable diligence and allow substituted service to be made.’ [Citation.]” (Espindola v. Nunez (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1389, 1392.) Therefore, substitute service was available here. In support of relief, Defendants argue that substitute service on Defendant Cormier was ineffective because service at Mail Fast USA did not comply with the statutory service requirements for substitute service. Defendants also assert that the process server mailed the documents to an address using the incorrect zip code. As to service on entity Defendant Big It, Defendants argue that service was ineffective because it “failed to comply with the strict requirements of the code and Business and Professions Code § 17538.5(d) associated.” (Mtn. 4: 7-8.) Judgment Creditor Kim, in pro per, submitted three filings in opposition: A declaration and duplicate copies of Objections to the Declaration of Timothy S. Cormier. The opposition did not include a memorandum of points and authorities. The absence of the memorandum appears in error given that Kim references an opposition in the filings that were received from this court and filed the same objections twice. Be that as it may, Kim’s position is clear. He maintains that the request for relief is untimely, that the analysis must be limited to the judgment roll, and that Defendants had actual notice of the action. (See Objections to the Declaration of Timothy S. Cormer at 1: 25-28.) As will be explained here, these points are well-taken. Under CCP section 415.20(c), “if the only address reasonably known for the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained through a commercial mail receiving agency, service of process may be effected on the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency in the manner described in subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5 of the Business and Professions Code.” Business and Professions Code section 17538.5, subdivision (d)(1) provides in pertinent part that “[e]very person receiving private mailbox receiving service from a CMRA [ (commercial mail receiving agency) ] in this state shall be required to sign an agreement, ... which authorizes the CMRA owner or operator to act as agent for service of process for the mail receiving service customer. Every CMRA owner or operator shall be required to accept service of process for and on behalf of any of their mail receiving service customers....” The law requires the CMRA to place a notice or copy of the documents in the customer's mailbox within 48 hours and to send the documents by first-class mail within five days after receipt to the customer's address. (Id.; see also CCP § 415.20, subd. (c).)Here, based on Plaintiff’s diligence in attempting to serve Plaintiff at four different address to no avail, it appears that the only address reasonably known was the mailbox at the commercial mail receiving agency. Therefore, substitute service under section 17538.5 was available.In addition, is not apparent from the judgment roll that service under CCP section 17538.5 was ineffective. The court is unaware of any authority holding that the requirements to perfect service under section 17538.5(d)—e.g. that the CMRA place a copy of the documents in the customer’s mailbox within 48 hours and mail the documents within 5-days—need to appear on the Proof of Service or elsewhere in the judgment roll. Therefore, the absence of these steps in the judgment roll does not render the judgment void on its face. But even assuming, in the alternative, that the judgment is void on its face, Defendants have not demonstrated that the judgment should be set aside. Under section 473(d), the “trial court retains discretion to grant or deny a motion to set aside a void judgment.” (Kremerman, supra, 71 Cal. App. 5th at 369.) Crucially, Defendant Cormier appears to admit that he had actual notice of the action against him before the default judgment was entered in 2020. He states in his declaration that he “reasonably believed that [he] had no obligation to defend this action because the service of process was not proper, and therefore did not impose a legal duty upon [him] to respond or defend.” (Cormier Decl. ¶ 4.) In other words, Defendants unilaterally elected not to defend this action on the assumption that service was improper. It was only four years after judgment was entered that they attempted to set aside the default. This court is mindful that the “law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits.” (Huh v. Wang (2008) 158 Cal. App. 4th 1406, 1419.) But under the current circumstances, that policy must give way to the “public policy in favor of finality of judgments.” (IRMO Kieturakis (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 56, 90, quoting In re Marriage of Stevenot (1984) 154 Cal. App. 3d 1051, 1071.) Therefore, the court concludes that relief under section 473(d) is not warranted here.B. Relief Under CCP § 473(b)Defendants also move to set aside the judgment under CCP § 473(b).  Under the discretionary provisions of that section, the court “may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 473(b).) To obtain relief under this provision, the application for relief must be made “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding.” (Ibid.) This type of application must also be “accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein.” (Ibid.)  Because a motion under § 473(b) must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,” Plaintiffs’ motion is untimely by nearly three-and-a-half years. Therefore, section 473(b) relief does not apply.C. Relief Under CCP § 473.5 Finally, Defendants also move under Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5.  Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5 subdivision (a) provides:When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.As discussed, relief under this section is unavailable because Defendant Cormier admits that he had notice of the action before the default judgment was entered. Despite that notice, Defendants elected not to defend the action on the belief that service was improper. Relief under this section is also untimely. Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Relief from Judgment is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 17, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.