 Case Number:  20STCV48450    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lucky International Technology, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV48450




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Angelina Leo, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 5, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Leave to Amend
Cross-Complaint;
Motion to Strike
 
T/R:     CROSS-COMPLAINANTS' MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
AMEND IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition. 
 
A. Cross-Complainants’ Motion for Leave
to File a First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
It is not an abuse of discretion of the court
to grant the motion unless there is a “showing that actual unfairness or
obvious prejudice has resulted from the allowance of such an amendment”.  (Posz v. Burchell (1962) 209
Cal.App.2d 324, 334.)  “Counsel on the
firing line in an actual trial must be prepared for surprises, including
requests for amendments of pleading.”  (Ibid.)  Absent a showing of prejudice, delay alone is
insufficient grounds for denial.  (See
Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 558, 564–65.)
Cross-Complainants move for leave to file a
first amended cross-complaint to correct a Cross-Defendant's name and to add
four causes of action for breach of written agreement, breach of fiduciary
duty, unpaid wages, and negligent misrepresentation. All causes of action,
except for unpaid wages, arise from the same underlying facts as the original
cross-complaint.
In opposition, Cross-Defendants assert
Cross-Complainants have unduly delayed in seeking amendment and argue they will
be prejudiced by the amendment.
The Court finds amendment is in the interests
of justice.  The additional causes of
action arise from the same underlying facts central to this action.
Cross-Complainants' motion is GRANTED.
B. Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Answer and
Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant W1’s
cross-complaint and answer to the complaint on the ground that it is an
unrepresented corporation. W1 filed a substitution of attorney on September 27,
2023; W1 is now represented by counsel. 
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.