 Case Number:  22STCV28450    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  28 


Having
  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
  August 30, 2022, Plaintiff Krystal Grantham (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
  against Defendants 7-Eleven, Inc., Forchun Investments, Inc., and Does 1-100
  for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
  December 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, Sean F. Salamati, filed a motion to
  be relieved as counsel to be heard on January 31, 2024. 
Trial
  is currently scheduled for February 27, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
  counsel, Sean F. Salamati, Esq., requests to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
  counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
  client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
  Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
  memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied
  by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in general
  terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
  relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is
  brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section
  284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration,
  and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties
  who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,
  electronic service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the
  notice is served on the client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section
  1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A)   The
  service address is the current residence or business address of the client;
  or 
“(B)   The
  service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
  and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after
  making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the
  motion to be relieved. 
“(2)  If the
  notice is served on the client by electronic service under Code of Civil
  Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration
  stating that the electronic service address is the client's current
  electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
  address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
  relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
  known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
  was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
  current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
  applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be
  prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
  Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving
  papers. The order must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or
  proceeding, including the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is
  presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify the date in the order.
  After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the
  client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. The court may delay
  the effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a
  copy of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
  3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel
  has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided
  a declaration stating that, “[u]nfortunately, attorney/client relations have
  broke[n] down to the point where I am no longer able to communicate and/or
  effectively represent Krystal Grantham.”  Counsel submitted proof of service on Plaintiff,
  the only party who has appeared in the case. 
The
  Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
  Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiff’s counsel to be relieved as counsel.
Counsel will be relieved upon filing proof of
  service on the client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved
  as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053). 
Counsel
  is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
  is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
  five days. 