 Case Number:  23STCV11728    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 24, 2023, Plaintiff Krystelle Lumantas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Kostiantyn Stoliar (“Stoliar”), Berlin Verali Marroquin
(“Marroquin”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort. 
On
July 17, 2023, Marroquin filed an answer. On July 25, 2023, Marroquin filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Plaintiff, Stoliar, and Moes 1-50 for negligence. On
October 12, 2023, Stoliar filed an answer to Marroquin’s cross-complaint. On
October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an answer to Marroquin’s cross-complaint. 
On
July 17, 2023, Stoliar filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Marroquin and Roes 1-10 for indemnification, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief. On August 30, 2023, Marroquin filed an answer to
Stoliar’s cross-complaint. 
On
October 12, 2023, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s complaint with prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
January 3, 2024, Marroquin filed a motion for determination of good faith settlement
to be heard on January 31, 2024.  No
opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 20, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Marroquin
requests that the Court find the settlement was made in good faith. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2), states that “a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order. The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis,
terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed
order shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days
of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days
of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest
the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a
motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed
order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the
settlement. . . .” 
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).) 
          In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt), the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
must consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on January 9, 2023, at the intersection of North Vermont
Street and Clinton Street in Los Angeles, California, Stoliar and Marroquin
negligently operated, owned, or entrusted a motor vehicle, causing Plaintiff to
suffer injuries and damage. 
B.   Recovery and proportionate liability 
Plaintiff
and Marroquin have agreed to settle the case for $15,000.00. Plaintiff has
asserted $14,951.39 in special damages, including $11,620.00 in medical damages
and $3,331.39 in past lost income. Plaintiff has stated she is uncertain about
future income loss. 
The
proposed settlement exceeds the known special damages of $14,951.39. Stoliar has
agreed to settle with Plaintiff for the same amount. This appears to be a fair
result. 
C.   Allocation of settlement 
The
total settlement will be paid to Plaintiff. 
D.   Financial considerations 
$15,000.00
is Marroquin’s entire auto policy limit.  Marroquin did not provide information about
other assets. 
E.   Collusion or fraud 
The
Court has seen no evidence of collusion or fraud. 
F.    Weighing the Tech-Bilt factors 
Based
on the Tech-Bilt factors discussed above, and in the absence of any motion to
contest the good faith of the settlement, the Court finds the proposed
settlement was made in good faith.  The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for a determination that the settlement between Plaintiff
Krystelle Lumantas and Defendant Berlin Verali
Marroquin was made in good faith. The Court dismisses all pending and future
claims against Defendant Berlin Verali Marroquin by the parties served with
this motion (to the extent those claims arise from the facts giving rise to
this case), including cross-complaints for equitable indemnity. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 