 Case Number:  22STCV28420    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  27, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28420




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Answer at Deposition and Order for Manner of Resuming Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Martha Cruz Aguilar Cardenas




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jonathan Anthony Ayala 



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
April 24, 2023, counsel for Plaintiff Martha Cruz Aguilar Cardenas
(“Plaintiff”) took the remote videotaped deposition of Defendant Jonathan
Anthony Ayala (“Defendant”). Around 11 a.m., which counsel states was a little
more than an hour into the deposition, the connection froze and the deposition
was paused for technical difficulties. (Motion at pg. 3; Reply at Exh. 1, pg.
47.) Around 11:46, the court reporter indicated likely difficulty with taking
down the record. (Id. at pg. 49.) Around 11:51, the defendant asked for
a break to find another location, given that he was outside at his school. (Id.
at pg. 52.) The parties went off the record until 11:59 at the request of the
witness. (Id. at pg. 53.) Around 12:01, the connection froze again. (Id.
at pg. 54.) Around 12:03, the connection froze again. (Id. at pg. 55.)
Plaintiff then suspended the deposition in order to seek a protective order and
a motion to compel a nonverbal response regarding where on the map the accident
occurred, and counsel’s request that the witness place an x on the map.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Per Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.610, “[o]nce a party has taken the deposition
of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the
party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition
notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that
deponent. Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good cause shown, the court may
grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent
of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition
be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420 permits a party to move for a protective
order. “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to,
one or more of the following directions: …(4) That the deposition be taken at a
place other than that specified in the deposition notice, if it is within a
distance permitted [by the Code]. (5) That the deposition be taken only on
certain specified terms and conditions. …” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b)(4), (5).)
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.310 provides that “[a]t the election of the
deponent or the deposing party, the deposition officer may attend the
deposition at a different location than the deponent via remote means. A
deponent is not required to be physically present with the deposition officer
when being sworn in at the time of the deposition. (b) Subject to Section
2024.420, any party or attorney of record may, but is not required to, be
physically present at the deposition at the location of the deponent….” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.310(a), (b).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff moves for an order that Defendant complete the deposition in person
and be compelled to provide a nonverbal answer by placing an x on a map to
indicate where the accident happened. Whether styled as a motion for protective
order or a motion for a second deposition, the Court finds good cause to order
Defendant to appear at a deposition in person at a location mutually agreeable
to the parties. As an initial matter, although Defendant argues that the
deposition was noticed by Plaintiff as remote deposition, and the Court notes
that section 2025.310 allows for either the deponent or the deposing party to
elect, here the Court finds that a continued deposition with similar ongoing
interruptions due to connection issues would constitute an unwarranted
annoyance and would result in undue burden and expense. Moreover, as the Court
understands the parties’ briefing, the deposition was not completed and
consisted of about 2 hours of testimony (regardless of the issue of the map). To
the extent that further questioning is necessary, Defendant provides no
authority for the argument that since he placed an x on the map after the first
deposition and off camera, he should not be compelled to do so again at a
continued or second deposition. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to compel. (See Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 16
Cal.4th 1101, 1107 (“we conclude that Code of Civil Procedure section 2025,
subdivision (o) [the predecessor to section 2025.480(a)], should be construed
to include nonverbal as well as verbal responses at a videotaped
deposition—which may require a deponent to perform a demonstration or
reenactment at the request of a party.”).)
 
            Defendant
argues that he offered to attend a second deposition with a stable internet
connection. (Opposition at pg. 11.) Accordingly, the Court finds that there was
a legitimate dispute between the parties and finds that sanctions are not
warranted. The Court reminds both parties of their responsibilities of civility
toward each other.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel the in-person
deposition of Defendant and motion to compel a nonverbal answer regarding the
placement on the map of the location of the accident.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 