 Case Number:  20STCV48806    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  27, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV48806




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Advance or Specially Set Hearing Dates on Motions to Compel Supplemental
  Responses




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  (Lewis Edward Thompson)



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) moves
for an order advancing the hearing dates on three motions to compel
supplemental responses (document requests, form interrogatories, and special
interrogatories) from Plaintiff Lewis Edward Thompson (“Plaintiff”). On June
13, 2023, the parties submitted a stipulation to continue trial to April 5,
2023 on the grounds that the parties have an October 3, 2023 mediation date,
pending motions to compel set to be heard on March 11, 2024, and an injury of
defense counsel which limits his ability to endure a full trial day. The
stipulation was rejected because the parties did not set forth sufficient good
cause to continue to April 2024, because Defendant may seek to have the
hearings on motions to compel advanced to an earlier date either before or
shortly after the pending mediation in October. The motions to compel seek responses
to supplemental interrogatories (form and special) and to document requests,
for Plaintiff to supplement responses by providing any later acquired
information. The notices of motion do not seek sanctions.
 
            Trial
is currently set for November 3, 2023, with a Final Status Conference date of
October 19, 2023.
 
DISCUSSION
 
The Court has reviewed the motions to compel. To the extent the parties
are able and agree to proceed with the motions to compel at the hearing today,
the Court is amenable to hearing any opposition and reply orally at the
hearing. To the extent the parties do not agree, the Court advances the motions
as follows:
 
The hearing on the Motions to Compel Supplemental Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demands for Production of
Documents is advanced to October 13, 2023 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32.
 
All oppositions, if any, are due by October 2, 2023. All replies, if any,
are by October 6, 2023.
 
The hearing on the motions currently set for March 11, 2024 are advanced
and vacated. The hearings on the motions to specially set the motions set for September
28, 2023 are advanced and vacated.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 