  Case Number:  19STCV38052    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  27, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV38052




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Los Angeles, acting by
  and through the Department of Water and Power 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Jason Abbott and Roxanne Abbott 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 22, 2019, Plaintiffs Jason Abbott and Roxanne Abbott
(Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants the City of Los Angeles,
acting by and through the Department of Water and Power (LADWP), City of
Bishop, and County of Inyo, and Does 1 to 45, for the death of their son,
decedent Dutch Benjamin Abbott, after he came into contact with a carnivorous Naegleria
fowleri amoeba in a man-made water pond. On January 8, 2021, LADWP filed an
answer. The complaint alleges three causes of action: (1) statutory
liability/dangerous condition on public property; (2) statutory liability/
breach of mandatory duties; and (3) negligence. 
 
LADWP now moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and
second causes of action. Plaintiffs and Defendant Brown’s Supply, Inc. (Brown)
opposes. LADWP replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                           
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                         
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or
concessions.” (Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co.
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
LADWP’s requests for judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(h) regarding Exhibits A, B, C, D, E, and F are denied. 
 
Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice regarding Exhibit A,
Plaintiffs’ Complaint, and Exhibit B, Plaintiff’s Substitution of Doe 31, are
granted pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d). 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, there is no declaration by
the moving party that a meet and confer occurred prior to filing this motion. However,
a determination that the meet and confer process is insufficient does not
constitute grounds to grant or deny a motion for judgment on the pleadings.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
The complaint alleges the following with regard to the first cause of
action pursuant to Government Code section 835: the man-made water ponds (“Hot
Ditch”) are owned, operated, and controlled by LADWP. (Compl. ¶ 16.) The Hot
Ditch was in a dangerous condition, including the presence of Naegleria
fowleri, which created a substantial risk of injury when used with due
care. (Id. ¶ 17.) Due to an infection caused by the Naegleria fowleri,
decedent is alleged to have died from primary amoebic meningoencephalitis. (Id.
¶ 16.) Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition and would have been discovered it by a reasonably adequate inspection
system. (Id. ¶ 20-21.) Defendants failed to take appropriate corrective
action, including failing to monitor the water, failing to train, and failing
to warn. (Id. ¶ 22.) Defendants created or allowed to be created a
dangerous condition under Government Code section 835. (Id. ¶ 24, 26.)
The dangerous conditions were directly attributable to negligent and wrongful
acts of Defendants’ employees. (Id. ¶ 28.) 
 
The complaint alleges the following with regard to the second cause of
action pursuant to Government Code section 815.6: Defendants “had duties,
including mandatory duties with respect to safety and public health at the
Property and/or adjacent property. Defendants breached their mandatory and
other independent duties of care owed to Decedent Dutch by, among other things…”
(Complaint ¶ 34.) No mandatory duties are specified.
 
LADWP argues that both causes of action are barred by California
Government Code section 855.4. The Court agrees and therefore need not reach
LADWP’s other arguments that all causes of action are barred by California
Government Code section 831.2,[1] or
that the second cause of action fails to plead any mandatory duties owed by
Defendant.
 
 Government Code section 855.4
states:
 
“(a) Neither a public entity nor a public employee is liable for an
injury resulting from the decision to perform or not to perform any act to
promote the public health of the community by preventing disease or controlling
the communication of disease within the community if the decision whether the
act was or was not to be performed was the result of the exercise of discretion
vested in the public entity or the public employee, whether or not such
discretion be abused.
 
“(b) Neither a public entity nor a public employee is liable for an
injury caused by an act or omission in carrying out with due care a decision
described in subdivision (a).”
 
“By its plain language, section 855.4, subdivision (a) immunizes any ‘decision’
relating to the control of the communication of disease that is ‘the result of
the discretion vested in the public entity.’ Such a ‘decision’ is immune, ‘whether
or not such discretion [was] abused.’ Under subdivision (b), immunity attaches
to any act or omission performed while carrying out such a decision, as long as
the act or omission was performed with due care.” (City of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 129, 144 (Wong) (citation
omitted).) Section 855.4 applies “where a public entity's substandard
maintenance of public property is the sole cause in fact of an individual[']s
exposure to and contraction of a deadly disease.” (Wright v. City of Los
Angeles (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 683, 689.) A “decision not to take action
against the spread of typhus on the public property adjacent from City Hall
East was an exercise of discretion under section 855.4, subdivision (a).” (Greenwood
v. City of Los Angeles (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 851, 864.) “Where a public
entity or public employee's decision to act or not act in response to a public
health emergency is pursuant to a mandatory duty, such a decision would not be
discretionary, but rather ministerial. [Citation omitted.] Under such
circumstances, the policies underlying the need for governmental immunity would
not apply, and the decision would not constitute an exercise of discretion.” (Greenwood,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 864.) In order to allege a viable cause of action
against LADWP, Plaintiffs were “required to allege facts showing that the
City's actions did not fall within the statutory immunity in section 855.4.” (Wong,
supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at 147.)[2]
 
Here, the complaint alleges that LADWP had actual or constructive
notice of the Naegleria fowleri in the Hot Ditch but that it failed to
take appropriate action. Any such decision not to take action falls under the
immunity in section 855.4(a). Plaintiffs do not sufficiently allege that LADWP
failed to comply with a nondiscretionary, ministerial duty. Plaintiffs have not
identified any mandatory duty that LADWP violated with respect to its decisions
regarding Naegleria fowleri. Thus, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
sufficient to demonstrate that LADWP’s acts or omissions do not constitute a
“decision to perform or not perform any act” to “control[ ] the communication
of disease within the community” which was within “the discretion vested in”
the LADWP. 
 
Neither Plaintiffs’, nor Brown’s Supply’s,[3] opposition
presents any facts to establish that the complaint sufficiently alleges that
LADWP’s actions did not fall within the statutory immunity in section 855.4. Plaintiff
merely argues that since the complaint alleges in Count Two that LADWP breached
an unspecified mandatory duty, the complaint sufficiently alleges that
Defendant’s actions do not fall within the statutory immunity. (Opp. at pg. 5.)
However, Plaintiffs are required to plead specific facts, and have not
specified which mandatory duties are alleged to have been breached. 
 
Plaintiffs further argue that they should be granted leave to amend,
arguing that federal, as well potentially California, regulatory provisions
give rise to a mandatory duty. (Opp. at pgs. 6-10.) In opposition, LADWP argues
that alleging a specific mandatory duty in Count Two does not defeat statutory
immunity under section 855.4. Defendant further argues that there is no
mandatory duty that could defeat statutory immunity.
 
            “Where the complaint
is defective, [i]n the furtherance of justice great liberality should be
exercised in permitting a plaintiff to amend his [or her] complaint…However, if
the plaintiff's causes of action is [sic] not viable, leave to amend should not
be granted if there is no basis for the court to conclude further amendment
would cure the defects.” (Favila v. Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 189, 211, internal quotations omitted.) If the demurrer is
sustained, plaintiff “has the burden of proving the possibility of cure by
amendment.” (Czajkowski v. Haskell & White, LLP (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 166, 173, citing Grinzi v. San Diego Hospice Corp. (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 72, 78-79).
 
            Although the Court is
concerned that the defects identified in the complaint are not curable by
amendment, the Court will permit Plaintiffs leave to amend given the liberal
policy of amendment in this state. In particular, the Court notes that it is
not sufficient to merely allege a mandatory duty, but rather Plaintiffs must
allege with particularity that the LADWP’s decision to act or not act in
response to the public health issue was pursuant to a specific mandatory duty,
consistent with the case authorities discussed herein.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
Any amended complaint must be
filed within 30 days.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


