 Case Number:  22STCV26670    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  27, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV26670




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Responses to Requests for Production Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Bryce Tipple




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  The Doorman Security, Inc. 



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
states that on December 23, 2022, Plaintiff propounded Request for Production
of Documents, Set One on Defendant the Doorman Security, Inc. (Defendant).
Defendant served responses on February 17, 2023, which were unsigned by defense
counsel. Certain documents have not been produced. Although styled as a motion
to compel responses to requests for production, the motion actually appears to
be a request for an order to produce documents and for further responses.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Motion
to Compel Documents Responsive to Requests for Production
 
“If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection … thereafter
fails to permit the inspection … in accordance with that party’s statement of
compliance, the demanding party may move for an ordering compelling
compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320(a).) “[T]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party … or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.320(b).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            To the
extent that the motion seeks to compel the production of documents that are
referenced in the responses to Requests for Production of Documents (see Motion
at pg. 5), the Court grants the motion to compel. However, Defendant appears to
believe the issue is the lack of verified responses to Requests for Production
of Documents. (See Opp. at pg. 3.) Plaintiff then replies that the responses
are deficient. (Reply at pg. 2.) To the extent that the motion seeks verified
responses, the motion appears to be moot. To the extent that the motion seeks
to compel further responses, Plaintiff must timely schedule an Informal
Discovery Conference, as required by the Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures
for the Personal Injury Hub.
 
            Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions against Defendant in the sum of $6,060. The Court finds
the amount to be excessive and awards sanctions in the amount of $300.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel production of
documents and denies the motion to the extent that it seeks to compel further
responses. Documents responsive to the Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents shall be produced within 30 days.
 
Defendant is ordered to pay $300 to counsel for Plaintiff
within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 