 Case Number:  21STCV06432    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September 27, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV06432




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant John T. Tsai




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Sanjuanita Rios



 
 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice of Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities 

 

Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment

 

Declaration of Regina Peralta

 

Declaration of John T. Tsai

 

Volume of Evidence

 
 
OPPOSITION
PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
     Opposition  

 

Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition 

 

Declaration of Eric A. Forstrom in Support of Plaintiff’s
     in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment 

 
REPLY
PAPERS:
 

Defendants’
     Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment 

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Sanjuanita Rios (Plaintiff) sued 1815 E. Workman, LLC. and
John T. Tsai (“Defendants”) for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges she tripped over a concealed speedbump on property “owned, maintained,
managed and operated” by Defendants, and was injured. (Complaint, 4.) 
 
Moving Defendant John T. Tsai (Tsai) now moves for summary judgment
arguing there are no triable issues of fact since he does not own the subject
property. Tsai also seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5. Plaintiff opposes and Tsai replies. 
LEGAL STANDARD – SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment
standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion
must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v.
Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version
is more likely true.  Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence
and Premises Liability 
 
“The elements of a negligence cause of action
are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate
cause resulting in injury. The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998,
citation omitted.) “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have
a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) 
 
            The
“crucial element for imposing a duty in such circumstances is control,” “the
rationale being that whoever has the means to control the property can take
steps to prevent the harm.” (Soto v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2020)
45 Cal.App.5th 168, 177.) As a result, premises liability is not limited to the
person or entity that holds title to the land. In Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14
Cal.4th 1149, the plaintiff was injured on a strip of land owned by the city
but sued the landlord of the adjacent property. Summary judgment for the
landlord was reversed because the court found there was a triable issue of fact
whether the landlord exercised control over the strip. (Id. at 1152, 1157.)
“A defendant need not own, possess and control
property in order to be held liable; control alone is sufficient.” (Id.
at 1162.) 
 
“A defendant cannot be held
liable for the defective or dangerous condition of property which it did not
own, possess, or control. Where the absence of ownership, possession, or
control has been unequivocally established, summary judgment is proper.” (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 134.)
 

Here, Tsai sets forth the
following facts: 
 
-         
The alleged slip/trip and fall incident occurred
on March 28, 2019 at 1815 E. Workman Avenue, West Covina, CA 91791. (UMF 1.)
-         
Defendant 1815 E. Workman, LLC is the owner of
the subject premises located at 1815 E. Workman Avenue, West Covina, CA 91791.
(UMF 3.)
-         
Defendant John T Tsai is the LLC Manager of
Defendant 1815 E. Workman, LLC. (UMF 4.)
 
Tsai argues he is entitled to summary judgment because he did not own
the property where Plaintiff was allegedly injured. However, Tsai has presented
no evidence regarding a lack of control over the property. As discussed above,
control of the property is a separate basis for liability than ownership or
possession. Because Tsai has failed to meet his burden to establish that there
are no triable issues of material fact, the Court denies the motion for summary
judgment.
 
 
Because the motion for summary judgment is denied, the Court denies
Tsai’s request for sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant John T. Tsai’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of
service of such. 
 