 Case Number:  21STCV30702    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  27, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV30702




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Demand for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Westcoast Gate & Entry
  Systems, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  (Marco Antonio Erazo)



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Westcoast Gate & Entry Systems (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff
Marco Antonio Erazo (“Plaintiff”) to produce documents identified in
Plaintiff’s responses to Demands for Production of Documents. On April 21,
2023, Plaintiff served verified responses to document demands. (Ortiz Decl. ¶
6.) No extensions were requested and documents have not been produced. (Ortiz
Decl. ¶ 9-10.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
“If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection … thereafter
fails to permit the inspection … in accordance with that party’s statement of
compliance, the demanding party may move for an ordering compelling
compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320(a).) “[T]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party … or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.320(b).)
 
Here, no documents have been produced in conjunction with responses to
document demands. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to compel production
of documents.
 
Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel. No opposition
was filed and therefore Plaintiff has not demonstrated that he acted with
substantial justification or that circumstances make the imposition of a
sanction unjust. However, the Court finds the amount requested excessive in
light of the nature of the motion and that it is unopposed. Accordingly, the
Court orders sanctions in the amount of $430 (2 hours of attorney time at $185
plus $60 filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants Defendant’s motion
to compel and orders Plaintiff to produce responsive documents to Defendant within
15 days.
 
            Plaintiff and counsel for Plaintiff,
jointly and severally, shall pay sanctions in the amount of $430 to counsel for
Defendant within 15 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 