  Case Number:  19STCV38851    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 19, 2024               JUDGMENT: June
20, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Ana Liza Filio v. Statebridge Co., LLC
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV38851            
 
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Ana Liza Filio
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant
Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB, d/b/a Christiana Trust as Trustee for
PNPMS Trust I.
 
CASE
HISTORY:

10/23/19:
     Complaint filed.
03/25/20:
     First Amended Complaint filed.
08/12/20:
     Second Amended Complaint filed.
11/09/20:
     Third Amended Complaint filed.
12/08/23:
     Joint stipulation entered dismissing Defendant Statebridge Co., LLC entirely
     and dismissing all remaining claims except the third cause of action for
     declaratory relief against Defendant Wilmington. 
06/20/24:
     Judgment entered for Plaintiff and against Defendant Wilmington. 

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud and
breach of contract stemming from an allegedly wrongful foreclosure on a parcel
of real property owned by Plaintiff. 
 
            Plaintiff
moves for attorney’s fees after prevailing on summary judgment. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED in the amount of $152,220.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff
moves for attorney’s fees as the prevailing party in this action. 
 
Entitlement to Fees
 
            Plaintiff
contends that she is entitled to attorney’s fees pursuant to the terms of the
Deed of Trust that is at the center of this action. 
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1021, the apportionment of attorney’s fees is left
to the agreement of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1021.) However, a party who
prevails in an action is expressly entitled to recover costs, except where
otherwise provided by statute. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1032(b).) Attorney’s fees, as
authorized by contract, statute, or other law, are among these recoverable
costs. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5(a)(10).) For the purposes of these statutes:
 
“Prevailing
party” includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1032(a)(4).) Plaintiff contends that the
Deed of Trust contains at least one fee provision that entitles Plaintiff to
attorney’s fees pursuant to Civil Code section 1717. This section entitles any
party that prevails in an action “on a contract” to an award of reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred to enforce the contract, in addition to other costs,
if the contract specifically provides for an award of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred in its enforcement to at least one of the parties. (Civ. Code §
1717(a).) Specifically, Plaintiff contends that Paragraph 17 of the Deed of
Trust expressly permits recovery of attorney’s fees. This paragraph states:
 
17.
Acceleration; Remedies. Except as provided in Paragraph 16 hereof
[relating to sale or transfer of interest in property without Lender’s consent],
upon Borrower’s breach of any covenant or agreement of Borrower in this Deed of
Trust, including the covenants to pay when due any sums secured by this Deed of
Trust, Lender, prior to acceleration shall give notice to Borrower as provided
in Paragraph 12 hereof specifying (1) the breach; (2) the action required to
cure such breach; (3) a date, not less than 10 days from the date the notice is
mailed to Borrower by which such breach must be cured; and (4) that failure to
cure such breach on or before the date specified in the notice may result in
acceleration of the sums secured by this Deed of Trust and sale of the
Property. The notice shall further inform Borrower of the right to reinstate
after acceleration and the right to bring a court action to assert the
non-existence of a default or any other defense of Borrower to acceleration and
sale. If the breach is not cured on or before the date specified in the notice,
Lender, at Lender’s option may declare all of the sums secured by this Deed of
Trust to be immediately due and payable without further demand and may invoke
the power of sale and any other remedies permitted by applicable law.
Lender shall be entitled to collect all reasonable costs and expenses incurred
in pursuing the remedies provided in this paragraph 17, including, but
not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees. 
 
(TAC Exh. A ¶ 17 [emphasis added].) Plaintiff further relies
on Paragraph 4(D) of the Promissory Note on the Deed of Trust, proffered by
Defendant in support of its December 7, 2020 Motion to Dissolve Preliminary
Injunction, which states that “[i]f the Note Holder has required [Plaintiff] to
pay immediately in full . . . the Note Holder will have the right to be paid
back for all of its cost and expenses to the extent not prohibited by
applicable law. Those expenses include, for example, reasonable attorney’s
fees.” (Declaration of Stefanie Jeffries ISO Mot. to Dissolve Prelim. Inj.
Filed December 7, 2020 Exh. A ¶ 4(D).) Plaintiff also references paragraph 13,
which is a choice of law and severability provision that defines “attorney’s
fees” to include “all sums to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or
limited herein,” (TAC Exh. A. ¶ 13), and Paragraph 7, which expressly states
that reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to protect the Lender’s interest
pursuant to that paragraph shall be incorporated into the underlying debt. (TAC
Exh. A ¶ 7.)
 
Defendant argues in opposition that
Plaintiff is not entitled to collect attorney’s fees in this action because,
according to Defendant, the references to attorney’s fees in Paragraph 17 of
the Deed of Trust and Paragraph 5 of the Promissory Note relate to fees and
costs associated with acceleration of the loan and foreclosure, not litigation.
Instead, Defendant contends that litigation is governed exclusively by
Paragraph 7, which states:
 
7.
Protection of Lender's Security. If Borrower fails to perform the covenants
and agreements contained in this Deed of Trust, or if any action or proceeding
is commenced which materially affects Lender's interest in the Property, then
Lender, at Lender's option, upon notice to Borrower, may make such appearances,
disburse such sums, including reasonable attorneys' fees, and take such action
as is necessary to protect Lender's interest. If Lender required mortgage
insurance as a condition of making the loan secured by this Deed of Treat, Borrower
shall pay the premiums required to maintain such insurance in effect-until such
time as the requirement for such insurance terminates in accordance with
Borrower's and Lender's written agreement or applicable law. Any amounts
disbursed by Lender pursuant to this paragraph 7, with interest thereon, at the
Note rate, shall become additional indebtedness of Borrower secured by this
Deed of Trust. Unless Borrower and Lender agree to other terms of payment, such
amounts shall be payable upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment
thereof. Nothing contained in this paragraph 7 shall require Lender to incur
any expense or take any action hereunder.
 
(TAC Exh. A. ¶ 7.) As Defendant states, Paragraph 7 is not a
basis for the recovery of attorney’s fees in litigation by its express terms. (Hart
v. Clear Recon Corp. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 322, 325; Chacker v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 351, 354 [both holding that provisions
with substantively identical language to Paragraph 7 do not provide for an
award of attorney’s fees].) However, the Court is not persuaded that the
acceleration clause does not pertain to litigation, as paragraph 17 expressly
entitles the Lender to “invoke the power of sale” and pursue “any other
remedies permitted by applicable law” -- such as, for example, a suit for damages—for
breach of the Deed of Trust. (TAC Exh. A ¶ 17.) 
By the terms of the Deed, the Lender would be entitled to recover any
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in pursuit of that remedy. (Id.)  As the Deed of Trust therefore entitles the
Lender to recover attorney’s fees, Civil Code section 1717(a) entitles Plaintiff
to recover attorney’s fees as the prevailing party. 
 
Reasonableness of Fees
 
            Plaintiff
requests attorney’s fees in the amount of $153,220, reflecting $150,760 in fees
incurred at the time of the motion, plus $420.00 in fees relating to the
Parties’ recent stipulation as to costs, plus $2,040 in preparing the reply
brief and $1,500.00 in anticipated fees for the hearing on this motion. 
 
Reasonable
attorney fees are ordinarily determined by the Court pursuant to the “lodestar”
method, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate. (See PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1084, 1095-1096; Margolin v. Regional Planning Com. (1982) 134
Cal.App.3d 999, 1004 [“California courts have consistently held that a
computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is
fundamental to a determination of an appropriate attorneys' fee award.”].) “[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for
comparable legal services in the community; it may be adjusted by the court
based on factors including, as relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty
of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the
extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the
attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award….”  (Ibid.)
In setting the hourly rate for a fee award, courts are entitled to consider the
“fees customarily charged by that attorney and others in the community for
similar work.” (Bihun v. AT&T Info. Sys., Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th
976, 997 [affirming rate of $450 per hour], overruled on other grounds by Lakin
v. Watkins Associated Indus. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 644, 664.)  The burden
is on the party seeking attorney’s fees to prove the reasonableness of the
fees. (Center for Biological Diversity v. County of San Bernardino
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 603, 615.) 
 
The Court has broad discretion in determining the
amount of a reasonable attorney’s fee award, which will not be overturned
absent a “manifest abuse of discretion, a prejudicial error of law, or
necessary findings not supported by substantial evidence.” (Bernardi
v. County of Monterey (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1393-1394.)  The
Court need not explain its calculation of the amount of attorney’s fees awarded
in detail; identifying the factors considered in arriving at the amount will
suffice. (Ventura v. ABM Indus. Inc. (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 258,
274-275.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks a total fee award of $153,220.
The bulk of this request arises from fees incurred before the filing of this
motion on July 25, 2024, totaling $150,760 in fees based on 259.6 hours of
attorney time incurred by Attorney Yossi Noudel at hourly rates ranging from
$400 to $500, totaling $115,390 in fees (Declaration of Yossi Noudel ISO Mot.
Exh. 1), plus 134.5 hours at $300 per hour incurred by Attorney Michael
Hagemann totaling $35,370. (Declaration of Michael Hagemann ISO Mot. Exh. 2). $420.00
in fees were incurred in resolving the issue of costs by stipulation after this
motion was filed: 0.9 hours at $300 per hour by Attorney Hagemann, and 0.3
hours at $500 per hour by Attorney Noudel. (Supplemental Declaration of Michael
Hagemann ISO Mot. ¶ 4; Supplemental Declaration of Yossi Noudel ISO Mot. ¶ 4.)
An additional $2,040 was incurred preparing the reply papers on this motion;
5.8 hours at $300 per hour by Attorney Hagemann, and 0.6 hours at $500 per hour
by Attorney Noudel. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff estimates a further 3 hours
will be incurred by Attorney Noudel at his $500 hourly rate at the hearing on
this motion, for an additional $1,500. The Court declines to award anticipated
fees as they are an estimate and not actually incurred and will therefore
reduce the award to eliminate all but one hour at the $500 rate in anticipated
fees. 
 
Both
attorneys for Plaintiff have provided sworn declarations attesting to their
skills, training, and experience, and the hourly rates which they billed to
Plaintiff for their services. (Noudel Decl. ¶¶ 5-6; Hagemann Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)
Those declarations also include itemized, dated billing records describing the
work performed, the hourly rates applied, the hours incurred, and the fees
billed. (Noudel Decl. Exh. 1; Hagemann Decl. Exh. 2.) Defendant, in opposition,
argues that Plaintiff’s fees should be reduced because some of the fees described
in the billing records pertain to demurrers and discovery motions, and because
the billing records do not distinguish between work done on Plaintiff’s
contract claims and her non-contract claims. As Plaintiff states in reply, the
Court need not apportion fees when those fees are incurred on issues common to
all claims. (See Reynolds Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124,
129-130.) Moreover, in challenging a fee request, the opposing party bears the
burden to point to specific items challenged with sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence. (Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc., v.
California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.) Defendant
does not do so: no specific billing entries are identified, and no evidence is
cited in support of the argument that Plaintiff’s fee request should be
reduced. The Court is therefore not persuaded that the fee request is deficient,
and finds that Plaintiff has carried her burden with respect to all but some of
the anticipated fees, for a total of $152,220.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED in the amount of $152,220.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: September 19, 2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 