 Case Number:  22STCV39928    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




douglas a. bagby, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
JOSEPH DANIEL DAVIS, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV39928




Hearing Date:


October 9, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE
  RULING RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDERS COMPELLING
  DEFENDANT JOSEPH D. DAVIS TO RETURN $3.5 MILLION HE TRANSFERRED TO A NEVIS
  ISLAND LLC AND ADDITIONAL ORDERS AGAINST DEFENDANTS PENDING TRIAL
 




 
Background 
Plaintiff Douglas A. Bagby (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December
22, 2022 against Defendant Joseph Daniel Davis (“Joseph Davis”). 
Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on August
31, 2023[1]
against Joseph Davis, Hilary Davis, and Randi Desnoes. The SAC alleges causes
of action for (1) “perjury by Defendants Joseph D. Davis and Hilary Davis
Regarding the Transfer of Title of the Ketchum Home to Hilary Davis,” (2)
“intentionally transferring $3.5 million to Nevis Island to ‘Hinder, Delay, or
Defraud’ Plaintiff,” (3) “perjury regarding [Defendant Joseph D. Davis’s]
alleged move to Florida in 2020,” (4) “transfers of assets to Hilary Davis to
‘hinder, delay, or defraud’ Plaintiff,” (5) “aiding and abetting defendant
Joseph D. Davis in violating the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act,” (6)
“violating orders of the court,” and (7) “assets transferred to any such Doe
Defendants.”[2] 
Plaintiff now moves for the Court to issue certain specified orders. (See
Motion at p. 2-3.) Joseph Davis and Hilary Davis
(jointly, the “Davis Defendants”) oppose. 
Requests for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice only as to the fact of the filing of Exhibits A-C to the
request. The Court notes that “[i]t
is well settled that a court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of
matters stated in pleadings or affidavits in the court file of another case,
although it can be noticed that the documents exist. Judicial notice can be taken only of the
contents of orders, findings of fact, conclusions of law, and judgments.” (Bennett v. Regents of University of California (2005)
133 Cal.App.4th 347, 358, fn. 7 [emphasis in original].) The Court also
notes that additional exhibits are attached to Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice, but Plaintiff does not appear to request that the Court take judicial
notice of them. 
The Court grants the Davis
Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
Discussion 
As an initial matter, the Davis Defendants assert in the opposition
that Plaintiff’s “improper Motion
for Orders…attempts to have
judgment entered before the case is at issue and before discovery. The Motion
is based on Bagby’s First
Amended Complaint, which is no longer the operative complaint.” (Opp’n at p.
2:3-5.) 
The Court notes that it
appears Plaintiff may be seeking a preliminary injunction, although such
request is not stated in the notice of motion. Plaintiff first states at page
13 of the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the motion that “Plaintiff respectfully submits the undisputed facts in the present case compel the Court to issue the
mandatory injunction requested by Plaintiff.” (Mot.
at p. 13:13-15.) However, pursuant to California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1110, subdivision (a), “[a] notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the
nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of the order.” (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 1010, “[n]otices must be in writing, and
the notice of a motion, other than for a new trial, must state when, and the
grounds upon which it will be made, and the papers, if any, upon which it is to
be based.”) The
Court does not find that Plaintiff has adequately demonstrated the grounds for
issuance of the requested orders in the notice of motion.
In addition, to the extent Plaintiff is seeking a preliminary injunction, the Court
does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that such relief is warranted.
The Court notes that “[i]n
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, the trial court
considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm that the
plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the
harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction.” (Donahue Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu Creation
Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
1171, 1177 [internal quotations omitted].) The
burden is on the party seeking injunctive relief to show all elements necessary
to support issuance of a preliminary injunction. (O'Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) 
Plaintiff filed the
instant motion on July 26, 2023, before the operative SAC was filed on August
31, 2023. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion could not demonstrate “the likelihood that the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits of its case at trial,” specifically, the causes of action
alleged in the SAC. (Donahue Schriber Realty Group,
Inc. v. Nu Creation Outreach, supra,
232 Cal.App.4th at p. 1177.) The Court notes that “[a]n amendatory pleading
supersedes the original one, which ceases to perform any function as a
pleading. The amended complaint furnishes the sole basis for the cause of
action, and the original complaint ceases to have any effect either as a
pleading or as a basis for judgment. Because there is but one complaint in a
civil action…the filing of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a
prior complaint.” (JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013)
221 Cal.App.4th 468, 477 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Moreover,
Plaintiff does not appear to specifically reference any of Plaintiff’s causes
of action in the instant motion.   
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
ruling.
 
DATED:  October 9, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los Angeles
Superior Court
 
 
 
 


