  Case Number:  19STCV25174    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 18, 2019, Plaintiffs Esmeralda Gomez (“Gomez”)
and Glenda Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) filed this action against Defendants Erika
Lisbeth Lopez (“Lopez”) and Does 1-50 for negligence, loss of consortium, and
vehicle use exception. 
On
December 17, 2019, Lopez filed an answer. 
On
July 27, 2020, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Stars
Behavioral Health Group, Inc. (“Stars”) as Doe 12. 
On
October 6, 2020, Stars filed an answer. 
On
February 13, 2024, Lopez filed a motion to compel Gomez’s examination by a
hand/wrist specialist, on May 6, 2024. On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. On April 19, 2024, Lopez filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 17, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Lopez
asks the Court to compel Gomez to attend an examination by a hand/wrist specialist. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any
case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee. 
“(b) A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court after
that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs
first. 
“(c) A demand
under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if
any, of the physician who will perform the examination. 
“(d) A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand. On motion of the
party demanding the examination, the court may shorten this time. 
“(e) The
defendant shall serve a copy of the demand under subdivision (a) on the
plaintiff and on all other parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210) . . . , the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical . . .
examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
  “(d) An order
granting a physical . . . examination shall specify the person or persons who
may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
Lopez
asks the Court to compel Gomez’s examination by an orthopedic
surgeon who is a hand/wrist specialist. 
Lopez contends that she has established good cause because the
examination is directly relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims, Lopez cannot obtain the
information by other means, Gomez will use an expert to support her claim of a
hand/wrist injury, Gomez is claiming ongoing injuries, and Gomez has placed her
hand/wrist injuries in controversy.  
Gomez
has already submitted to three examinations, including one with an orthopedic
surgeon.  The orthopedic surgeon who conducted the examination was
aware that Gomez claimed her hands and wrists were injured and had access to Gomez's medical records. 
Lopez
argues the Court should find good cause for an additional examination because Gomez’s
injuries have progressed to the point that she cannot fully open her hands.  Lopez does not assert, however, that the
condition of her hands and wrists has materially changed since the prior
examination by an orthopedic surgeon. 
Instead, Lopez stated that her injuries “have deteriorated over time.”  (See McCabe dec. ¶ 4.) 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court DENIES the motion of Defendant Erika Lisbeth Lopez to compel Plaintiff Esmeralda
Gomez’s examination by a hand/wrist specialist. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.