 Case Number:  21STCV37230    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUNDOn
October 8, 2021, Plaintiffs Leonel Mateo Pascual and Pascual Mateo Pascual
("Plaintiffs") filed this action against Defendants Raymond G.
Guillermo, Los Angeles Private Detectives ("Los Angeles Private
Detectives"), Doe business entities 1-20, and Doe individuals 21-50 for
assault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On
January 11, 2022, Defendant Raymond Guillermo dba Los Angeles Private
Detectives (“Guillermo”) filed an answer. 
On
May 26, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Pipkin Detective Agency, Inc.
(“Pipkin”) as Doe 1. 
On
July 1, 2022, the Court granted Guillermo’s motion for a stay and stayed the
action in its entirety pending the outcome of Guillermo’s criminal case. 
On
July 8, 2022, Pipkin filed an answer. On July 12, 2022, Pipkin filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for indemnity, equitable
contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
October 31, 2022, the Court lifted the stay. 
On
January 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against Guillermo,
Los Angeles Private Detectives, Pipkin, and Doe defendants for assault and
battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of
emotional distress, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention,
negligence, and negligence per se. 
On
January 24, 2023, Guillermo filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
February 14, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the first amended complaint to include
Defendant Ho Sai Gai Farms, Inc. (“Ho Sai Gai Farms”) as Doe 2. 
On
March 27, 2023, Ho Sai Gai Farms filed an answer. 
On
April 4, 2023, the Court sustained Pipkin’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s claims for
assault and battery and negligent hiring, training, supervision, and retention with
30 days leave to amend. The Court denied Pipkin’s motion to strike. 
On
May 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint against Guillermo, Los
Angeles Private Detectives, Pipkin, and Doe defendants for assault, battery,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional
distress, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention, negligence,
and negligence per se. 
On
July 6, 2023, the Court overruled Pipkin’s demurrer and denied its motion to
strike. On July 19, 2023, Pipkin filed an answer to the second amended
complaint. 
On
July 19, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Murray
Scott McElroy (“McElroy”) as Doe 5. 
On
August 29, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendants
Christopher Scott Garrett (“Garrett”) as Doe 3 and Daren
Robert Ellison (“Ellison”) as Doe 4. 
On
October 27, 2023, McElroy, Garrett, and Ellison filed an answer. 
On
February 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint against Guillermo,
Pipkin, Doe business entities 1-20, and Doe individuals 21-50 for assault,
battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of
emotional distress, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention of employee,
negligence, and negligence per se.  On
March 7, 2024, Ho Sai Gai Farms filed an answer.  On March 8, 2024, Guillermo filed an answer. 
On
March 1, 2024, Pipkin, Garrett, Ellison, and McElroy (“Moving Defendants”)
filed a demurrer and motion to strike to be heard on April 9, 2024. On March 26
and April 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the demurrer and motion to
strike. On April 2 and 29, 2024, Moving Defendants filed replies in support of
the demurrer and motion to strike.  The
Court continued the hearing to May 6, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 15, 2024. 
PARTIES REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court (1) to sustain the demurrer to the claims for assault,
battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress and (2) to strike
references to malice, fraud, oppression, despicable conduct, conscious and reckless disregard, and punitive damages. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to overrule the demurrer and deny the motion to strike. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
 “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted.)  B.   Motion to strike Code
of Civil Procedure section 436 provides: “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: “(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. “(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “The
grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“Where the motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may
take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such
matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points
and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437, subd. (b).) “In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1255.)DISCUSSION 
A.   The third amended complaint 
The
third amended complaint alleges that on September 14, 2021, Defendants’ agents
and employees beat, assaulted, and handcuffed Plaintiffs and wrongly accused Plaintiffs
of stealing from Defendants. 
B.   The demurrer 
1.    Assault 
“The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably
appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3)
plaintiff did not consent to defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and
(5) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669 (So).) 
Moving
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not pleaded assault with sufficient particularity
because they have not alleged facts showing that Moving Defendants intended to
harm Plaintiffs.  Moving Defendants contend: “From the conclusory
allegations contained in the Third Amended Complaint relating to Defendants,
there are no facts to support how the subject incident was intentionally
precipitated by Defendants, choosing to commit assault on Plaintiffs. No facts
are pled demonstrating that Defendants purposely placed Plaintiffs in imminent
apprehension of a harmful or offensive contact.”  The Court rejected this argument in its April
4, 2023 ruling. 
The third
amended complaint contains the same allegations that the Court previously found
were adequate to state a claim for assault. (See Third Amended Complaint, ¶[56
[Pipkin’s agents], while acting within the scope of their employment of LOS
ANGELES PRIVATE DETECTIVES, placed PLAINTIFFS in immediate fear or apprehension
of harmful or offensive contact with the intent to cause harmful and offensive
contact with Plaintiffs, and threatened such contact by berating, yelling,
approaching, and verbally and physically threatening, handcuffing them and
physically slammed them into a vehicle all with the intent to harm and offend
Plaintiffs”].) 
The
Court overrules Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the assault claim. 
2.    Battery 
“The
essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched
plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend
plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was
harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in
plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching. (So, supra,
212 Cal.App.4th at p. 669.) 
Moving
Defendants argue that the third amended complaint does not plead facts supporting
a battery claim.  The third amended complaint
alleges that “[Pipkin’s agents], while acting within the scope of their
employment of LOS ANGELES PRIVATE DETECTIVES, placed PLAINTIFFS in immediate
fear or apprehension of harmful or offensive contact with the intent to cause
harmful and offensive contact with Plaintiffs, and threatened such contact by
berating, yelling, approaching, and verbally and physically threatening,
handcuffing them and physically slammed them into a vehicle all with the intent
to harm and offend Plaintiffs.”  (¶ 68.) 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded a battery claim.  The Court overrules the demurrer to that claim. 
3.    Intentional infliction of emotional distress 
“A
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when
there is “ ‘ “ ‘ “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ ” ' ” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050, quoting Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001 (Potter).) 
“A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so “ ‘ “ ‘extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ ” ’ ”
(Id. at pp. 1050-1051, quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at
p. 1001.) “And the defendant's conduct must be “ ‘ “ ‘intended to inflict
injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 1001.) 
“
‘The law limits claims of intentional infliction of emotional distress to
egregious conduct toward plaintiff proximately caused by defendant.’ ” (Christiansen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 905, quoting Miller v. National
Broadcasting Co. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1463, 1489, emphasis omitted.) “The
only exception to this rule is that recognized when the defendant is aware, but
acts with reckless disregard, of the plaintiff and the probability that his or
her conduct will cause severe emotional distress to that plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  “Where reckless disregard of the plaintiff's
interests is the theory of recovery, the presence of the plaintiff at the time
the outrageous conduct occurs is recognized as the element establishing a
higher degree of culpability which, in turn, justifies recovery of greater
damages by a broader group of plaintiffs than allowed on a negligent infliction
of emotional distress theory.”  (Id.
at pp. 905-906.) 
The
Court finds that Plaintiffs have pleaded sufficient facts to state a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim. 
C.   Motion to strike 
Civil
Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
“(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. 
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (b), (c).) Moving
Defendants ask the Court to strike the allegations of malice, oppression,
fraud, conscious and reckless disregard, despicable conduct, and reckless
indifference, and the punitive damage claims from the causes of action for assault,
battery, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention, and negligence
per se, and from the prayer for relief. 
The
Court grants the motion with respect to the claim for negligent hiring,
supervision, training, and retention.  In
all other respects, the Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendants Defendant Pipkin Detective Agency,
Inc., Christopher Scott Garrett, Daren
Robert Ellison, and Murray Scott McElroy. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to strike of Defendants
Defendant Pipkin Detective Agency, Inc., Christopher Scott Garrett, Daren
Robert Ellison, and Murray Scott McElroy with respect to the claim for negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention
in the third amended complaint filed by Plaintiffs Leonel Mateo Pascual and
Pascual Mateo Pascual.  Plaintiffs Leonel Mateo Pascual and Pascual Mateo Pascual have 30 days leave to
amend.  In all other respects, the Court
DENIES the motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.