  Case Number:  23CHCV02813    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-14-24
Case # 23CHCV02813, Elliott Wolfe vs. Judith Wolfe, et
al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Judith Wolfe
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Elliot Wolfe
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Assault
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Battery
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Trespass to
Chattels
·        
4th Cause of Action for Conversion
·        
5th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
6th Cause of Action for Elder Abuse
 
RULING: Demurrer sustained with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint with six causes of action for Assault, Battery, Trespass to
Chattels, Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Elder
Abuse.
 
Defendant Judith Wolfe (Defendant) previously filed a
demurer on October 23, 2023. That demurrer was sustained with leave to amend on
February 29, 2024. On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) was
filed. Defendant filed her demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC on April 24, 2024.
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s demurrer.
 
Defendant Judith is listed as one of the defendants to
the FAC. It is mentioned in the FAC that Judith was Plaintiff’s wife and that
they have separated. (FAC, ¶
11.) The FAC states that Judith assaulted Plaintiff on August 6, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 7.) Next, it states
that Judith bit Plaintiff on that date. (FAC, ¶ 9.) The FAC also alleges that
Judith causes Plaintiff emotional distress. (FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant brings a demurrer to the First through Sixth
Causes of Action on the basis that they are deprived of subject matter jurisdiction
and fail to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Third, Fourth, and Sixth Causes
of Action
Plaintiff’s Third, Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action are
devoid of any specific facts against Defendant Judith Wolfe. It is impossible
to tell from Plaintiff’s complaint what Plaintiff is alleging happened. Rather
than state facts, Plaintiff has made conclusory statements under these causes
of action that items of his property were taken, but he does not state who took
what or when it was taken. These conclusory statements seem designed to simply
check the boxes for the requirements of the causes of action, and do not state
any facts specific to Plaintiff’s case. 
 
While Judith’s name is mentioned in the Third and Fourth
Causes of Action, it is only in the context of her being Plaintiff’s then-wife.
There are no allegations against her. Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts
to maintain these causes of action. Defendant’s demurrer to these causes of
action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
First Cause of Action
For the First Cause of Action for Assault, the essential
elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent
to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a
harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to
be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to
plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did
not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5)
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI
No. 1301.)
 
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action only mentions that the
date of the assault by Judith was August 6, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 7.) There are no
facts concerning what the assault entailed or what the harmful or offensive
contact was. Plaintiff has not pled fact sufficient to maintain a cause of
action for assault against Defendant Judith. Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            Second
Cause of Action
The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are:
(1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the
intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching. (CACI No. 1300.)
 
Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for battery only mentions
that Judith bit Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 9.) There is no context given for this
allegation, nor does the FAC address where, when, and how the biting took place.
Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for
battery. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Fifth
Cause of Action
A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress must allege that (1) the defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous
conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing, severe emotional distress to the plaintiff; (2) the plaintiff
actually suffered severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the outrageous
conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the emotional distress. (Cervantez
v. J.C. Penney Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593.)
 
The FAC only states that Judith caused an incident of IIED,
but the FAC contains no information about what the incident entailed or what
the alleged extreme and outrageous conduct was. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff has not
stated facts sufficient to maintain this cause of action against Defendant.
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
            Pending
Dissolution of Marriage Case
Defendant also argues in her demurrer that Plaintiff cannot
maintain a civil action against her while their dissolution matter is pending.
In Neal v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 22, the Court of Appeal
held that a demurrer to a complaint should be sustained on the basis that
family law cases should not be allowed to spill over into civil court. (Id.
at 25.) When the civil case is clearly an extension or rehash of a family law
case, this amounts to a jurisdictional defect in the case. (See also Burkle
v. Burkle (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 387; Glade v. Glade (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1441.)
 
While Defendant represents that the divorce matter between
Plaintiff and Defendant is still pending, it is impossible to tell from the FAC
or from the arguments in Defendant’s demurrer if this case is an extension of
their family law case. There are no specific facts to support the causes of
action, so it is unknown if the causes of action are related to the divorce
matter. While Plaintiff has alleged that his separate property was taken,
Defendant has not made a sufficient showing concerning the nature of the family
law proceeding and the status of the property division issues. In order for the
demurrer to be sustained on this issue, Defendant would need to provide more
information about the status of the family law case, what rulings have been
made, and what issues remain for resolution concerning property disposition and
issues related to the restraining order.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third,
Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is given thirty days to file an amended complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice.Dept. F43Date: 6-14-24Case # 23CHCV02813, Elliott Wolfe vs. Judith Wolfe, et
al.Trial Date: N/A DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE MOVING PARTY: Defendant Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
HospitalRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe RELIEF REQUESTEDDemurrer to the Complaint·        
1st Cause of Action for Assault·        
2nd Cause of Action for Battery·        
5th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress·        
6th Cause of Action for Elder AbuseMotion to Strike·        
Punitive Damages [Page 6, Paragraphs 18 and 19; For
Assault: Prayer, Page 6, lines 25-26; For Battery: Prayer, Page 7, lines 6-7;
For Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: Prayer, Page 8, lines 5-6;
and For Elder Abuse: Page 8, lines 15-16.]·        
Attorney Fees [For Elder Abuse: Prayer, Page 8,
line 9.] RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend;
motion to strike is granted SUMMARY OF ACTION On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint with six causes of action for Assault, Battery, Trespass to
Chattels, Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Elder
Abuse. Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC), filed on March 5, 2024,
contains allegations against Defendant Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital
(Defendant) employees. First, the FAC alleges that employees of Defendant
approached Plaintiff in an aggressive and threatening manner on October 3,
2022. (FAC, ¶ 7.)
Next, Plaintiff alleges that employees of Defendant grabbed Plaintiff, carried
him outside of a medical facility, and dropped him onto the ground on October
3, 2022. (FAC, ¶
9.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges that employees of Defendant intentionally caused
him emotional distress on October 3. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC on May 1,
2024. Defendant filed a motion to strike Plaintiff’s requests for punitive
damages and attorney fees on May 3, 2024. Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s
demurrer and motion to strike. ANALYSISDefendant brings a demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Second,
Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action on the basis that they fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)             Sixth
Causes of Action for Elder AbusePlaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is devoid of any specific
facts against Defendant. It is impossible to tell from Plaintiff’s complaint
what Plaintiff is alleging happened. Rather than state facts, Plaintiff has
made conclusory statements under this cause of action. These conclusory
statements seem designed to simply check the boxes for the requirements of the
causes of action, and do not state any facts specific to Plaintiff’s case.
Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts to maintain this cause of action.
Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. First Cause of ActionFor the First Cause of Action for Assault, the essential
elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent
to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a
harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to
be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to
plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did
not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No. 1301.) Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action only mentions that the
date of the assault was October 3, 2022, and that Defendant’s employees
approached Plaintiff in an aggressive and threatening manner then committed the
batteries described in the Second Cause of Action. (FAC, ¶ 7.) There are no
facts concerning what the assault entailed or other context, such as the
location or context. Plaintiff has not pled fact sufficient to maintain a cause
of action for assault against Defendant. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.              Second
Cause of ActionThe essential elements of a cause of action for battery are:
(1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the
intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching. (CACI No. 1300.) Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for battery only mentions
that Defendant’s employees grabbed Plaintiff, carried him outside a medical
facility, and dropped him onto the ground. (FAC, ¶ 9.) There is no context
given for these allegations, such as the location of the medical facility or
what the sequence of events was that led to the alleged battery. Plaintiff has
not stated facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for battery.
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is sustained with
leave to amend.             Fifth
Cause of ActionA cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress must allege that (1) the defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous
conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing, severe emotional distress to the plaintiff; (2) the plaintiff
actually suffered severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the outrageous
conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the emotional distress. (Cervantez
v. J.C. Penney Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593.) The FAC only states that employees of Defendant caused
incidents of IIED, but the FAC contains no information about what the incidents
entailed or what the alleged extreme and outrageous conduct was. Plaintiff has
not stated facts sufficient to maintain this cause of action against Defendant.
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is sustained with
leave to amend. Motion to StrikeThis Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”             Punitive
DamagesPunitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) The “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as
intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud or malice…within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  “It is not sufficient to allege merely that defendant ‘acted
with oppression, fraud or malice.’ Rather, plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious (e.g.,
that defendant acted with the intent to inflict great bodily harm on plaintiff
or to destroy plaintiff's property or reputation).” (Croskey, et al., Cal.
Prac. Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 13-C (Thomson Reuters, 2016) ¶ 13:197.2;
and see, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 598, 643 [allegations that defendant’s conduct was “intentional,
and done willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with
conscious disregard for Plaintiff's rights” did not satisfy specific pleading
requirements].)  Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants acted with malice and
oppression, but in doing so, he has only made conclusory statements about what
Defendants did. (FAC, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff has not satisfied the pleading
requirements for a request for punitive damages. Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages and references to punitive damages from Plaintiff’s FAC is
granted.             Attorney
FeesAttorney fees are only recoverable when authorized by
contract, statute or law. (CCP § 1021; Reid v. Valley Restaurants, Inc.
(1957) 48 Cal.2d 606, 610.) In the absence of allegations demonstrating that
plaintiff is entitled to recover attorney fees, a request for attorney fees is
improper. (Wiley v. Rhodes (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1470, 1474.) Plaintiff has requested attorney fees through his elder
abuse cause of action (Welfare & Institutions Code § 15657(a)), but the
Court found that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to maintain that
cause of action. In the absence of allegations demonstrating Plaintiff’s
entitlement to the fees, the request is improper. Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
attorney fees is granted. CONCLUSIONDefendant’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for
Plaintiff’s First, Second, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action. Defendant’s motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff has 30 days to file an Amended Complaint. 
Moving party to give notice.