 Case Number:  21LBCV00639    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Palmcrest Grand Home
Assisted Living, LLC filed this action against Defendant, The Palms Real Estate,
LLC for breach of lease and declaratory relief. 
Defendant filed a demurrer to the complaint, and Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint prior to the hearing.  The FAC also includes claims for breach of
lease and declaratory relief.  On
6/21/22, the Court overruled a demurrer to the FAC.  
 
On 7/25/22, Defendant filed a
cross-complaint against Palmcrest House, LLC, which was the tenant to whom
Defendant leased the property, and the tenant who in turn subleased the
property to Plaintiff.  The cross-complaint
includes causes of action for declaratory relief, breach of contract, and indemnity.  
On 10/03/22, Palmcrest House, LLC
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Defendant, alleging claims for
declaratory relief, indemnity, and contribution.  
 
On 2/28/23, the Court denied
Defendant, The Palms Real Estate, LLC’s motion for summary judgment or
adjudication of claims.  
 

Motion for Leave to
     Amend

a.     Relief
Sought
Plaintiff’s complaint against
Defendant is premised on the contention that the plumbing system at the subject
property is faulty and Defendant has failed to properly repair the system.  Plaintiff contends it discovered, in July of
2023, mold and potential asbestos in areas where leaks at the property had
previously occurred and which were improperly repaired by Defendant without
property safety protocols or remediation. 
Plaintiff contends it would be prejudiced if it were not allowed to
pursue all claims against Defendant, and there is no reason to refuse
amendment.  
 
b.     Defendant’s
Contentions in Opposition to the Motion
Defendant opposes the motion.  It argues the proposed amended complaint is
not compulsory and Plaintiff is free to bring the claims in a separate action;
it contends the proposed amended complaint is not actually an amended complaint
at all, but rather a supplemental complaint. 
It contends it will be prejudiced if the claims are added to this action
because there is insufficient time to prepare for trial on the new claims.  It contends it will also be prejudiced
because it will be precluded from bringing a summary judgment or adjudication
motion as to the new claims, as its prior summary judgment motion was
previously denied.   
 
c.    
Law
Governing Leave to Amend
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. 
(CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  However, the court does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (California Casualty General
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as soon as the need
to amend is discovered.  The closer the
trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave to amend.  If the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the Court has the
discretion to deny leave to amend. 
(Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
d.     Analysis
At the outset, the Court notes that
the motion is, as Defendant posits in opposition to the motion, one to
supplement the complaint and not one to amend the complaint.  Pursuant to CCP §464(a) and Foster v. Sexton
(2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1032, a supplemental complaint is used to
allege relevant facts that occur after the original pleading was filed.  Pursuant to Flood v. Simpson (1975) 45
Cal.App.3d 644, 646, a supplemental complaint cannot add new causes of action,
and can only include allegations concerning events that occurred after the
complaint was filed but relate to the same causes of action already pled in the
complaint.  Plaintiff’s proposed “Second
Amended Complaint” continues to include only the original causes of action for
breach of lease and declaratory relief, and is therefore a supplemental, not
amended, complaint.  Notably, pursuant to
Jarchow v. Transamerica Title Ins. Co (1975) 48 Cal.App.3d 917, 948, an erroneous
title of the pleading is irrelevant, and whether the pleading is amended or supplemental
is of no meaningful consequence.
 
The Court finds it is in the
interest of justice to permit Plaintiff to file the supplemental pleading.  Requiring the parties to litigate overlapping
issues in an entirely new action would be unduly time-consuming and
expensive.  That said, trial is currently
scheduled for 1/22/24, just over two months after the hearing on this
motion.  It is not reasonable to require
Defendant to prepare to defend itself against new allegations concerning mold
and asbestos within the next two months. 
As a condition of granting this motion, the Court continues the trial
date for six months, to Monday, 7/22/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The FSC is continued from 1/19/24 to 7/19/24,
also at 8:30 a.m.
 
Additionally, the Court conditions
its ruling on Plaintiff granting Defendant permission, if it chooses to do so,
to file a motion for summary adjudication of the newly-added claims concerning
mold and/or asbestos.  As a condition of
granting this motion, the parties must agree that the new allegations are the
proper subject of a potential motion for summary adjudication pursuant to CCP
§§437c(f) and (t), and the Court agrees, per §437c(t)(2), to permit the filing
of a motion for summary adjudication of the newly-added claims.  
 
If the parties submit on the
tentative, then the above-detailed conditions apply.  Plaintiff must file a separate copy of the Second
Amended (Supplemental) Complaint within ten days.  Defendant must file a responsive pleading
within the statutory time thereafter.  If
Defendant does not file a timely responsive pleading, its answer to the FAC shall
be deemed its answer to the SAC.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   