 Case Number:  21LBCV00497    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff, Jeannette Barcinas
The parties mutually selected the
date of 8/30/23 for Plaintiff’s deposition. 
Defendants timely and properly noticed the deposition.  Two days prior to the deposition, Plaintiff
indicated she would not appear. 
Defendants asked for alternative dates, and none were provided.  Defendants therefore kept the deposition on calendar,
and Plaintiff did not appear. 
Thereafter, Defendants repeatedly asked for dates for the deposition,
but none were provided.  Defendants
therefore move to compel Plaintiff’s deposition.
 
The motion to compel is
granted.  CCP §2025.450.  Counsel must meet and confer forthwith to
agree on a date, time, and location for the deposition.  If Plaintiffs’ attorney does not meaningfully
engage in the meet and confer process within the next five days, Defendants may
unilaterally set the deposition at a date, time, and location convenient to
them with proper notice per Code.  
 
The Court notes that the notice of
deposition includes a demand for production of documents, and Defendants seek
an order compelling Plaintiff to produce all identified documents at her
deposition.  The moving papers fail to
show good cause for production of the documents sought, as required by
§2025.450(b)(1).  There is no discussion
of good cause, and therefore the Court declines to enter an order compelling
Plaintiff to produce documents, but urges the parties to work together to
resolve any issues concerning documents without court intervention.
 
Defendants seek sanctions in
connection with the motion.  Sanctions are
mandatory per CCP §2025.450(g)(1).  Defendants
seek sanctions in the amount of $2120 against Plaintiff and her attorney of
record, jointly and severally.  The Court
will discuss sanctions below.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Deposition of Plaintiff, Randolph Barcinas
The parties conducted Plaintiff’s
deposition on 6/30/23.  At the deposition,
Plaintiff indicated numerous documents responsive to the document production
demand attendant to the notice of deposition existed and were in his
possession, but he did not bring them to his deposition.  The parties agreed to suspend the deposition and
continue it at a later date so Plaintiff could produce the demanded documents.
 
The parties met and conferred
concerning deposition dates, and ultimately Defendants noticed the deposition for
9/01/23.  Plaintiff did not appear at the
deposition and did not agree to extend the time for filing a motion to compel
or appear for deposition, and therefore Defendants filed this motion to compel.
 
The motion to compel is
granted.  §2025.450.  The Court notes that Defendants’ discussion
of “good cause” for production of documents is limited to one sentence at page
6, line 10 of the motion, wherein Defendants state, “There was good cause for
the production of these documents.”  The
Court finds that, because the parties expressly agreed to continue the deposition
to require Plaintiff to produce the subject documents, this is a sufficient
showing of good cause, but notes that the conclusory statement would not
otherwise constitute such a showing.  The
Court orders Plaintiff to appear at deposition and produce all responsive
documents.  As with the companion motion,
above, Counsel must meet and confer forthwith, and Defendants may unilaterally
set the deposition if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet
and confer conversation within the next five days.
 
3.     Sanctions

Sanctions are mandatory absent a
showing of good cause or substantial justification.  CCP §2025.450(g)(1).  Plaintiffs did not oppose these motions, and
therefore did not make such a showing.  
 
Defendants seek sanctions in the amounts
of $2120 (Jeannette) and $3035 (Raldolph). 
The Court finds the amounts excessive. 
The Court finds these motions are more complicated than motions to compel
initial responses to discovery, but Jeannette’s motion should not have taken
4.6 hours to draft and Randolph’s motion should not have taken 7.1 hours to draft.  The Court awards four hours of attorney time at
the associate rate of $250/hour and one hour of attorney time at the partner rate
of $410/hour to draft the motions.  No opposition
was filed and therefore no reply was necessary. 
The Court reduces the requested appearance time from 1.5 hours (Raldolph)
plus 2.8 hours (Jeannette) to a total of one hour, as the Court strongly
encourages remote appearance and finds any choice not to appear remotely to be the
choice of the moving party, which choice cannot be reasonably passed on to the opposing
party under the circumstances.  The Court
therefore awards a total of five hours of attorney time at the rate of $250/hour,
or $1250, plus one hour of attorney time at the rate of $410/hour, or $410, for
a total attorneys’ fees award of $1660. 
The Court also awards two filing fees of $60 each, or $120 in costs.
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Plaintiffs and their attorney of record, jointly and severally; they
are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through their attorney of record,
in the total amount of $1780, within twenty days.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.