 Case Number:  20LBCV00504    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background FactsPlaintiff, Tokio Marine America Insurance Company filed this action against Defendant, Prestig, Inc. for carrier liability under the Carmack Amendment.  Plaintiff filed its original complaint on 11/19/20 and its operative First Amended Complaint on 1/19/21.  Defendant filed a cross-complaint against “Kenneth Lee-Thorp DBA Freight Arrangers,” “Linda Deane Thorp DBA Freight Arrangers” and Roes 1-10 on 5/02/23.  The cross-complaint includes causes of action for breach of written contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unfair business practices, and equitable indemnity.  2.     Motion to Vacate Defaulta.     Procedural HistoryPrestige filed the cross-complaint on 5/02/23.  Prestige served the cross-complaint on Cross-Defendants on 7/23/23.  On 8/23/23, Cross-Defendants filed an answer to the cross-complaint, but the Clerk rejected it because it was filed in pro per.  On 8/24/23, at Prestige’s request, the Clerk entered Cross-Defendants’ defaults.  b.     Issue PresentedCross-Defendants move to vacate the default.  They contend the Clerk erred in rejecting their answer, as they are individuals and therefore permitted to appear in pro per.  Prestige responds to the motion, indicating it does not oppose relief from default, but believes Cross-Defendants are a partnership and therefore must be represented by an attorney.  Additionally, it contends that, to the extent Cross-Defendants are actually represented by Dennis Cammarano, the attorney for Plaintiff, Cammarano must disclose his representation so all potential conflicts can be considered and challenged if necessary. c.     AnalysisThe issue, while appearing to be simple, is actually quite nuanced.  Prestige, in its cross-complaint, sued the two individual cross-defendants as DBAs.  At ¶2 of the cross-complaint, Prestige alleges, “Cross-Defendant Kenneth Lee-Thorp and Linda Deane Thorp d/b/a Freight Arrangers…is a registered and licensed freight broker with the FMCSA with a principal place of business at 1175 Shaw Avenue, Suite 104/185 in Clovis, CA 93612.  At all times relevant to this Cross-Complaint, Freight Arrangers were not licensed and thus had no authority to undertake any activities as either a federal interstate motor carrier or freight forwarder…” Thus, in the caption of the cross-complaint, the Thorps are named as individuals who merely do business as a fictitious entity.  Then, in ¶2, they are again referred to as a dba, but the use of the singular “is” to refer to them implies they are one entity, rather than two individuals.  Then, in both ¶2 and the opposition, Prestige alleges/argues the Thorps are “registered and licensed,” which Prestige contends renders them a partnership.  However, further at ¶2, Prestige alleges Freight Arrangers is NOT licensed; additionally, Prestige uses the verb “were” instead of “was,” implying the plural two individuals, rather than the singular entity.  Prestige never alleges, anywhere in cross-complaint, that the Thorps are a partnership.  The word “partnership” appears only twice in the cross-complaint, both times at ¶4, and both times in reference to the Roe Cross-Defendants.  The Court finds Prestige alleged the two defendants are individuals who merely do business as a fictitious entity.  The Court finds Prestige failed to provide evidence, with the opposition, that the Thorps are actually an entity, especially because the cross-complaint pleads they were NOT licensed as a freight broker.  The Court therefore finds the Thorps are mere individuals, and are permitted to represent themselves in pro per if they so choose.  The motion to vacate the default is granted, and the Thorps must file a separate copy of their answer within five days.  The Court notes that Prestige also makes an argument that Dennis Cammarano, who represents Plaintiff (Tokio Marine), is actually ghost writing for the Thorps.  The Court cannot determine whether this is true.  If it is true, the Court advises Cammarano to comply with all ethical duties, which would include full disclosure of any representation, limited or otherwise, of the Thorps.  3.     Case Management ConferenceThe parties are reminded that there is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to vacate default.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the CMC and motion.