  Case Number:  19LBCP00356    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 The basic facts that
give rise to this motion are not in dispute. 
Plaintiff deposed Defendant’s employees, Melissa Brown, Kyle Laramie,
Nicole Marie Metarko, Trish Lancaster, and Shea Peffly.  During the depositions, on the record, and in
the presence of the employees, Defense Counsel indicated a willingness to
accept trial subpoenas on behalf of his client’s employees.  When Plaintiff served Counsel with the subpoenas,
Counsel indicated he was not authorized to accept the subpoenas, and he would
not produce the witnesses for Plaintiff’s case in chief at trial.  Notably, Defendant does intend to produce the
witnesses during the defense phase of the trial.
 
            The law in this regard is also not reasonably
in dispute.  In In re Abrams (1980) 108
Cal.App.3d 685, the witness served with the subpoena had been avoiding
service.  The subpoena was therefore
served on the witness’s attorney, both because the witness had designated his
attorney as his agent, and also because the witness was avoiding service.  The witness failed to appear at the civil
trial, and the trial court found the witness in contempt of court.  The Court of Appeals reversed.  It posed the following inquiry: “We must
first determine, as a matter of law, whether substituted service of a subpoena
on an attorney for a nonparty witness can ever be a valid service sufficient to
confer personal jurisdiction over the witness…” 
The Court went on to answer the question with a “no,” and also
distinguished between authority permitting service of a summons and complaint
on an attorney agent and permitting service of a subpoena, the disobeying of
which can result in criminal contempt proceedings, with a subpoena.  It concluded that there is nothing in the Code
that permits substitute service of a subpoena on a witness, and that there are
sound public policy reasons for refusing to do so.
 
            Further, and rendering the situation
even more complicated, is the undisputed law that out-of-state witnesses cannot
be compelled to testify in California by subpoena.  CCP §1989; Toyota Motor Corp. v. Superior
Court (2011) 197 CalApp.4th 1107, 1113.  Thus, it would be nonsensical for the Court
to compel the witnesses to appear simply because they were served, through
their attorney, with a subpoena, as the subpoena itself would not be
enforceable.  Plaintiff, in his reply
papers, cites numerous cases dealing with personal jurisdiction over PARTIES;
he fails, however, to cite any case applying to witnesses.  
 
            As with the issue of jurisdiction, Plaintiff
cites myriad authorities in other contexts concerning agency, but does not cite
any authority permitting substitute service on a witness by serving the witness’s
attorney.  The Court finds, therefore, that
it is without jurisdiction to order these witnesses, who are notably
out-of-state, to appear at the trial based on Defense Counsel’s agreement to accept
service on their behalf.    
 
            The Court must, therefore, turn to
the potential solutions to the problem posed. 
The Court will discus these potential solutions with the parties at the
time of the hearing.  First, Plaintiff
asks, in the moving papers, for a ruling permitting him to conduct second
sessions of the witnesses’ depositions based on “good cause” because he needs
further testimony to support his trial burden. 
This case has been pending for four years and the date for discovery
motions has passed.  The Court is not
inclined to continue the trial so Plaintiff can conduct further depositions.     
 
Plaintiff asks, in the reply papers, for an order that Defendant cannot
produce the witnesses unless Plaintiff can also produce the witnesses.  Notably, Evidence Code §776 governs “examination
of adverse party or person identified with adverse party” (so-called “hostile
witnesses”).  §776(a) permits any adverse
party to call any person identified with another party by calling the
witness.  Thus, to the extent Defendant
produces the witnesses for trial, Plaintiff is permitted to call them.  Additionally, §773 makes clear that Plaintiff
is free to cross-examine any witness called by Defendant.  
 
The Court, at the hearing on this
motion, wishes to hear from the parties concerning order of evidence and
mechanisms by which Plaintiff can examine Defendant’s witnesses.  The Court wishes to know Plaintiff’s reasons
for wishing to call these witnesses, vs. only cross-examining them.  The Court will work with the parties to
ensure a fair and mutually agreeable solution to the problem posed.  