 Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff
Courtney Brooks (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against defendants Long Beach
Memorial Medical Center (“Medical Center”), Mundi Attinasi, M.D. (“Dr.
Attinasi”), Amjuli Kumar, M.D. (“Dr. Kumar”), Glenn Levine, M.D. (“Dr. Levine”),
and Does 1 through 20, alleging a cause of action for wrongful death from
professional negligence.  On November 23,
2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).   
 
Plaintiff alleges that her daughter,
Marlee Sage Butler (“Marlee”) was born on April 8, 2020, with holoprosencephaly.  Marlee was admitted to Medical Center on July
8, 2020.  On July 15, Marlee stopped
breathing and became unresponsive and required intubation.  On July 18, 2020, after two tests for brain
death were performed, Marlee was pronounced dead.  
The SAC includes causes of action
for wrongful death (professional negligence), fraud (Levine), fraudulent
concealment (Dabagh), Aiding and Abetting Fraud (Javahery), and vicarious liability
(LBMMC).
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to
the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of
his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's
initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the
plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or
admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for
admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential
element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202
Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words,
a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an
element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually
devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably
inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64,
83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety
of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974)
11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.    
Law re: Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony. 
Id.  If the “common knowledge”
exception does not apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is
conclusive and cannot be disregarded. 
Id.  A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the
circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
c.    
Law
re: Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. 
[Citations.]  That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical 'possibility'
needs little discussion.  There can be
many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can
produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in
the absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely
than not that the injury was a result of its action.  This is the outer limit of inference upon
which an issue may be submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt (1992) 5
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
d.     Law
re: Hospital Liability for Physician Negligence
The recent case of Wicks v.
Antelope Valley Healthcare Dist. (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 866 clarified
the issue of whether and when a hospital is vicariously liable for the negligent
conduct of its independent contractor physicians.  In Wicks, the Court of Appeals affirmed the
trial court’s ruling granting the defendant hospital’s summary judgment
motion.  It held there was no ostensible
agency where the patient went to the emergency room for treatment, was conscious
and aware of his surroundings, and signed paperwork acknowledging that the
medical doctors who would treat him were independent contractors and not employees.  The Court distinguished two prior cases, one
of which concerned a patient who had been given no notice at all of the
independent contractor status, and the other of which concerned a patient who
was not physically capable of giving free consent at the time she signed the
subject papers.  
 
e.     Initial
Note re: Summary Adjudication 
Defendant indicates, in its notice
of motion, that it seeks summary judgment or summary adjudication for three
reasons.  It then lists the reasons.  It never, however, lists what issues are to
be adjudicated.  Notably, CCP §437c(f)
permits a motion for summary adjudication of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  It does not permit summary adjudication of a “reason.”  Defendant’s notice of motion never indicates which
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, and/or issues of
duty it wishes to have adjudicated.  The Court
therefore will consider only the motion for summary judgment, and not the
purported alternative motion for summary adjudication.  
 
f.      Parties’
Positions 
Defendant contends it is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law because its nurses and staff complied with the
standard of care at all times, and nothing they did caused or contributed to
Decedent’s death.  It contends it is not
liable for any negligence on the part of the physicians who treated Plaintiff
and Decedent because Plaintiff signed a consent form indicating she understood the
treating physicians were independent contractors and not agents of
Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues Defendant’s nursing staff’s care
and treatment did not comply with the standard of care.  She argues the medical records provided to
Defendant’s expert were not full and complete records.  She argues the terms of admissions contract
is contradicting.  She argues the case
should go to trial because Defendant’s staff spoliated the evidence.  
Defendant, in reply, contends it
met its moving burden, and Plaintiff failed to serve any evidence with her
opposition papers, such that any evidence submitted to the Court is
inadmissible.  It contends that, without any
evidence, Plaintiff cannot meet her burden to raise a triable issue of material
fact.  
 
g.    
Prior
Continuance
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear the motion on 9/21/23.  The Court
continued the hearing due to evidentiary issues.  The Court ordered:
·        
On or before Thursday, 10/05/23, Defendant must
file a declaration properly authenticating Plaintiff’s medical records.  Defendant must also file an updated separate
statement reflecting this additional evidence. 
Defendant must make NO OTHER CHANGES to its moving papers; the changes
are limited to a proper custodian of records declaration and corresponding
separate statement.
·        
On or before Thursday, 10/19/23, Plaintiff must
file a declaration authenticating all evidence proffered with the opposition,
and must file the evidence in a form that is viewable using the Court’s online
e-filing system.  Plaintiff must also
file a corresponding separate statement reflecting the updated evidence.  Plaintiff must make no other changes to her
opposition papers; the changes are limited to authenticating and properly
filing and serving all evidence relied upon with the opposition.
·        
On or before Thursday, 10/26/23, Defendant must
file an entirely new set of reply papers. 
The Court will not consider the previously-filed reply papers, as the
previously-filed reply papers mainly centered on the evidentiary issues
detailed above.  
 
h.    
New
Papers
On 10/04/23, Defendant filed an
updated Declaration of Myra Firth which competently provides foundation for all
medical records relied upon.  Defendant
also filed an updated separate statement which was modified to reflect the new
declaration but otherwise unchanged.
 
On 10/05/23, Plaintiff submitted a
supplemental declaration and her exhibits. 
On 10/06/23, Plaintiff filed copies of her evidence in a format that can
be viewed online.  On 10/10/23, Plaintiff
filed a response to the updated separate statement and evidentiary
objections.  
 
On 10/26/23, Defendant filed a
reply, a reply separate statement, and objections to the evidence submitted with
the opposition.  
 
i.      Objections
Plaintiff submitted objections to
the updated Firth Declaration.  The objections
are overruled on their merits; the Court finds the updated declaration sufficiently
authenticates and lays a foundation for all records, which are not hearsay.  She also submitted objections to the Goodman
Declaration, which was submitted with the moving papers.  The Court did not invite new and different
objections that could have been submitted previously, and the objections are
summarily overruled.
 
Most of Defendant’s purported
objections are to Plaintiff’s separate statement.  Objections must be directed at evidence, not separate
statements.  CRC 3.1354(b).  Those objections are therefore summarily
overruled as improper.  Defendant’s third,
eleventh, and twelfth objections are sustained; the remaining objections are
overruled.
 
j.      Moving
Burden
Defendant submitted the Expert Declaration
of Gary Goodman, M.D. with its moving papers. 
Goodman establishes his expert credentials, details the medical records
he reviewed, provides the chronology of Decedent’s care and treatment, and
ultimately concludes nothing Defendant’s nursing staff did or fell below the
standard of care and/or caused or contributed to Decedent’s death.  Defendant also establishes that the doctors
working at its facility were not employees, and that Plaintiff was aware of
this at the time of admission.  
 
Defendant therefore met its moving
burden to show that its staff was not negligent, and that it is not liable for
any negligence on the part of its treating physicians.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable
issue of material fact.
 
k.     Shifted
Burden
Plaintiff makes numerous arguments
in opposition to the motion, each of which will be considered in turn.
 
Plaintiff first argues various
aspects of Decedent’s care were not noted in Decedent’s medical chart.  Plaintiff provides no expert declaration,
however, indicating what aspects of care must be noted in a chart and what
aspects of care are typically left out of a chart.  The Court has no independent knowledge in
this regard.  Plaintiff failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact.
 
Plaintiff next argues Defendant breached
the standard of care in numerous ways.  As
noted above, breach of the standard of care is the exclusive province of expert
witnesses.  Because there is no expert
witness, Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning
standard of care.  
 
Plaintiff next argues the set of
medical records Dr. Goodman relied upon is not the same set of medical records
she received.  Plaintiff fails, however,
to detail any specific alterations between the two sets of records that would render
the records deficient or falsified.  
 
Plaintiff goes on to contend that
Dr. Goodman does not state the basis upon which he concludes that Defendant met
the standard of care.  The Court has read
and considered Dr. Goodman’s declaration, and finds Dr. Goodman adequately detailed
the care and treatment by Defendant’s nursing staff as well as his reasons for
his conclusions.  
 
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s
conditions of admission contract and medical staff application are
contradicting.  As noted above, Defendant’s
objection to the medical staff application is sustained.  Plaintiff did not lay a foundation for the
document and it is unclear what the document is or from where it was procured.  
 
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact.  
 
l.      Conclusion
Defendant met its moving burden to
show it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact.  The motion is therefore
granted.
 
LBMMC is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.