 Case Number:  22LBCV00375    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 Defendant has noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition on two occasions.  Defendant
first noticed the deposition for 5/25/23; prior to the deposition, Plaintiff
objected on the ground that the date was not available, and Defendant withdrew
the demand.  Defendant then noticed the deposition
for 8/23/23.  Plaintiff failed to appear
on 8/23/23, and Defendant filed this motion. 

 
The motion to compel is denied for
two reasons.  
 
First, CCP §2025.450(b)(2) requires
the moving party to include a declaration “stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  Defense Counsel declares he sent a case
management conference letter to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff failed to
respond.  Defense Counsel also declares he
indicated, at the 9/14/23 CMC, that he intended to file a motion to compel, and
the Court ordered him to give notice to Plaintiff, which he did.  The two documents are attached to the moving
papers as Exhibits H and I.  The Court
has reviewed Exhibits H and I, and neither document complies with the meet and
confer requirement.  Exhibit H merely
indicates Defendant is attaching a case management conference statement and Plaintiff
should contact Defendant if she disagrees with the substance of the statement
or the proposed filing.  Exhibit I shows
Defendant gave notice that the Court scheduled a hearing on Defendant’s motion
to compel deposition for 11/09/23.  Nothing
in either document shows Defense Counsel “contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  
 
Additionally, the Court notes that
the notice of deposition includes a demand for production of documents.  It is not clear whether Defendant moves to
compel Plaintiff to produce the subject documents at deposition, as the motion
does not discuss production of documents. 
The moving papers fail to show good cause for production of the
documents sought, as required by §2025.450(b)(1).  There is no discussion of good cause, and
therefore the motion is denied on this ground as well.  
 
Because the motion is denied, the
request for sanctions is also denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   