 Case Number:  23LBCV00489    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Prior
Hearing and Continuance
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories on 9/07/23.  Prior to the
hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling requiring the parties to meet and
confer with the Court’s prior similar discovery orders in mind.  Plaintiff appeared at the hearing; Defendant
did not.  The Court ultimately adopted
its tentative ruling and continued the hearing on the motion to 11/09/23.  The Court ordered the parties to prepare a
joint statement re: SROGs remaining in dispute. 
The Court also ordered the parties to continue to meet and confer
concerning RPDs, which were scheduled for hearing on 11/09/23, and to submit a
joint statement of RPDs remaining in dispute as well.  
 
2.     Joint
Statements
On 10/30/23, Plaintiff filed joint
statements of items remaining in dispute re: SROGs and RPDs.  Only one RPD remains in dispute, but SROGs
4-8 and 15-18 all remain in dispute.  
 
3.     RPDs
RPD 22 seeks production of all
email communications discussing possible countermeaseures in response to the exhaust
defect in Chevy Vehicles during the applicable time frame.  The RPD goes on to define countermeasures to
mean any course of action taken in response to an identified concern, whether in
the form of a repair bulletin, a dealer informational bulletin, a service
bulletin, a field action, a warranty extension, etc.  
 
Defendant, in response to the RPD, correctly
notes that the RPD, as written, is not limited just to 2020 Chevrolet Silverado
1500 vehicles.  Defendant also contends
the RPD is not limited in time.  In
Plaintiff’s original RPDs, attached as Exhibit 5 to the moving papers,
Plaintiff defined “applicable time frame” to mean the time period from the date
of manufacture of the subject vehicle to the present.  
 
The Court finds the RPD must be
limited to emails referring to exhaust defects in 2020 Chevrolet Silverado 1500
vehicles.  The request will necessarily
be time-limited to emails from the date of production of such vehicles to the
present.  
 
Defendant also argues the RPD seeks
confidential, proprietary, and commercially sensitive information that may
contain trade secrets.  Defendant does
not expand on this contention, and therefore fails to justify the objection,
which is overruled.
 
Defendant must serve further responses,
without objection.  The RPD will be deemed
limited in scope as discussed above.  
4.     SROGs
Defendant’s main contention, in
response to the SROGs at issue, is that Plaintiff should only be permitted to
discover information about the specific vehicle that forms the basis of this
action.  This Court has rejected that
position repeatedly in connection with prior motions to compel involving
GM.  The Court has repeatedly held that
Defendant must provide information regarding all similar defects in vehicles of
the same make, model, and year. 
Defendant must do so in response to these SROGs as well, and Defendant’s
objections are overruled.
 
With respect to various SROGs,
Defendant also asserts Plaintiff is seeking “discovery on discovery.”  It is not clear what this means, and the
Court is not familiar with it as an objection to a discovery request.  These objections are therefore also
overruled.
 
5.     Sanctions

The Court previously indicated it
would be inclined to impose sanctions on both attorneys, payable to the other attorney’s
client, if the attorneys were unable to resolve these disputes after reviewing
the Court’s prior similar rulings.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has acted
reasonably in connection with this dispute, and Defendant has not.  Plaintiff did not, in the original moving papers,
seek imposition of sanctions against Defendant. 
The Court will not impose sanctions in light of Plaintiff’s failure to
request sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.