 Case Number:  23VECV04042    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04042 Honcharenko v
Zeven
FORM OF A PROPOSED ORDER:Grant as to RFPs nos 1, 2, and 3, deny as to 4.
As to Exhibits, the court does
not want to attach exhibits to the court's final order.
1.           ANZHELA HONCHARENKO (Plaintiff) shall
use the I-Phone ESI Extraction kit” (the kit) that CONSILIO, LLC, a limited
liability company or other form of business entity qualified to do  Business in the State of California
(Consilio), had previously provided to her and otherwise cooperate with
Consilio in making her I-Phone available so Consilio can accomplish the
extraction from her I-Phone (the extraction) at its earliest opportunity.
2.           Consilio shall reasonably cooperate
with Plaintiff with respect to offering any needed guidance with respect to
Plaintiffs utilization of the kit and otherwise facilitating the extraction.
3.
          The extraction will be subject
to the terms and conditions of that certain Protective Order to which the Court
had ordered Plaintiff and Defendant to adhere on August 1, 2024 (“the
Protective Order”). Any and all materials from the extraction that are to be
delivered to Defendant by Plaintiff--as more particularly described in
Paragraphs 9 and 10 below--shall be deemed “confidential” as defined in the
Protective Order. Should Defendant wish to challenge the confidential status as
to any of the aforementioned materials, Defendant shall do so in accordance
with the process described in the Protective Order.
4.
          Once the extraction shall have
been completed upon the parameters as set forth below (the parameters),
Consilio shall forward the extraction to Plaintiffs counsel only via email. As
to the format of the extraction that Consilio will be providing to Plaintiff,
it will appear in size and readability as represented by defense counsel  so that its contents may be printed on
8.5"x 11" paper. Each page will be sequentially bate stamped by
Consilio and, subject to Paragraphs 9 and 10 below, capable of being easily
edited as in a Word document by highlighting and deleting. Following editing.
Plaintiff shall deliver the extraction to Defendant {DEFENSE COUNSEL?}as
a pdf. As used in this Order, Defendant shall refer, collectively to ALEK
ZEVEN, an individual, and to ZEVEN LAW FIRM, a California business entity form
unknown conducting business in California.
5.
          Except as provided for in
Paragraph 6 below, the extraction shall be limited to the time-frame beginning
March 15, 2023, and continuing up through and including the date of the
extraction as to all persons identified _______.
6.           The extraction will include and be
limited to the following: text message exchanges, WhatsApp exchanges, and any
other electronic media exchanges as between Plaintiff and the persons at the
cell phone numbers identified on ______. Plaintiffs GPS data is to be limited
to the time-frame beginning March 15, 2023, and ending May 31, 2023.
7.           The extraction will not be reviewed
by Consilio except for the purpose of establishing that the extraction was
completed as described above. To the extent Consilio should become aware of the
contents of any of the communications, GPS data, or call logs with respect to
the extraction, it shall keep such contents in strictest confidentiality.
8.           Consilio shall maintain the
extraction until such time as it shall either have received mutual instructions
from Plaintiff and Defendant to destroy it or until such time as it shall have
been ordered to do by the court. Should Defendant wish output from the
extraction in addition to that previously provided to it by Plaintiff, then
Consilio shall make such additional output available to both parties such
additional output only a) upon its receipt of mutual instructions from both
Plaintiff and Defendant or b) as ordered by the Court.
9.           Any and all communications as between
Plaintiff on the one hand and Alek Zeven and Valeiy Zivsikh on the other shall
be forwarded by Plaintiff to Defendant without editing.
10.        Any and all communications as between
Plaintiff on the one hand and all persons identified in _______ with the
exception of Alek Zeven and Valery Zivsikh shall be edited by Plaintiff as
follows prior to their being forwarded to Defendant: only those communications
in which Alek Zeven is specifically mentioned and/or otherwise identified and
those communications in which Plaintiff s mental and/or emotional state is
discussed by anyone will be forwarded by Plaintiff.
11.        The ESI will be forwarded by Consilio to
Plaintiff s legal counsel by e-mail with separate e-mails for each of the
19 persons and cell phone numbers identified on Exhibit 1 arranged
chronologically (from the earliest date until the latest date).{WHAT DOES THIS
MEAN?} In the event that the transmission of the total number of
e-mails for any one person should require in excess of 10 mb, such transmission
shall be divided into more than one transmission.
12.        All of the call logs will be
included in separate e-mails, and all of the GPS data will also be included in
separate e-mails. Consilio has represented that “[t]he image is
collected by completely imaging the phone. However, a targeted report can be
generated that does not include locations / GPS data.” It follows, therefore,
that a targeted report can be generated that does not include anything other
than “locations/GPS data” and call logs.
13.        Once Plaintiff shall be in receipt of
the extraction, her attorneys will undertake the editing process as described
in Paragraph 11 above. Consilio has represented that it will be feasible for a
knowledgeable operator to remove those pages or sections of pages that are not
to be included in the transmission to Defendant. To the extent, therefore, that
the editing of the extraction as delivered to Plaintiff involves an effort
greater than highlighting and deleting on a Word document, Consilio and
Defendant will reasonably cooperate with Plaintiff’s technical personnel, prior
to undertaking the extraction, by offering guidance as to the editing process
to the extent such is reasonably necessary.{WHY SHOULD DEFENDANT PAY FOR
THIS?}
14          The parties shall reasonably cooperate
with one another to expedite the processes described above with reasonable
dispatch. Any and all costs billed by Consilio pursuant to this Stipulation
shall be borne by Defendant. {THE COURT QUESTIONS THIS} Plaintiff
shall be responsible for any and all costs related to her technical personnel. 
 