  Case Number:  19TRCV00222    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Monday, October 16, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar No.  6   
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Preethi Sekar, et al. v. Citadel Re and Investments, LLC,
et al. 
19TRCV00222
1.      Preethi Sekar, et al.’s
Motion for Order of Production of Imprisoned Defendant Carl Bao Le  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Preethi Sekar, et al.’s
Motion for Order of Production of Imprisoned Defendant Carl Bao Le is denied
without prejudice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint
on February 28, 2019, and the First Amended Complaint was filed on December 26,
2019. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Defendant Citadel Re and
Investments, LLC (“Citadel”) owes Plaintiffs on various promissory notes.  In addition, Defendants Citadel and Carl Le
fraudulently induced the loans. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of
action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Fraud.
 
Motion to
Produce Prisoner as Witness
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1995 states: 
            “If the witness be a prisoner,
confined in a jail within this state, an order for his examination in the jail
upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a court or
officer may be made as follows:
1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court.
2. By a justice of the Supreme Court, or a judge of
the superior court of the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if
pending before a small claims court, or before a judge or other person out of
court.”
 
“Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality.” Code Civ. Proc., § 1996.
 
“If the witness be imprisoned in a jail in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, his production may be required. In
all other cases his examination, when allowed, must be taken upon deposition.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 1997.
 
Pen. Code, § 1567 states: 
 
“When it is necessary to have a person imprisoned in
the state prison brought before any court, or a person imprisoned in a county
jail brought before a court sitting in another county, an order for that
purpose may be made by the court and executed by the sheriff of the county
where it is made. The order shall be signed by the judge or magistrate and
sealed with the seal of the court, if any. The order shall be to the following
effect:
County of ______ (as the case may be).
The people of the State of California to the warden of
______ (or sheriff of ______, as the case may be):
An order having been made this day by me, that A.B. be
produced in this court as witness in the case of ______, you are commanded to
deliver him or her into the custody of ______.
Dated this ______ day of ______, 19__.”
 
Plaintiffs move for an order for production of
defendant Carl Bao Le from state prison to be brought before this court for the
trial to take place on December 6, 7, and 8, 2023, pursuant to California Penal
Code §1567.
 
Pen. Code, § 2623 states: 
 
“If in a civil action or special proceeding a witness
be a prisoner, confined in a state prison within this state, an order
for the prisoner's examination in the prison by deposition may be made.
1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court.
2. By a judge of the superior court of the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, if pending before a small claims
court or before a judge or other person out of court.
Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality. The deposition, when ordered,
shall be taken in accordance with Section 2622.”
 
Plaintiffs have shown that Carl Bao Le is imprisoned
in state prison. Thus, pursuant to CCP § 1997 and Penal Code § 2623, he can
only be examined by deposition in that prison. In addition, Plaintiffs have not
provided an affidavit “showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the
testimony expected from the witness, and its materiality” pursuant to Penal
Code § 2623 and CCP § 1996. The declaration submitted in connection with this
motion did not set forth the required facts under these Code sections but simply
provided the current location of Defendant.
 
Thus, the motion for production of imprisoned
defendant is denied. The motion is denied without prejudice to a filing of a
proper motion for deposition pursuant to Penal Code § 2623.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.