 Case Number:  19TRCV00487    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Monday, October 16, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 7 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Diamond Quality Builders, Inc. v. Sayo
Sasaki, et al.
            19TRCV00489
1.      Diamond
Quality Builders, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Answer and Enter Default     
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Diamond Quality Builders, Inc.’s
Motion to Strike Answer and Enter Default is denied.  
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed its Complaint on June 3, 2019.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant failed to make payment on a
home improvement project completed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the following
causes of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Services Rendered; 3. Unjust
Enrichment; 4. Quantum Meruit; 5. Open Book Account; 6. Foreclosure of
Mechanic’s Lien; 7. Intentional Misrepresentation; 8. Negligent
Misrepresentation. Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint. Sayo Sasaki passed away
on March 2, 2022.
 
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 435.5. 
(Suppl. Decl., Yossi Noudel.)  
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Plaintiff moves for an order to strike Defendant’s
Answer and to enter Defendant’s default. The motion is made on the grounds that
Defendant passed away and that Defendant’s estate requires an attorney to
represent it.  
 
As with demurrers, the grounds for a motion to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading under attack, or upon matters to which
moving party properly requests judicial notice. No extrinsic evidence can be
offered in support of a motion to strike such as the initial declaration that
was submitted by moving party herein.  CCP
§ 437; CPF Agency Corp. v. R&S Towing Service (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
1014, 1032.  Here, the motion is only
supported by extrinsic evidence which cannot be considered when reviewing a
motion to strike. Defendant did not
request judicial notice of any matter upon which the Court can consider in
connection with this motion to strike.
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike is denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.