 Case Number:  22STCV19488    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GILBERT
  GUERRERO                     Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FRANKLIN VLADIMIR LOPEZ ALAS., et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV19488
 
[TENTATIVE] MOTION
  TO CONTINUE IS GRANTED
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 6, 2024






 
On June
15, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present case. The trial is presently scheduled
for January 27, 2025. Defendant seeks to continue the trial date to July 2025, citing
several grounds. First, Defendant notes outstanding discovery and unresolved
discovery disputes, including an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) concerning
discovery propounded in April 2024. Second, Defendant highlights Plaintiff’s recent spinal cord
stimulator trial, which necessitates further medical discovery, such as updated
medical records and related subpoenas. Additionally, Defendant indicates that
its expert cannot conduct the Independent Medical Examination (IME) until
January 2025.  Defendant also points out that Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment, filed in August 2024, is scheduled for a hearing
in June 2025—after the current trial date. Lastly, Defendant explains that new
counsel recently assumed representation and requests additional time to prepare
for trial. 
 
This case
is beyond the two-year mark. Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.714(b),
motor vehicle accident cases such as this should be resolved within two years.
Defendant’s discovery and any related disputes should have been resolved by now
had Defendant acted diligently. While Defendant claims that new counsel’s
involvement warrants additional time; however, the new counsel is from the same
law firm and assumed responsibility for the case on May 1, 2024. Counsel should
have had ample time to familiarize him or herself with the case and should have
been aware of all deadlines prior to inheriting the matter. Additionally, in personal injury cases,
ongoing medical treatment, including surgeries and other procedures, is a
common occurrence. The fact that Plaintiff recently underwent a spinal cord
stimulator trial does not, by itself, justify a continuance.
Having
said that, Plaintiff timely filed a motion for summary adjudication in August
2024, with a hearing date set for June 3, 2025. Under such circumstances, Plaintiff is entitled to have the motion heard
before trial and Defendant must be afforded the statutory timeframe to file an
opposition. (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 52.)
On that
basis, the Court will allow a limited continuance of the trial to April ___, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is advanced to March 10, 2025, at 1:30
p.m. All case related deadlines to follow the new trial date.
 
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 