 Case Number:  22STCV21379    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DAVID BRIAN RIOS
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21379
 
[TENTATIVE] MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER IS DENIED
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 6, 2024






This
case arises from a slip-and-fall accident that occurred on June 6, 2021, at
5655 Halbrent Avenue, Van Nuys, California 91411 (hereinafter, “the subject
Premises”). Plaintiff David Rios (hereinafter, “Plaintiff”) was injured while
attempting to board an Access vehicle owned, maintained, controlled, and/or
operated by Defendants. Plaintiff now moves the court to compel further
responses from Defendant Access Services.
·       
On June 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed his
Complaint.
·       
On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff propounded
an initial set of requests for production on Defendant Access Services. 
·       
On November 23, 2022, Defendant provided
its responses
·       
Defendant’s responses to the discovery
at issue consists of the following identical objections: “the requests are
overbroad, burdensome, and oppressive; unlimited as to time and scope; vague,
ambiguous, unintelligible, and uncertain; seek information equally available to
both parties; seek irrelevant information and are not reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence; and violate the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work-product doctrine.”
·       
During Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable (PMK) deposition taken on November 5, 2024, Plaintiff learned of
the existence of an incident report that is purportedly responsive to Requests
for Production, Set One, Nos. 4, 5, 13, and 16. Plaintiff now moves the Court
to compel further responses to these requests. 
Timeliness
A
motion to compel a further response to a request for production must be noticed
within 45 days of the service of the response, or any supplemental response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.  Otherwise, the propounding party
waives any right to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c); see also Sexton v. Superior Court
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses. However, the responses were served in 2022,
well beyond the 45-day period to file a motion to compel further responses, and
there is no indication that the parties agreed in writing to extend the 45-day
deadline.
IDC 
Personal
Injury Hub Courts will not entertain Motions to Compel Further Discovery
Responses until the parties have participated in an Informal Discovery
Conference (IDC). (Eighth Amended Standing Order For Procedures In The Personal
Injury Hub Court at p. 7.) The Court may either deny or continue a Motion to
Compel Further Responses to discovery if the parties do not schedule and
complete an IDC prior to the hearing date set for a Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Discovery. (Id.)¿ 
The
parties are required to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC)
to attempt to resolve any outstanding discovery disputes before a motion to
compel further can be heard. No IDC has been held or scheduled prior to the
hearing or filing of the present motion.
The
motion is denied because it does not appear timely and the moving party has not
complied with the court’s IDC requirement. 
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 