  Case Number:  23STCV08513    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  52 The Brinton Firm, PC’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiffs
Matthew L. Brinton of The
Brinton Firm, PC moves to be relieved as counsel for plaintiffs Brenda J. Core
and Jamar Brown-Core.  “To protect the
best interests of the client, a trial court should have broad discretion in
allowing attorneys to withdraw,” such as when “the relationship between” lawyer
and client has “completely broken down.”  (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d
1004, 1014.)  But “[t]he right of counsel
to withdraw from pending litigation is not absolute.”  (Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54 Cal.App.3d
192, 197.)  Courts have “discretion to
deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where such withdrawal would work an
injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding.”  (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67
Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)  
Brinton’s declaration
states, “The attorney-client relationship has broken down in this matter, due
to the clients’ failure to follow counsel’s advice on numerous material matters
and conflicts between counsel and the clients concerning case strategy.”  (Brinton Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff Brenda J. Core served and filed a
response to Brinton’s motion.  She
asserts the breakdown in the attorney-client relationship revolves around one
issue: she “declined the settlement offer of $60,000,” and Brinton does not want
to go to trial.     
After considering all
relevant factors, the court finds Brinton has not shown sufficient grounds to
be relieved as counsel.  He also has not
shown “he has taken reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice
to the rights of the client, such as giving the client sufficient notice to
permit the client to retain other counsel.” 
(Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(d).)  Plaintiffs filed this action on April 17,
2023.  The trial is set for November 6,
2024.  Permitting plaintiffs’ counsel to
withdraw this soon before trial is likely to prejudice plaintiffs or unduly
delay the trial.  Moreover, plaintiff
Brenda J. Core lives in Arlington, Texas. 
(Brinton Decl., ¶ 3.b(d).)  Her distance
from this venue may reduce the likelihood of plaintiffs finding another
attorney to represent them.  
Matthew L. Brinton of The
Brinton Firm, PC’s motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiffs is denied.