 Case Number:  23STCV10162    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
4-24-24
Case
#23STCV10162
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
MEDICAL SUBPOENA
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Skyhop Global, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Alexis Craney-Foster
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Medical Records
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Alexis Craney-Foster was an employee of defendant
SkyHop Global LLC from January 8, 2021, through September 27, 2022, as an
airport shuttle driver for airport employees. During the course of employment,
Plaintiff alleges defendant Timothy Boykin began a course of sexually
inappropriate comments and touching. On June 5, 2021, Boykin visited her home,
where he non-consensually engaged in sexual intercourse with Plaintiff while
Plaintiff was intoxicated and incapacitated in her home after normal work
hours.
 
Plaintiff complained about the conduct of Boykin, which
led, at least in part to his dismissal. New supervisor defendant Eros Surla
also allegedly engaged in sexually harassing conduct.

Plaintiff again complained, and was promised $50,000 in exchange for the
execution for a settlement agreement. Plaintiff refused. Plaintiff continued to
report the inappropriate conduct of Surla, but was told no relief was
available. Plaintiff was subsequently terminated. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 17 cause of action
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assault and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation
of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; and, Breach of Contract in
Violation of Civil Code Section 1549. On September 5, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action in the complaint with leave to
amend. 
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 16 cause of action first
amended complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assualt and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; 13; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; 15. Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
and, Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5. On December 14,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the
first amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike allegations in regard
to the conduct of Boykin without leave to amend.
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid Pro Quo
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment – Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation
of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual Assault
and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7;
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226;
Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203; and, Failure to
Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; Breach of Contract in Violation of
Civil Code Section 1549.
 
On April 10, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of
SkyHop without leave to amend as to the to seventh cause of action for sexual
assault and battery, and overruled the remainder of the demurrer. The court
granted the motion to strike the seventeenth cause of action with
prejudice/without leave to amend, and denied the remainder of the motion.
SkyHop answered the second amended complaint on April 19, 2024.
 
RULING: Granted.
SkyHop
Global, LLC (SkyHop) moves to compel compliance with medical records subpoena
served on third parties Apex Group Therapy Group and Exodus Urgent Care Center.
The court electronic filing system shows no opposition on file at the time of
the tentative ruling publication cutoff. SkyHop filed a notice of
non-opposition.
 
Prior
to the filing of the motion, SkyHop requested HIPPA releases, which Plaintiff
refused to execute. Subpoenas were subsequently served on the medical
providers, and denied on the basis of lack of authorization. The instant motion
was subsequently filed. [Declaration of Regina Agopian, ¶¶ 8-9, 12.]
 
“If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b)
... may make an order … directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).)
 
“[T]he mere
filing of a lawsuit does not trigger application of the patient-litigant
exception.” (Patterson v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 927, 930.) A patient may
continue to exercise a reasonable expectation of privacy of their medical
information if the information is not directly relevant to a particular
condition the patient placed in issue. (California
Consumer Health Care Council v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 21, 31.) “‘The patient thus is not obligated to sacrifice all
privacy to seek redress for a specific mental or emotional injury; the scope of
the inquiry permitted depends upon the nature of the injuries which the
patient-litigant himself has brought before the court.’” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864.) “‘The party
seeking the constitutionally protected information has the burden of
establishing that the information sought is directly relevant to the claims.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]”  (See Barrenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65
Cal. App. 4th 794, 801-802.) The standard for good cause requires the moving
party to produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit… [¶] … On occasion her privacy
interests may have to give way to her opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus
courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts
against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery.” (Id. at p. 842.) 
 
Plaintiff’s medical emotional medical state was placed in
issue through the filing of the subject action and damages claim, thereby
providing SkyHop with the right to examine Plaintiff’s medical history prior to,
during and after the time of the incident(s). [Agopian Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.] It is presumed from the discovery
responses that at least some of the subject records directly relate to the
anguish caused by the underlying incidents. Plaintiff presents no opposition
otherwise seeking to limit production or other privileges. (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d
415, 439; Patterson v. Superior Court,
supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at pp. 931-932;
see Evid. Code, § 1016, subd. (a).)
 
The court finds no reasonable alternatives for discovery of
the information exists. Defendants therefore present a basis for production of
the records. The motion to compel compliance with the subpoena is therefore
granted. Records are limited to production relating directly the subject action
(e.g. subsequent to the incident), but may include prior records for purposes
of establishing noticeable changes following the course of events, if
applicable. Any range of records shall not exceed five years prior to the first
claim.
 
SkyHop to arrange for service, compliance and production of
the records pursuant to the order compelling production pursuant to the
subpoenas.
 
SkyHop makes no request for sanctions. “[I]n making an order
pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section
1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2.)
 
Multiple motions to quash will be heard on June 11 and 13,
2024, as well as the Case Management Conference.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 