 Case Number:  23STCV15571    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  73 6/04/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JANET DIXON v. THE PEOPLE CONCERN (23STCV15571) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Janet Dixon (Pro Per) 
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Norman Ayotte (Jones & Ayotte) 
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO RECLASSIFY ACTION (filed 10/26/2023) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendant’s Motion to
Reclassify Action is DENIED without prejudice.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 5, 2023,
Plaintiff Janet Dixon filed the instant action against Defendant The People
Concern. 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. Plaintiff is currently a resident of Defendant The People
Concern, which is a temporary housing shelter. (Compl., p.
1.) Plaintiff informed Defendant’s staff that she does
not eat meat, such as beef, chicken or turkey. (Ibid.) On April 27,
2023, a member of Defendant’s staff served Plaintiff dinner that contained
chicken. (Compl., pp. 1-2.) The staff told
Plaintiff the chicken was vegan. (Compl., p. 2.) However, Plaintiff alleges the chicken was not vegan and
that after eating the food, she became very ill. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges she was ill 3 days following the incident and it took her a day and a
half to recover. (Ibid.) She alleges that she reported the issue to
Defendant’s staff, but they still continue to serve her meat. (Ibid.)
 
On April 3,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a Proposed
Complaint. The Court ordered Plaintiff to file a stand-alone amended complaint
by April 12, 2024. 
 
On
October 26, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Reclassify Action, arguing:
·       Defendant
claims to have good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier. Defendant asserts
that initial discovery needed to be conducted to assess Plaintiff’s claimed
damages.
·       Plaintiff’s
discovery answers show that her claimed damages fall below the $25,000
jurisdictional minimum.
 
On
November 20, 2024, Defendant filed a reply stating that Plaintiff failed to
file an opposition and that failure to file an opposition may be deemed a
consent to the granting of a motion.
 
On
November 20, 2024, Plaintiff failed a late opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendant
violated sections of the Sherman Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Law which has
statutory penalties. Thus, Plaintiff asserts Defendant is liable for statutory
damages in the total amount of $55,000, not including Plaintiff’s other
damages, including pain and suffering.
 
On
May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed another opposition labeled as a “Reply” to
Defendant’s motion, arguing that if Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file First
Amended Complaint is granted, Defendant’s instant motion would be void. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
“If a party files a motion for reclassification after the
time for that party . . . to respond to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other
initial pleading, the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for
reclassification only if both the following conditions are satisfied: [¶] (1)
The case is incorrectly classified [, and] [¶] (2) The moving party shows good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿403.040,
subd. (b).)¿ 
 
“A party seeking to reclassify a case from unlimited to
limited faces a “high threshold.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court¿(2005) 129
Cal.App.4th 266, 278.) The trial court must conclude “that the verdict will
‘necessarily’ fall short of the superior court jurisdictional requirement of a
claim exceeding $25,000.” (Walker v. Superior Court¿(1991) 53 Cal.3d
257, 270 (Walker); Code Civ. Proc., §¿85, subd. (a) [amending statute to
provide that a limited civil case is one in which the amount of controversy
does not exceed $35,000].) The trial court may believe it highly unlikely that
plaintiff will recover the amount demanded, but this is not enough to defeat
jurisdiction, unless it appears to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount of the
demand.  (Id. at 270.)  
 
“The¿unlikeliness¿of a judgment in excess of $25,000 is¿not
the test.¿The trial court reviews the record to determine whether the
result is obtainable. Simply stated, the trial court looks to the possibility
of a jurisdictionally appropriate verdict, not to its probability.” (Maldonado
v. Superior Court¿(1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 397, 402 (Maldonado); Hiona
v. Superior Ct. of City & Cnty. of San Francisco (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th
866, 872.)  Thus, the court evaluates the amount fairly in controversy; it
does not adjudicate the merits of the claim. (Chahal v. Superior Court
(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 399, 402 (Chahal).) 
 
B.     
Timeliness of Plaintiff’s Opposition
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff failed to
timely file her opposition.
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
Here, the hearing in this matter was originally set for November
29, 2023. Plaintiff’s opposition was due by November 15, 2024. However, Plaintiff
did not file and serve her opposition until November 20, 2024. Defendant did
not file a Reply responding to the arguments raised in Plaintiff’s late filed
opposition. Thus, the Court, in its discretion, declines to consider arguments
raised in Plaintiff’s late filed opposition.
 
C.     
Discussion
Defendant
moves to reclassify this action as a limited civil case on the ground that the
amount in controversy cannot possibly exceed $25,000. Because Defendant has
already answered the Complaint, Defendant must make two showings: (1) a showing
of good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier and (2) a showing that
the case is incorrectly classified.
a.       Good Cause 
 
Defendant claims to have good cause for not seeking
reclassification earlier. Defendant asserts that initial discovery needed to be
conducted to assess Plaintiff’s claimed damages. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s
discovery answers demonstrate her claimed damages fall below the $25,000
requirement. (Motion, Ex. 2.) It appears that Defendant received Plaintiff’s
discovery answers on September 21, 2023. Defendant filed this motion on October
26, 2023. Since Defendant filed this action promptly after receiving
Plaintiff’s discovery answers, the Court finds Defendant has shown good cause
for not seeking reclassification earlier.
 
b.      Propriety of
Classification
 
Next, the Court evaluates Defendant’s
showing that this action is incorrectly classified.
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s damages fall below the $25,000 jurisdictional minimum
because her discovery answers revealed that she did not receive healthcare in
connection with the incident and she did not identify any health care expenses.
Defendant asserts Plaintiff also did not identify any loss of earnings as a
result of the incident or any special damages incurred. 
 
However,
Defendant has not sufficiently shown that Plaintiff’s general damages would not
meet the jurisdictional minimum. Plaintiff’s Complaint states the incident
caused her to experience “terrible aches and pains throughout [her] body,
diarrhea, intense migraines and nausea.” (Complaint, p. 2.) In addition, Plaintiff’s
discovery answers state she has suffered emotional distress. (Motion, Ex. 2.) For
example in response to Form Interrogatory 6.2, Plaintiff states that from the
incident, she attributes “emotional distress, including but not limited to an
increase in anxiety and paranoia.” (Ibid.) Also, in response to Form
Interrogatory 6.1, Plaintiff states she had a “heightened sense of anxiety when
receiving meals that the plaintiff heavily relied on at the time; causing the
plaintiff to have emotional outbursts towards staff members that involved
yelling, crying, and having panic attacks when alone when the plaintiff would
receive plates that contained meat but were described to be vegan.” (Ibid.) These
are factors that must be considered by the fact-finder in considering damages
for pain, suffering, and emotional distress. Defendant has not presented any evidence or support
that to a legal certainty, a fact-finder would find that Plaintiff’s pain,
suffering and emotional distress damages would not exceed $25,000. At this
stage, the Court is not evaluating the likeliness of a judgment in excess of
$25,000, but whether the result is possible. (Maldonado, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at 402.)
 
Thus, Defendant’s motion to reclassify is denied without prejudice.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s
motion to reclassify is DENIED without prejudice.