  Case Number:  20STCV33002    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON
MOTIONS IN LIMINE   
 
Nguyen, et
al. v. Robertsons Transport, et al., Case No. 20STCV33002 
Hearing
Date: September 13, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motions in Limine Nos. 1 through 10 
 
P MIL No. 1 (medical hearsay without foundation): DWOP. Failure
to identify specific evidence sought to be excluded. LASC Rule 3.57(a)(1) 
P MIL No. 2 (prior medical conditions unrelated to body
parts injured): DWOP. Failure to identify specific evidence sought to be
excluded. LASC Rule 3.57(a)(1) 
P MIL No. 3 (sub rosa / surveillance evidence): DWOP.
Failure to identify specific evidence sought to be excluded. LASC Rule
3.57(a)(1) 
P MIL No. 4 (attorney referral to physician / physician
lien): Granted at this time in the absence of specifics. (Evid. Code sec. 352) However,
a ruling on a motion in limine is by its nature not final and remains open to
reconsideration during trial. (People v. Yarbrough (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d
1650, 1655 ["[I]n limine rulings are not binding because the trial court
has the power to reconsider, modify or set aside its order at any time prior to
the submission of the cause."].) If Defendants are asserting that certain medical
bills are excessive or otherwise improper, there may be sufficient probative
value - as to those bills - to allow the jury to hear about these issues sought
to be excluded to the extent they show bias or might explain why the bills are
in the amount sought. 
 P MIL No. 5
(Plaintiffs’ health insurance, treatment on lien basis): Counsel are ordered to
meet and confer as to Defendants’ proposed stipulation to allow for Defendants
to test the reasonableness of bills while avoiding reference to insurance per
se. 
P MIL No. 6 (Plaintiffs’ lawful use of alcohol or cannabis):
Denied. To the extent any of the plaintiffs are contending that they are using
cannabis or alcohol due to the injuries they sustained, but there is also
evidence of use prior to the accident, then this evidence is relevant to show
the extent of the damages attributable to the accident. In addition, under
Evid. Code sec. 352, the Court does not find that the jury hearing about such
use would necessarily be highly prejudicial to plaintiffs. 
 
P MIL No. 7 (Nguyen’s pregnancy, postpartum depression): Denied.
To the extent any of the plaintiff is contending severe emotional distress due
to the injuries she sustained, but there is also evidence of some other
potential cause for continuing depression or the like, then this evidence is
relevant to show the extent of the damages attributable to the accident. (That
said, this does not mean that Defendants can offer any such evidence if it is
speculative or without foundation). In addition, under Evid. Code sec. 352, the
Court does not find that the jury hearing about having postpartum depression would
necessarily be prejudicial to plaintiff.
P MIL No. 8 (reprimand of Milan by employer): Granted.
Liability not at issue. 
P MIL No. 9  (Dr.
Reisch opinion re: diffusion tensor imaging (“DTI”)): Plaintiffs argue that Dr.
Reisch should not be able to give an opinion about plaintiffs’ alleged
traumatic brain injury (“TBI”) based on use by Dr. Chaudry of DTI where Dr.
Reisch does not use DTI in his practice. Defendants argue that plaintiffs
misconstrue Dr. Reisch’s opinion and or Defendants’ position. Defendants
contend that DTI has not received general acceptance within the medical
community for use to determine TBI and that therefore any such testimony should
be excluded under People v. Kelly (1976) 17 Cal.3d 24. Defendants have
not filed a motion in limine on this issue. They instead suggest that, if
necessary, the Court hold an Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing to determine whether
the jury can be allowed to hear this evidence. It is unclear whether Dr. Reisch
has an opinion that would address the factors under Kelly, supra. If so,
plaintiffs have not identified a reason why the Court should not hear from him
as to why he does not use DTI. The Court needs to address Defendants’ objection
under Kelly before it can assess whether Dr. Reisch can give the opinion
sought to be excluded given the noted limitation. It is also unclear if though
Dr. Reisch does not use this method that his use of other methods might not still
give him sufficient expertise to opine on use of DTI by Dr. Chaudry. 
          Therefore,
at this time, the Court would deny the motion without more information. In
addition, the Court seeks the parties’ input at the hearing on whether it
should hold a 402 hearing in advance of trial - if such hearing would be complex
or lengthy (and or assist the parties in evaluating this case) – to avoid
interruption during trial. 
P MIL No. 10 (information on plaintiffs’ social media
accounts): Plaintiffs argue that Nguyen was befriended on her social media site
by  a person named Giovanni Torres who
represented that he was employed by (defendant) Robertson’s Transport. Plaintiffs
contend that this would have been improper for various reasons, including that
plaintiff was represented by counsel. Thay argue also that any evidence on
those sites concerning personal issues would be unduly prejudicial where it
would have no probative value and therefore should be excluded under Ev. Code
sec. 352. Defendants argue in opposition that the information Plaintiffs posted
rebuts her claims concerning the extent of injuries and is therefore highly
relevant. The probative value of this information would outweigh any undue
prejudice. In addition, Defendants dispute that obtaining this information was
a violation of Plaintiffs’ privacy where Plaintiffs themselves elected to
publicize this information. (See Moreno v. Hanford Sentinel
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1125) Defendants do not address the issues
raised concerning Torres. The Court will need to hear further about whether
Torres obtained information that he should not have. It is not clear whether
the information in question was otherwise available to be seen.  HEAR ARGUMENT 
 
Defendants’ Motions in Limine Nos. 1 through 10 
 
D MIL No. 1 (suggesting monetary amount for noneconomic
damages, including during voir dire, “anchoring”): Denied. (CCP sec. 222.5) 
D MIL No. 2 (suggesting monetary amount sought by plaintiffs,
including during voir dire, Mini-Opening): Denied. (CCP sec. 222.5)
D MIL No. 3 (“reptile theory” argument): Defendants seek to
prevent Plaintiffs contending that relief from them is necessary to avoid needlessly
endangering the public, that what matters is that Defendants have done all that
was necessary to protect them and that to do so would be a variant of reliance
on what is prohibited under the Golden Rule, i.e., appealing to jurors’
subjective self-interest. (CACI 100) Denied. Entering the requested order would
lack the necessary clarity or specificity in terms of what Plaintiffs’ counsel
would be precluded from arguing and as set forth in the opposition would also conflict
with competing related considerations that would be relevant to arguing to a
jury. Moreover, where liability is not at issue here, it should not be
necessary for plaintiffs to raise these issues such that an order is required. 
D MIL No. 4 (net worth, revenue or financial condition of
defendant companies): Granted. Liability is not at issue. Hence, this evidence
should not be relevant. 
D MIL No. 5 (photos of Nguyen’s injuries): Denied. Not
unduly prejudicial and important to prove extent of damage. (Evid. Code sec.
352) 
D MIL No. 6 (Nguyen’s testimony as to diagnosis, prognosis
and or cause of carpal tunnel injury): Defendants argue that though Nguyen is a
medical assistant, she does not have the required expertise to opine concerning
these issues. Lay opinion based on her perceptions and to understand her
testimony is permissible under Evid. Code sec. 800. Denied. 
D MIL No. 7 (photos of scene and vehicles): Denied. Helpful
to the jury to understand what occurred and thereby evaluate the extent of
claimed injuries. Not unduly prejudicial. (Evid. Code sec. 352)  
D MIL No. 8 (de-designation of experts & retaining
consulting experts): Granted. No showing made that this is done for improper
purposes. Any improper purposes could have been explored through the discovery
process.  
D MIL No. 9 (prior accident history, driving history, hiring
and termination of Milan): Where employer admits vicarious liability, these
matters are no longer relevant. (Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th
1148, 1152) Plaintiffs make no showing how such information is relevant to
damages. Granted. 
D MIL No. 10 (life care plan of Roberto Contreras, II, M.D.):
Defendants argue the life care plan is speculative and lacking in foundation
concerning the support for his calculations of amounts likely to be needed for
care of the three plaintiffs. Plaintiffs counter that Dr. Contreras is well
qualified and that a motion in limine can address only methodology, not
conclusions. Though it appears Dr. Contreras is a qualified physician, it is
not clear whether as a physician he has the required expertise to give what
amounts to an economic analysis as to the costs involved in receiving the care
he recommends. The reports attached to the motion do not lay a foundation for
how he reached the conclusions he draws as to the costs involved. In addition,
as Defendants point out, a significant portion of the estimated costs are not
per se medical costs. The Court does not know how he drew his estimates for
costs of future care attendants, for example, even assuming those are needed. The
Court has a “gatekeeper” function to make sure that these opinions have a sound
methodology, as well as sufficient foundation and that the expert has the qualifications
to estimate these very significant future financial costs. For these reasons, a
further Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing prior to trial may be necessary so the
Court can decide this motion. HEAR ARGUMENT 