  Case Number:  23TRCV00618    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April 8, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00618
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Laura Einsetler; Frank Einsetler v. Villa
Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association, et al.   
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Plaintiff,
Laura and Frank Einsetler’s Motion to Compel Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners
Association
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant, Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association
(No Opposition)
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        April 7, 2025
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted 
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED, subject to
counsel for moving parties’ confirmation that defense counsel Safarian is still
shown on the State Bar website to be an active member of the Bar
                                                (2) GRANTED Request
for Sanctions in the total amount of $2,560,
as explained below
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On March 2, 2023, Plaintiffs, Laura Einsetler and
Frank Einsetler (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association (“Defendant”), and
DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Governing Documents/Enforcement of Equitable Servitudes; (2) Negligence; (3)
Nuisance; (4) Trespass; (5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; and (6) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Per the moving papers, on September 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs, Laura and Frank Einsetler served Defendant, Villa Capri Townhomes
Association with Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for
Production of Documents and Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted.
Plaintiffs note that on October 30, 2023, Defendant’s responses were due, and no
extensions were requested nor received. 
 
As such, Plaintiffs sought a Motion to Compel initial
responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for
Production of Documents. Plaintiffs also sought an order to deem Requests for
Admission as Admitted. On March 5, 2024, this Court GRANTED Plaintiffs Motion
to Compel initial responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
and Requests for Production of Documents. However, as to the Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission as Admitted, this Court GRANTED the motion IN PART and
continued the hearing to April 8, 2024 pending timely receipt of the
Court-Ordered verified written admissions, denials, or statements of inability
to do either. This Court also continued the Request for Monetary Sanctions pending
the supplemental evidence bearing on the claimed $400 hourly rate. 
 
            Per Plaintiffs’ Supplemental
Declaration of William Idleman, despite this Court’s previous ruling on these
motions, Defendant failed to serve verified responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests
for Admission by March 26, 2024, and that as of the filing of his supplemental
declaration, Defendant has not served any responses whatsoever. Plaintiffs’
proof of service ot its notice or ruling shows it was emailed to the HOA’s
counsel of record, Mr. Safarian.
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
these Motions to Compel and Requests to Deem Request for Admission Admitted. As
of the evening before the hearing, still no opposition has been filed. 
 
On March 5, 2024, this Court GRANTED
Plaintiffs’ Motions to Compel Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents, set one. It
also GRANTED in part, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deem Requests for Admission
Admitted and continued the hearing pending timely receipt of the Court-ordered
verified written admissions, denial, or statements of inability to do either. Further,
this Court CONTINUED the Requests for Monetary Sanctions pending supplemental
evidence bearing on the claimed $400 hourly rate. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted
 
Legal Standard 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular
response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move
for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or
both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive
or incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or
too general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).)    
 
Discussion 
 
            In this Court’s
previous March 5, 2024 minute order, it noted that the Court GRANTED the Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted in part and required Defendant to
serve verified responses to the Requests for Admission by March 26, 2024, with
the more devastating consequence of deeming the Requests for Admission as
Admitted to be imposed if no verified admissions, denials, or statements of
inability to admit or deny are timely served by his date. 
 
            On April 2, 2024,
counsel for Plaintiffs filed a supplemental declaration of William Idleman in
support of Plaintiffs’ Motions to Compel and Requests for Sanctions noting that
Defendant failed to serve amu responses whatsoever, including the ordered
verified responses. (Declaration of William Idleman (“Idleman Decl.”), ¶ 9.) As
such, as previously warned by this Court, because Defendant has failed to
timely provide responses, and now also failed to comply with the Court’s previous
order, this Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as
Admitted. 
 
B.    Sanctions
In
this Court’s March 5, 2024 minute order, it noted that the Plaintiffs sought
sanctions against Defendants for the four (4) of these motions in the amount of
in the amount of $2,880 per motion to compel initial responses and $2,800 for
the Motion to Deem RFAs as Admitted.  Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.)
Plaintiffs’ sanction amount was based on Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration
noting that for the motion to compel initial responses, he spent 1.8 hours
preparing the motions at $400/hour, expects to spend 2.4 hours analyzing an
opposition and preparing a reply brief and another 3 hours preparing for and
attending the hearing on this motion. For the Motion to Deem Requests for
Admission as admitted, he notes he spend 1.6 hours preparing the motion at
$400/hour, expects another 2.4 hours analyzing an opposition and preparing a
reply brief and another 3 hours preparing and attending the motion.
However, this Court noted that
because no opposition or rely briefs were filed on either of the four motions,
and the three (3) hours allocated to each of the motions for time spent
preparing and attending the hearings would be duplicative and excessive. Thus,
this Court informed Plaintiffs that the sanctions awarded would be significantly
lower amounts than requested. Further, this Court noted that the declaration
supporting the sanctions stated in a conclusory way that $400/hour was
reasonable for an attorney of the same years of practice and experience, but
the declarations failed to say what counsel’s experience or unspecified years
of practice were. Thus, this Court previously continued this motion to allow
supplemental evidence to be submitted to support this Idleman’s hourly rate. 
Idleman notes in his supplemental
declaration that he obtained his law degree from Chapman University School of
Law, and that during his time in law school, he was a member of Moot Court and
interned at the Orane County Office of the County Counsel. (Idleman Decl., ¶
7.) Further, Idleman contends that prior to joining Lubin Pham + Caplin, LLP,
he represented large financial institutions on hundreds of cases involving
mortgage servicing issues, real estate, and business disputes (Idleman Decl., ¶
7.) He notes that he has fifteen (15) years of experience, and has successfully
obtained favorable trial verdicts and summary judgment in title disputes and
wrongful foreclosure cases. (Idleman Decl., ¶ 7.)
Here, this Court notes that based
on the Court’s previous analysis, as well as the supplemental declaration of
Idleman, this Court GRANTS sanctions as to the Motion to Compel Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of
Documents in the amount of $2,560, which reflects the 1.8 hours spent on each
of the three motions, plus one hour total to attend the hearing. As for the
sanctions with regard to the Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted,
this Court notes that such an order is devastating to Defendant’s potential
affirmative defenses to Plaintiffs’ claims. The granting of the Request to Deem
Requests for Admission as Admitted is tantamount to admitting it is completely
at fault in the current case. Monetary sanctions are thus denied as to the RFA
motion at this time, without prejudice to being re-asserted if and when
Defendant seeks relief from this order. The monetary sanctions of $2,560 are
required to be paid by Defendant or counsel for Defendant, jointly and severally,
on or before April 29, 2024. 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ Motions to Deem Admitted
Requests for Admission as Admitted is GRANTED. Further, this Court GRANTS The
Court DENIES sanctions as to the requested monetary sanctions requests
concurrently with the Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted. Responses,
including those previously ordered by this Court, as well as sanctions are due
to Plaintiffs on or before April 29, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice. 