  Case Number:  19STCV12070    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19STCV12070




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Muranaka Farm, Harry Toshiaki Muranaka, Roy Muranaka, Janie Muranaka, and
  Carolyn Muranaka




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Miguel Magdaleno



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Miguel
Magdaleno (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Muranaka Farm, Harry Toshiaki Muranaka
(“Harry”), Roy Muranaka (“Roy”), Janie Muranaka, and Carolyn Muranaka (collectively,
except for Janie Muranaka, “Defendants”)[1] for
breach of contract.  In the operative first
amended complaint, Plaintiff alleges he loaned Muranaka Farm $500,000 with no
interest to assist with Muranaka Farm’s business, which was heavily in debt (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 11);  Muranaka Farm
then hired Plaintiff to work as its general manager and agreed to pay Plaintiff
50% of Muranaka Farm’s profits (Ibid.); and Defendants refused to pay
Plaintiff the profits as promised and instead terminated Plaintiff’s employment
(id., ¶ 15).  Defendants move for
summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative complaint or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication of issues.  After Defendants
filed this motion, Plaintiff agreed to dismiss the second and eighth causes of
action, rendering this motion moot as to them. 

As Plaintiff
points out, Defendants have not separately stated “each supporting material
fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to” each issue.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (d).)
 Instead, Defendants’ separate statement
of undisputed material facts contains supporting material facts that are
compound.  For example, Defendants’
undisputed material facts Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 20,
21, 25, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 37, 38, 39, 40, and 41 consist of more than one
fact.  Plaintiff properly objects to
Defendants’ motion on this basis.  “There
is little flexibility in the procedural imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c], and the issues raised by a motion for summary judgment (or
summary adjudication) are pure questions of law.  As a result, section 437c is unforgiving; a
failure to comply with any one of its myriad requirements is likely to be fatal
to the offending party.”  (Brantley v.
Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.)  
The Court,
therefore, will continue the matter to an appropriate date based on the court’s
calendar.  Defendants are to file a new
separate statement in compliance with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1350.  Defendants must ensure “[c]itation
to the evidence in support of each material fact . . . include[s] reference to
the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (d).)   The
Court does not authorize Defendants to file additional evidence or a different
memorandum of points and authorities in support of their motion.  Plaintiff may file an opposition and
Defendants may file a reply pursuant to the deadlines set in Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c.  The Court
provides the following analysis to assist the parties.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for breach of oral contract.  Plaintiff alleges, in 2014, Plaintiff entered
into an agreement with Muranaka Farm, Harry, and Roy, whereby Muranaka Farm
would hire Plaintiff as its general manager, and Muranaka Farm would pay
Plaintiff 50% of its profits.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 11, 16.)  Plaintiff
further alleges Muranaka Farm, Harry, and Roy breached this agreement by
failing to pay Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶
17.)  Defendants contend the statute of
frauds bars this claim; therefore, Plaintiff cannot prevail on it.   
The statute of
frauds provides a contract that falls under it is invalid unless memorialized
in writing and signed by the party against whom the contract is to be enforced.
(Civ. Code, § 1624.)  An agreement that
cannot, by its terms, be performed within one year is subject to the statute of
frauds. (Civ. Code, § 1624, subd. (a)(1).)  In response to Defendants’ discovery requests,
Plaintiff stated the parties orally agreed Plaintiff’s employment with Muranaka
Farm would last at least ten years.  (Declaration
of Artyom Baghdishyan, Exhibit D, p. 52.) 
The parties’ agreement is, therefore, unenforceable unless memorialized
in writing and signed by Defendants.  (Civ.
Code, § 1624, subd. (a); but see Code Civ. Proc., § 1972, subd. (a) [a court is
empowered “to compel the specific performance of an agreement, in case of part
performance thereof”].)  Defendants
concede Plaintiff began to work for Muranaka Farm after the purported oral
agreement between the parties. 
(Declaration of Charles Muranaka, ¶ 8.) 
The parties, therefore, partially performed on the agreement.  As such, Defendants fail to meet their burden
to show the statute of frauds bars Plaintiff’s claim for breach of an oral
contract.  
Defendants also
argue Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for breach of contract because the
parties did not orally agree Plaintiff would receive 50% of Muranaka Farm’s
profits.  Defendants submit the Declaration
of Chiaki Harami (“Harami”), who is the chief financial officer for Muranaka
Farm.  Harami declares Plaintiff asked Muranaka
Farm for a regular salary and benefits, to which Muranaka Farm agreed, and it paid
same to Plaintiff.  (Declaration of
Chiaki Harami, ¶ 12.)  This evidence satisfies
Defendants’ burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on the first cause of
action for breach of an oral agreement because the parties did not reach an
oral agreement on the terms Plaintiff alleges. 
Defendants, therefore, have shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise
triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on the
first cause of action.
Third Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
Plaintiff’s third
cause of action is for quantum meruit.  In
a claim for quantum meruit, “a plaintiff may recover the reasonable value of
services rendered provided that those particular services were not legally
prohibited.” (MKB Management, Inc. v. Melikian (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
796, 805.)  In support of the third cause
of action, Plaintiff alleges Muranaka Farm failed to pay Plaintiff for services
he rendered as general manager.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 24-27.)  As related
above, Defendants present evidence Plaintiff asked Muranaka Farm for a regular
salary and benefits.  Such evidence meets
Defendants’ burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for quantum
meruit because Defendants have paid the sums due to Plaintiff.  Defendants have shifted the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can
prevail on the quantum meruit claim.
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action:
Failure to Pay All Wages Due
Plaintiff’s fourth
and fifth causes of action are for failure to pay all wages due.  In that regard Plaintiff alleges Muranaka Farm
failed to pay Plaintiff all wages and other compensation due when Plaintiff
left his employment with Muranaka Farm. 
(First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 32, 38.) 
Again, Defendants advance evidence that Plaintiff asked Muranaka Farm
for a regular salary and benefits, which Muranaka Farm agreed to and paid
Plaintiff.  (Declaration of Chiaki
Harami, ¶ 12.)  This evidence meets Defendants’
burden to show that Plaintiff cannot prevail on his fourth and fifth causes of
action for failure to pay all wages due, because Defendants have paid the sums
due to Plaintiff.  Defendants shift the
burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on the causes of action for failure to pay all wages due.
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action:
False Promise
Plaintiff’s sixth
and seventh causes of action are for false promise.  In support of his claims for false promise,
Plaintiff alleges Muranaka Farm, through Harry, promised to pay Plaintiff 50%
of its profits, and Plaintiff relied on that promise when he accepted employment
with Muranaka Farm.  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶¶ 42-45, 50-52.)  To prevail
on his claim for promissory fraud, Plaintiff must advance evidence of specific
factual circumstances beyond contract breach, which reflect Defendants’
contemporaneous intent not to perform.  (Hills
Transportation Co. v. Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d
702, 707.)  As set forth above,
Defendants advance evidence Plaintiff asked Muranaka Farm for a regular salary
and benefits, and Muranaka Farm agreed to Plaintiff’s request.  (Declaration of Chiaki Harami, ¶ 12.)  Defendants, therefore, have satisfied their
burden of demonstrating Plaintiff cannot prevail on the sixth and seventh
causes of action for false promise because Defendants did not promise Plaintiff
employment on the terms Plaintiff alleges. 
Then, Defendants have shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable
issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on the sixth and
seventh causes of action. 
Alter Ego Liability
            Defendants
purport to move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether Defendants
Harry Toshiaki Muranaka, Roy Muranaka, Janie Muranaka, and Carolyn Muranaka are
liable as the alter egos of Muranaka Farm. This is not a proper issue for
summary adjudication.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 


