 Case Number:  23STCV02273    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02273




MOTION


Motion for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jane Doe




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.



 
MOTION
              Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves for a protective order to preclude Defendant Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”) from taking a further full-day session of
Plaintiff’s deposition, or, in the alternative, to limit the questioning at the
session to topics Defendant has not yet covered.  Defendant opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420
provides, “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any . . . deponent . . . from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420.)  
In its order of May 28, 2024, the court
ordered Plaintiff to appear for a further deposition session on June 13, 2024,
which would not be subject to a four-hour limit.  (See May 28, 2024 Minute Order.)  The motion for protective order is, therefore,
moot to the extent it seeks to preclude Defendant from conducting what Defendant
has committee to being a deposition session of no more than seven hours.
Plaintiff argues, “Defendant should be
required to identify in writing the new topics it intends to question Plaintiff
about, identify the relevance of such topics, and the Court should order that
the Defendant’s questioning be confined to those topics.”  (Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Support of Motion for Protective Order, p. 7.) 
Plaintiff cites no authority for such an order.  If Plaintiff seeks to limit Defendant’s
examination to specified topics, Plaintiff has the burden of establishing good
cause that certain matters are not to be inquired into and the scope of the
examination is to be limited to those matters. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subds. (b)(9)-(10).)  Moreover, at a minimum, Plaintiff must specify
the topics not to be covered and establish the burden and intrusiveness of
examination concerning them would outweigh the utility of the discovery.
(Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior
Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1101, 1110.) 
Plaintiff has not satisfied her burden. 

In her memorandum of points and authorities,
Plaintiff requests a discovery referee, and asks that the next session of her
deposition take place at the courthouse. 
Plaintiff does not seek this relief in her notice of motion.  The moving party must state in the first
paragraph of the notice of motion exactly what relief the party seeks, and on
what grounds.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010;
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subd. (a).) 
Moreover, Plaintiff has not adequately established the circumstances of
this case warrant the involvement of a referee. 
Accordingly, this request is denied.
Defendant is to give notice of this
order and file proof of service of same.
 