 Case Number:  23LBCV00907    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiffs, Shanta Thompson and
Brandon Nickerson filed this action against Defendants, Westland AF 2022 LLC,
et al. for habitability related claims arising out of the parties’
landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
On 8/08/24, Plaintiffs filed a
Notice of Settlement of the entire action. 
On 10/29/24, Petitioner filed petitions to approve minor’s compromises
on behalf of Taylani Nickerson and Brayshawn Nickerson.  The petitions indicate there has been a
settlement between Plaintiffs and Defendants, and the settlement also
encompasses claims by non-parties, Corylon Jordan, Taylani Nickerson, and
Brayshawn Nickerson.  
 
The proposed settlement is in the
total amount of $190,000.  The proposed
apportionment is $58,666.66 for each of the three adults and $7000 for each of
the two minors.  Petitioner explains that
the adults will receive more in settlement because they incurred rent payments
and relocation expenses, while the minors suffered from trouble sleeping,
frustration, anxiety, and stress, all of which have fully resolved.  
 
The Court is inclined to find the
settlement fair and reasonable, and the apportionment fair and reasonable in
light of the expenses incurred by the adults and not the children.  The Court wishes to hear from Petitioner, at
the time of the hearing, concerning the nature of the relationship with Corylon
Jordan, who is not a named plaintiff in the action but who will receive 1/3 of
the adults’ settlement proceeds.  
 
If the settlement is approved, each
of the two minors will pay $1750 in attorneys’ fees.  No costs will be deducted from their
settlements.  The net balance of $5250
will be placed in blocked accounts.
 
Pursuant to CRC 7.952, the minor
plaintiffs and the GAL must appear at the hearing unless the Court excuses
their appearance.  The minors are five
and eight years old, and the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance
based on their ages.  Petitioner must
appear at the hearing.  If the Court is
satisfied with Petitioner’s testimony at the hearing, the Court will grant the
petitions and will process the orders approving the claims and the orders to
place funds in blocked accounts.  