 Case Number:  23LBCV01456    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, William Doyle filed this action against Defendant, Miguel
Flores Hernandez on 8/02/23 for common counts and breach of written
contract.  The case arises out of
Defendant’s alleged breach of a contract pursuant to which he rented a piece of
construction equipment called a Bobcat.  
 
Plaintiff filed the lawsuit on 8/02/23. 
Plaintiff filed proof of service of the summons, complaint, and related
papers on 9/27/23.  The POS indicates
registered process server, M. Lamorie, served the papers on Defendant by
substitute service on Luz Hernandez – mother on 8/11/23.  
 
On 9/29/23, at Plaintiff’s request, the Clerk entered Defendant’s
default.  On 10/11/23, at Plaintiff's
request, the Court entered default judgment against Defendant.  
2.    
Motion
re: Incorrectly Served
On 6/25/24, Defendant filed a motion entitled “Motion re: Incorrectly
Served.”  The crux of the motion is that
Defendant received papers, on an unspecified date, on a bench outside his home,
and on 8/15/23, he and his family members went to the courthouse to
investigate.  His daughter Ivette
explains that her paternal grandfather has been deceased for two years and her
maternal grandmother lives out of state, so it is not clear who the “mother”
who was purportedly served actually is.  
 
The motion is denied for two reasons. 
First, there is no proof of service of the moving papers on
Plaintiff.  On 7/29/24, Defendant filed a
proof of service document, but it is not clear from a review of the document
what papers were served on Plaintiff; the space on the form to indicate what
documents were served is not completed.  
 
Second, when a defendant is in default, the only recourse the defendant
has is to be relieved from the default entered against him.  The defendant cannot seek any other relief,
including moving to quash service of the summons and complaint, which appears
to be what Defendant herein is attempting to do.  Entry of a defendant's default
instantaneously cuts off his right to appear in the action.  The defaulted defendant is “out of court.”  He has no right to participate in the
proceedings until either (a) his default is set aside (in which event, he may
respond to the complaint), or (b) a default judgment is entered (in which
event, he may appeal).  See Devlin v.
Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   