  Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Relevant
Procedural History
On 2/08/24, the Court granted
summary judgment in favor of Defendants, Escrow L.A. and Sharon L. Sharp.   Thereafter,
Defendants filed a motion for attorneys’ fees, which the Court granted on
6/11/24.  
 
2.     Motion
for Release of Funds or, in the Alternative, for Imposition of a Lien on
Deposited Funds
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendants contend they have
incurred $15,799.66 in additional attorneys’ fees since the Court entered
judgment.  Defendants concede the summary
judgment ruling in on appeal, but contend any award of fees is not stayed
pending resolution of the appeal. 
Defendants seek an order adding their additional attorneys’ fees to the
judgment, and also adding interest to the judgment.  Defendants seek an order releasing the total
amount of the judgment from escrow forthwith. 
Alternatively, they seek placement of a lien on the funds on deposit in
escrow so the right to secure the judgment can be enforced.  If the Court is not inclined to enforce the
judgment, they seek an order that SEJ submit an undertaking to permit recovery
in the event Defendants are successful on appeal.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, contends
the funds should remain on deposit in escrow pending the outcome of the appeal
in order to maintain the status quo.  Plaintiff
contends the requested attorneys’ fees are “routine,” such that they are stayed
on appeal.  Plaintiff indicates it does
not oppose placement of a lien on the funds that would satisfy the judgment.  Plaintiff contends Defendants have not shown
entitlement to any amount over and above the judgment originally entered on
6/11/24, and any enforcement should be limited to that amount.
 
b.     Issues
Presented
The following issues are presented
by way of the motion:
·        
Have Defendants established a basis for adding
post-judgment attorneys’ fees to the judgment?
·        
Have Defendants established a basis for adding
post-judgment costs to the judgment?
·        
Have Defendants established a basis for adding
post-judgment interest to the judgment?
·        
Should the Court issue an order that the funds
be released from escrow immediately?
·        
If the Court does not do so, should it place a
lien on the funds and/or order Plaintiff to post a bond to secure the judgment?
 
c.    
Post-Judgment Attorneys’ Fees
Pursuant to Globalist Internet
Technologies, Inc. v. Reda (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1274, a
party who prevails on the underlying action, has an attorneys’ fees contract,
and incurs post-judgment attorneys’ fees is entitled to recover those fees by
way of noticed motion.  Defendants have
filed such a motion, and the motion is accompanied by the Declaration of
Counsel, Jonathan L. Endman, who provides a copy of Defendants’ billing
statements for review.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, indicates it opposes addition of any fees over and above the judgment
already issued, but does not meaningfully state WHY it opposes addition of such
fees.  To the extent the motion seeks an
order adding attorneys’ fees incurred to the judgment, the motion is granted.
 
d.     Costs
CCP §685.070 permits a judgment
creditor to claim certain costs for enforcing a judgment.  §685.070(b) makes clear that the procedure
for claiming such costs is by way of an updated memorandum of costs.  To the extent Defendants are seeking to add
additional costs to the judgment by way of this motion, they have used the
incorrect procedural method for claiming costs, and the request is denied.  
 
e.     Interest
Defendants seek an order adding
accrued interest to the judgment. 
Defendants have cited no authority for the position that interest should
be physically added to a judgment.  Interest
clearly accrues on the judgment, and the parties must calculate the amount of
interest in order to determine whether a judgment has been fully satisfied or
not.  The Court is not, however, familiar
with any process whereby the judgment itself is routinely updated to add
interest.  Absent authority in this
regard, the request to add accrued interest to the judgment itself is denied.
 
f.      Release
of Funds
The parties discuss the holding of
Bank of San Pedro v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 797 in
connection with the question of whether the Court should issue an order
requiring escrow to release funds sufficient to satisfy the judgment.  In Bank of San Pedro, the Supreme Court
considered a situation where a defendant obtained a defense verdict and a
judgment consisting of expert costs.  It
held an award of expert costs is not an award of “routine costs,” and therefore
the party against whom the judgment is issued must post bond if the party
wishes to avoid immediate execution of the judgment while it is on appeal.  
 
In this case, the funds at issue
are in an escrow account.  Defendants
seek an alternative order that there be a lien on the amount of their judgment
pending the outcome of the appeal. 
Plaintiff does not contest that request in opposition to the motion, and
instead affirmatively agrees that such a lien is proper.  The Court finds a lien on the escrow account
is substantially similar to an appellate bond, and therefore grants the
alternative relief requested; a lien will be placed on the escrow account pending
the outcome of the appeal, and the account shall not be distributed in a manner
that precludes enforcement of the lien pending the outcome of the appeal.  
 
g.    
Conclusion  
To the extent Defendants seek an
updated award of attorneys’ fees, their motion is granted.  To the extent they seek an updated award of
costs and/or interest, the motion is denied. 
The parties must meet and confer to agree on an updated proposed
judgment in light of the above ruling. 
The ruling is without prejudice to Defendants’ right to file a
post-judgment memorandum of costs and/or to collect legal interest on the
judgment.  
 
A lien is placed on the escrow
account.  The escrow account shall not be
distributed, pending the outcome of the appeal, in a manner that interferes
with Defendants’ ability to collect on the full amount of their judgment.  
 
3.     OSC
re: Dismissal (Settlement)
The parties are reminded there is
an OSC re: Dismissal (Settlement) on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the above motion.  The Court asks the
parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the OSC and hearing on the
motion.  