 Case Number:  23PSCV01059    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Guruaan LA Real Estate Inc.’s Motion to  Vacate Default Respondent:  NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Guruaan LA Real Estate Inc.’s Motion to  Vacate Default is GRANTED BACKGROUND This  is a disability rights action. Plaintiff Luis Marquez is a paraplegic who uses  a wheelchair for mobility. Defendant Guruaan LA, Inc. (Guruaan LA) owns an Arco gas station in  Irwindale that is located on property owed by Defendant Guruaan LA Real Estate Inc.  (Guruaan LA Real Estate). On July 27, 2022, Marquez visited the Arco gas  station to avail himself of its goods, services, privileges, or advantages.  During the visit, Marquez alleges the following barriers to access existed: (1)  an inaccessible bathroom soap dispenser and (2) unwrapped sink plumbing. On  April 11, 2023, Marquez filed a complaint against Guruaan LA, Guruaan LA Real Estate,  and Does 1-50, alleging (1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act (UCRA) and  (2) violation of the California Disabled Persons Act (DPA). On May 2, Marquez’s  process server served Guruaan LA Real Estate in Irwindale with substitute service. On  July 5, 2023, default was entered against Guruaan LA and Guruaan LA Real  Estate. On August 24, Marquez submitted an application for default judgment  that the court denied on August 31. The court also vacated the entry of default  against Guruaan LA. On October  4, 2023, Guruaan LA and Guruaan LA Real Estate filed an answer. On November 1,  Guruaan LA and Guruaan LA Real Estate filed a verified first amended answer. On December  15, 2023, Guruaan LA Real Estate filed the present motion. A hearing on the  motion is set for January 17, 2024, with a case management conference on March  11. ANALYSIS Guruaan  LA Real Estate seeks to set aside the entry of default on the grounds of mistake,  inadvertence, or surprise. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motion. Legal Standard Whenever  an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than six months  after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the moving  party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1) resulting default  entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2) resulting default judgment  or dismissal entered against the moving party, unless the court finds that the  default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd.  (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional  and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after that period has  elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36,  42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry of default, not  entry of judgment.” (Id.) Courts  liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly  sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors  resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56  Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating  a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)  However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a  party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or  negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have  guarded.” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms  v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.) Discussion In  this case, default was entered against Guruaan LA Real Estate on July 5, 2023. Because  their present motion was filed on December 15, the court finds their motion is  timely. On  May 2, 2023, Marquez’s process server served Guruaan LA Real Estate by serving  an individual named Destiny Lewis at Guruaan LA Real Estate’s property in  Irwindale. In a declaration, Guruaan LA Real Estate’s owner, Gurvinder Aujla,  states Lewis is an employee at the AM/PM minimart on the property and has never  served as a manger or agent of Aujla’s companies. (Aujla Decl., ¶ 4.) Aujla  states that the papers served on Lewis were never provided to Aujla and that  Aujla also did not receive the copies that were allegedly mailed. (Aujla Decl.,  ¶ 4.) Last, Aujla states Aujla first became aware of the present action in  September 2023 when Aujla received a notice of entry of default in the mail. (Aujla  Decl., ¶ 6.) Upon  review of Aujla’s declaration and in light of the well-established judicial  policy of resolving cases on their merits, the court will exercise its  discretion to grant Guruaan LA Real Estate relief from the entry of the  default. The court also notes Marquez has failed to file a timely opposition.  Accordingly, Guruaan LA Real Estate’s motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Guruaan  LA Real Estate’s motion to vacate default is GRANTED. The proposed answer submitted  with their motion is deemed filed as of this date.