  Case Number:  22PSCV03018    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Merchants Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion
to Strike
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Merchants Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion
to Strike is GRANTED with thirty (30) days leave to
amend.
 
BACKGROUND

This is a personal injury action arising from
a motor vehicle collision. In January 2021, Plaintiff Anna Perez was walking along
Azusa Avenue in La Puente when Perez was struck by a van. Perez alleges the van
was owned by Defendant Merchants Automotive Group, Inc. (MAG) and was being
operated by Defendant Dorothy Doe, who allegedly refused to give a full name
and fled the scene of the accident.
 
On December 21, 2022, Perez filed a complaint
against MAG, Doe, and Does 1-50, alleging (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2)
general negligence.
 
On November 21, 2023, MAG filed the present motion.
Prior to filing on October 24, MAG’s counsel telephonically met and conferred
with Perez’s counsel and initially came to an agreement on a stipulation.
(Stoker Decl., ¶ 4.) But subsequently, MAG’s counsel states Perez’s counsel
failed to follow through and sign the stipulation. (Stoker Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
A hearing on the motion to strike is set for January
17, 2024, along with a case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File
Proof of Service.
 
ANALYSIS

MAG moves to strike punitive damages from
Perez’s Complaint. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS MAG’s motion.
 
Legal Standard

Motion to Strike
 
Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own
motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation
includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
 
Punitive Damages
 
Civil Code section 3294 allows punitive damages when a
plaintiff establishes by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) For the
purposes of determining punitive damages, malice is defined as “conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Lastly, fraud is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
“In addition to the requirement that the operative
complaint set forth the elements as stated in section 3294, it must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Furthermore, “[p]unitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Ibid.)
 
Discussion

In this case, MAG argues there are no
allegations in the Complaint that allege MAG is guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. While the Complaint alleges Doe engaged in despicable and unreasonable
conduct by fleeing the scene of the collision with Perez, the Complaint merely
alleges MAG owned the van and employed Doe.
 
An employer may be held liable for punitive
damages based on an employee’s conduct when “the employer had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) But here, the
Complaint failed to allege how MAG had advance knowledge of Doe’s unfitness or
how MAG ratified or authorized Doe’s conduct in the alleged hit-and-run. Thus,
the Complaint lacks sufficient allegations to support a claim of punitive
damages against MAG.
 
Accordingly, MAG’s motion is GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, MAG’s
motion to strike punitive damages from Perez’s Complaint is GRANTED with
thirty (30) days leave to amend.
