 Case Number:  22STCV15888    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 12, 2022, Plaintiff Jorge Luis Mata Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants H&D Gateway LLC (“H&D”), Tomomi Sushi (“Tomomi
Sushi”), Roberto Cortez (“Cortez”), and Does 1-30 for negligence (Lab. Code, §
3706 et seq.) and ratification of assault (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd. (b)(1)).  On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to include Defendant W.Y. International, Inc.
as Doe 11.  On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint
to include Defendant Golden Lyon Investment Co. as Doe 12. 
On
October 4, 2022, the Court sustained H&D’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for ratification of assault with 30 days leave to amend. 
On
December 2, 2022, H&D filed an answer. On
December 19, 2022, H&D filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Cortez, Pedro Rivera Garcia (“Rivera Garcia”), and Roes 1-20 for equitable
indemnity, apportionment of liability, and contribution. 
On
January 17, 2023, Tomomi Sushi filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.  On March 29, 2024, the Court dismissed Tomomi
Sushi without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
March 16, 2023, the clerk entered the defaults of Cross-Defendants Cortez and
Rivera Garcia on the cross-complaint. 
On
October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint.  On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
first amended complaint to include Defendants W.Y. International, Inc. as Doe
11 and Golden Lyon Investment Co. as Doe 12. 
On January
11, 2024, the Court sustained H&D’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for ratification of assault with leave to amend.  The Court explained: 
“ . . . Plaintiff has not pleaded any positive
misconduct by H&D having to do with Rivera’s alleged shooting of Plaintiff
or Cortez’s alleged harboring of Rivera. [Citation.]  [¶]  Instead,
Plaintiff argues that Cortez’s alleged harboring of Rivera can be imputed to
H&D because Cortez was a ‘supervisor’
for H&D. According to Plaintiff, when Cortez harbored Rivera, H&D
harbored Rivera as a matter of law. [Citation.] The Court however concludes
that an employer does not engage in ‘positive misconduct’ that would subject it
to liability under Labor Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), based on
conduct by a ‘supervisor,’ when the complaint does not allege facts showing
that the supervisor acted for the employer in the matter at issue, namely, the
harboring of Rivera.” 
On
January 17, 2024, Defendant Golden Lyon Investment Co. dba W.Y. International,
Inc. (“Golden Lyon”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Does 1-50 for equitable indemnity,
contribution, declaratory relief, and express indemnity. 
On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Defendants
H&D, Tomomi Sushi, Roberto Cortes Leon (also known as and erroneously sued
as Roberto Cortez) (“Cortes Leon”), W.Y. International, Inc., Golden Lyon, Does
1-10, and Does 13-30 for negligence under Labor Code section 3706 et seq. and
ratification of assault under Labor Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1). 
On
March 14, 2024, Defendant W.Y.
International, Inc. (“W.Y.”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s second amended
complaint. 
On
March 25, 2024, H&D filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s second amended
complaint, to be heard on April 24, 2024. 
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer.  On April 18, 2024, H&D filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to May 17,
2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 21, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
H&D
asks the Court to sustain its demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action
for ratification of assault under Labor
Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer or grant leave to amend. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted.) 
B.   Labor Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1) 
Labor
Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), provides: 
“(b) An employee, or his or her dependents in the
event of his or her death, may bring an action at law for damages against the
employer, as if this division did not apply, in the following instances: 
“(1) Where the employee’s injury or death is
proximately caused by a willful physical assault by the employer.” 
(Lab. Code, § 3602, subd.
(b)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The second amended complaint 
The second
amended complaint alleges the following facts common to all causes of action: 
Juan
Carlos Madrid Barrios (“Barrios”) was an agent, owner or employee of H&D, Golden
Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other Defendants who routinely hired Cortes Leon and his
workers to perform construction-related services for the various properties
owned or operated by Defendants.  Cortes
Leon performed duties as Defendants’ statutory employee, which included
screening, hiring, training, supervising, disciplining, and dispatching his
workers according to Defendants’ needs. 
Cortes
Leon was the owner, foreman, supervisor, and employee of H&D, W.Y. and
Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and/or a statutory supervisor for H&D, W.Y. and
Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., under Labor Code section 2750.5, and/or a statutory
agent of H&D, W.Y. and Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and/or a person responsible
for employees performing work for Defendants’ properties, including any work at
the premises.  Cortes Leon was an unlicensed contractor doing
business that requires a contractor’s license.  H&D, W.Y., Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., Tomomi
Sushi, and/or Does 1-30 hired Cortes Leon despite their knowledge that he did
not possess a license to perform work as a contractor and did not maintain
workers’ compensation insurance coverage for employees. 
H&D,
W.Y., Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., Tomomi Sushi, and/or Does 1-30 hired Cortes Leon
(who became the statutory agent and/or employee of Defendants under Labor Code
section 2750.5) and his workers to do construction work, including roofing
work, worth over $500.00 at the premises. 
On
April 7, 2022, at Cortes Leon’s direction, Plaintiff and his co-worker Rivera
Garcia reported to work at 17 W. Main Street, in the City of Alhambra, County
of Los Angeles ("premises").    Cortes Leon had informed Plaintiff that he needed to
assist Rivera Garcia, Cortes Leon’s worker, with a roofing project at the premises.
H&D and/or W.Y. and/or Golden Lyon d/b/a
W.Y. own and/or co-own the premises. 
Rivera
Garcia was carrying a firearm.  At around 11:30 a.m., while Plaintiff and Rivera
Garcia were taking a brief water break on the roof of the premises, Rivera
Garcia recklessly discharged the gun, firing a single shot into Plaintiff’s arm
and abdomen.  Afterward, as Plaintiff
attempted to escape, he lost his grip and/or strength while climbing down a
ladder.  As a result, Plaintiff fell more
than 14 feet to the pavement, losing consciousness and suffering additional
injuries. 
H&D,
Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other Defendants knew that Rivera Garcia possessed
a firearm that he took to work, knew that Rivera Garcia had been arrested
and/or had a criminal record for assault, were present when Rivera Garcia had
exhibited dangerous and/or erratic behavior that could pose a danger to others,
and/or knew he used drugs while on the job. Alternatively, Defendants H&D, Golden
Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other Defendants failed to properly screen Rivera Garcia
and should have known that Rivera Garcia possessed a firearm that he took to
work, and should have known that Rivera Garcia had been arrested and/or had a
criminal record for assault. Defendants should also have known that Rivera
Garcia had exhibited dangerous and/or erratic behavior that could pose a danger
to others, and/or should have known that he used drugs while on the job. 
Despite
this knowledge, including complaints about Rivera Garcia from other employees,
and having the opportunity and/or authority to supervise, discipline, and/or
fire Rivera Garcia, H&D, Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other Defendants
ratified Rivera Garcia’s conduct by continuing to employ him and eventually
harboring, concealing, and aiding Rivera Garcia’s efforts to hide and avoid
arrest, prosecution, and/or trial on April 7, 2022. 
On information and belief, H&D, Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other
Defendants ratified Rivera Garcia’s conduct, including the discharge of the
firearm. Specifically, the felony complaint filed in the criminal case on or
around April 25, 2022, charges that on April 7, 2022, “Roberto Cortes Leon . .
. did harbor, conceal, and aid said Pedro Rivera Garcia, with the intent that
he/she might avoid and escape from arrest, trial, conviction, and punishment
for said felony.” 
On
information and belief, during business hours, and shortly after the discharge
of the firearm on April 7, 2022, Cortes Leon received either a phone call
and/or an in-person visit from investigators with the Alhambra Police
Department. When the Alhambra Police Department questioned Cortes Leon about
Rivera Garcia’s whereabouts, Cortes Leon either did not tell the Alhambra
Police Department where they could find Rivera Garcia and/or misled
investigators about Rivera Garcia’s whereabouts, thereby harboring, concealing,
and aiding Rivera Garcia with the intent that he might avoid arrest, trial,
conviction, and punishment for his offense. 
By
withholding information and/or misleading police about Rivera Garcia’s
whereabouts, Cortes Leon ratified and/or condoned Rivera Garcia’s conduct in
carrying and discharging a firearm on the premises. 
H&D,
Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other Defendants failed to properly supervise their
statutory employees and failed to properly hire, monitor, and/or train their
employees to perform work on the roof of the premises.  H&D, Golden Lyon d/b/a W.Y., and other Defendants
failed to maintain and implement an effective injury and illness prevention
program in violation of Cal- OSHA statutes, knew or had reason to know that their
statutory employee Rivera Garcia was known to carry firearm and/or had a
propensity to carry a firearm and/or pose a danger to others, failed to
implement adequate hiring practices, including conducting background checks,
had a duty to ensure Plaintiff’s safety and ensure safe work practices were
followed, including, but, not limited to, taking firearms to work and/or
generally leaving workers unsupervised. 
In Plaintiff’s
claim for “Ratification of Assault Pursuant to California Labor Code §
3602(b)(1),” Plaintiff alleges that he was shot and injured because of
Defendants’ ratification of the behavior and battery by Rivera Garcia.  
B.   H&D’s demurrer 
H&D
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts supporting Plaintiff’s ratification
claim because the second amended complaint does not allege facts showing that
Cortes Leon was acting for H&D when he harbored Rivera Garcia. H&D observes: “Plaintiff does not allege that Cortes
spoke to police, and/or provided evasive responses to police questions on April
7, 2022 at the direction or under the authority of anyone at H&D.  Plaintiff does not allege that H&D in any
manner benefited from Cortes’s purported misrepresentations and/or omissions to
police officers, or that Cortes allegedly misled police for the purpose of
benefitting H&D in some respect.”  As
a result, H&D asserts, Plaintiff has not cured the defect the Court
identified when it sustained the demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint. 
In
response, Plaintiff relies on the Court of Appeal’s decision in Herrick v.
Quality Hotels, Inns & Resorts, Inc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1608 (Herrick),
asserting it establishes that allegations
of positive misconduct by a statutory supervisor state a cognizable claim for
ratification of assault by the statutory employer of that supervisor. 
In Herrick,
the plaintiff brought suit against his employer, a hotel, alleging his
supervisor (Wilson) pulled a gun on the plaintiff and threatened to blow the
plaintiff’s head off.  (Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p. 1614.)  The jury found (1) the plaintiff had shown by
a preponderance of the evidence that the supervisor had threatened the
plaintiff with a pistol, (2) the supervisor was acting within the course and
scope of his employment with the hotel, and (3) the supervisor acted with the
specific intent to cause injury to the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff suffered
severe emotional distress as a result of the supervisor’s actions, (5) a hotel
manager (Anani) was informed that the supervisor acted as described and
ratified the act, and (6) the plaintiff showed by clear and convincing evidence
that the hotel’s conduct was malicious, oppressive or fraudulent, justifying imposition
of punitive damages.  (Id. at p.
1615.)  The jury awarded compensatory and
punitive damages. (Id. at pp. 1615-1616.) 
The
hotel appealed, arguing (among other things) Labor Code section 3602,
subdivision (b)(2), did not apply to create an exception to the exclusivity of the
worker’s compensation remedy.  (Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p. 1616.) 
The
Court of Appeal affirmed, reasoning the jury “specifically found in its
special verdict form inter alia that [the supervisor] had threatened [the
plaintiff] with a pistol on the subject date, that [the supervisor] was acting
within the course and scope of his employment with [the hotel], that in doing
the act described [the supervisor] acted with the specific intent to cause injury
to [the plaintiff] and that [the plaintiff] suffered severe emotional distress
as a result as a result of the act of [the supervisor].”  (Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1617.)  “The jury’s findings
established as a matter of law the applicability of the exception to the
workers’ compensation act.”  (Ibid.) 
In
addition, the Court of Appeal observed that “there was evidence that Anani,
[the supervisor’s] supervisor and the manager of [the hotel], ratified [the
supervisor’s] conduct.” (Herrick, supra,
19 Cal.App.4th at p. 1618.) 
“[T]he record establishes that [the manager] was aware
that [the supervisor] possessed guns on the hotel premises in violation of the
employer’s policy and that [the manager] was present when [the supervisor] had
been arrested previously for a physical assault on another employee.
Additionally, the record establishes that [the plaintiff] told [the manager]
that [the supervisor] had threatened [the plaintiff] with a gun and that [the
manager] telephoned [the plaintiff] in the early morning begging [the plaintiff]
to forgive [the supervisor], stating [the supervisor] had made a mistake and he
was a good man. The record also establishes that [the manager] had the sole
authority within the hotel to fire hotel employees and that sometime following
the incident, [the supervisor] received a promotion.”  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff
argues that, “[j]ust as the conduct of the general manager in Herrick
was imputed to the employer, so too is Cortes’s conduct imputable to H&D.”  As a result, when Cortes Leon harbored Rivera
Garcia, Plaintiff contends, this “positive misconduct” was imputable to H&D
as Cortes’s statutory employer. 
Herrick, however, did not address the issue of “imputing” the
ratifying manager’s conduct to the employer (the hotel).  “It is axiomatic that cases are not authority
for propositions that are not considered.” 
(The California Gun Rights Foundation v. Superior Court (2020) 49
Cal.App.5th 777, 792.)  The Court of
Appeal in Herrick held that the manager, Anani, ratified the supervisor’s
conduct.  Although the Court of Appeal
affirmed the judgment against the hotel, the Court of Appeal did not address
whether the hotel ratified the supervisor’s conduct. 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that that Cortes Leon was acting in the course and scope of
his employment with H&D when he harbored Rivera Garcia after the shooting.  But Herrick does not support the
conclusion that H&D ratified Rivera Garcia’s conduct because the decision
does not discuss whether the employer (the hotel) ratified the supervisor’s
conduct. 
“[T]he
doctrine of respondeat superior cannot be used to extend the [Labor Code]
section 3602, subdivision (b)(1) exception to [workers’ compensation]
exclusivity to an employer.”  (Fretland
v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1486 (Fretland);
see id. at p. 1487 [“liability under section 3602, subdivision (b)(1),
must be based on positive misconduct by the employer and not on a theory of
vicarious liability such as that which forms the basis of the doctrine of
respondeat liability”].) 
However,
“the prohibition against imposing vicarious liability on an employer does not
apply when there was ‘positive misconduct’ by the employer such as when the
employer ‘ratified’ the tortious conduct of its employee and thereby became ‘liable
for the employee’s wrongful conduct as a joint participant.’”  (Fretland, supra, 69 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1489, quoting Iverson v. Atlas Pacific Engineering (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d
219, 228 (Iverson).) 
“ ‘Ratification
is the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some manner as his own an act
which was purportedly done on his behalf by another person, the effect of
which, as to some or all persons, is to treat the act as if originally
authorized by him. [Citations.] A purported agent’s act may be adopted
expressly or it may be adopted by implication based on conduct of the purported
principal from which an intention to consent to or adopt the act may be fairly
inferred, including conduct which is “inconsistent with any reasonable
intention on his part, other than that he intended approving and adopting it.” ’
” [Citations.]” (Fretland, supra, 69 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1490-1491,
quoting Rakestraw v. Rodrigues (1972) 8 Cal.3d 67, 73.) 
To
support his ratification claim, Plaintiff alleges that, before the shooting:
(1) Defendants were the statutory employers of Cortes Leon and Rivera Garcia,
(2) Cortes Leon, as Defendants’ statutory employee, failed to properly
supervise Defendants’ statutory employees and failed to properly hire, monitor,
and/or properly train Defendants’ employees as they performed work on the roof
of the premises, (3) Defendants knew that Rivera Garcia possessed a firearm
that he took to work, knew that Rivera Garcia had been arrested and/or had a criminal
record for assault, were present when Pedro Rivera had exhibited dangerous
and/or erratic behavior that could a pose a danger to other, and/or knew he
used drugs while on the job, and (4) despite this knowledge, including
complaints about Rivera Garcia from other employees, H&D, Golden Lyon d/b/a
W.Y. and other Defendants continued to employ Rivera Garcia. 
Plaintiff
also alleges that, after the shooting, Defendants ratified Rivera Garcia’s
conduct by (1) failing to adequately investigate and/or repudiate Rivera
Garcia’s conduct and (2) serving as accessories after they knew that Pedro
Rivera shot Plaintiff (based on Cortes Leon’s alleged statements or conduct
attempting to harbor, conceal, and aid Rivera Garcia in avoiding arrest, trial,
conviction, and punishment). 
The
Court concludes that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts showing that H&D
ratified Rivera Garcia’s conduct for purposes of establishing “positive
misconduct” by H&D that would make it liable for Rivera Garcia’s conduct as
a joint participant.  Because H&D
cannot be vicariously liable based on conduct by Rivera Garcia or Cortes Leon,
and the complaint does not allege facts showing H&D ratified Rivera Garcia’s
conduct, the Court sustains the demurrer. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court SUSTAINS Defendant H&D Gateway LLC’s demurrer to the second cause of
action of the second amended complaint with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.