 Case Number:  BC724203    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 4, 2018, Plaintiff Megan Reese (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants California Back and Pain Specialists (“Specialists”), Nova Surgical
Institute, Inc. (“Nova”), Vikram Singh, M.D. aka Vikramjeet Singh, M.D.
(“Singh”), and Does 1-100 for professional negligence. 
On
November 21, 2018, Nova filed an answer. On June 1, 2022, the Court dismissed
Nova with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
August 30, 2019, Specialists and Singh ("Defendants") filed an
answer. 
On
June 13, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
On
March 20, 2024, the parties stipulated that the 5-year deadline to bring this
matter to trial was extended to November 11, 2024. 
On
March 29, 2024, Defendants moved for issue sanctions or, in the alternative,
evidentiary sanctions.  Plaintiff has not
filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 13, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUEST 
Defendants ask the Court to impose issue sanctions or, in the alternative, evidentiary
sanctions, on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an
issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030.)         

B.   Sanctions for failure to comply with Court order to
respond to demand for inspection 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c),
provides in part: 
“If a party . . . fails to obey [an] order [under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (b)] compelling a response [to
a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling], the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).)               
C.   Sanctions for failure to comply with Court order to
respond to interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides in part: 
“If a party then fails to obey an order [under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (b)] compelling answers [to
interrogatories], the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
A
violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky).)   
DISCUSSION 
On March 8, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion
to compel responses to requests for production of documents, set five, and
ordered Plaintiff to provide verified code-compliant responses, without
objections, and to produce the documents, electronically stored information,
and/or other things requested without objections by March 22, 2024.  The Court
also granted Defendants’ motion to compel responses to special interrogatories,
set five, and ordered Plaintiff to provide verified code-compliant responses to
the special interrogatories, without objections, by March 22, 2024. 
Plaintiff has not complied with the Court’s March 8,
2024 order.  Defendants asks the Court,
as a result, to impose issue sanctions or, in the alternative,
evidentiary sanctions, precluding Plaintiff from introducing at trial (1) any
testimony or evidence pertaining to claims for medical expenses or loss of
earnings or earning capacity, which Defendants sought in their Fifth set of
Special Interrogatories, and (2) any testimony or evidence pertaining to
claims for medical expenses or loss of earnings or earning capacity, which Defendants sought in their Fifth set of Requests for Production of Documents. 
Defendants also ask the Court to issue an order
precluding Plaintiff from introducing at trial any testimony from Daniel
Krashin, M.D. (“Dr. Krashin”), Joshua Prager, M.D. (“Dr. Prager”), and Tamorah
Hunt, Ph.D., (“Dr. Hunt”).  Defendants
assert the following:  On November 20,
2022, Plaintiff designated Dr. Krashin, Dr. Prager, and Dr. Hunt as experts. On February 12, 2024, Defendants served
deposition notices to depose Dr. Hunt, Dr. Krashin and Dr. Prager on
March 8, 2024, March 4, 2024, and March 6, 2024, respectively.  Plaintiff did
not respond or object to the deposition notices. On March 6, 2024, Defendants
served deposition notices to depose Dr. Hunt, Dr. Krashin and Dr. Prager again
on April 2, 2024, March 27, 2024, and April 1, 2024, respectively. Plaintiff
again did not object to the deposition notices. On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff
responded and was unable to produce Dr. Krashin for his deposition. Plaintiff
was silent with respect to Dr. Hunt and Dr. Prager. 
The Court finds that Defendants’ requests for issue or
evidentiary sanctions would have the effect of terminating
sanctions.  Plaintiff has violated one
discovery order to date.  Defendants have
not shown that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing
compliance with the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128
Cal.App.4th at pp. 279-280.)  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion for issue
sanctions or, in the alternative, evidentiary sanctions filed by Defendants California
Back and Pain Specialists and Vikram Singh, M.D. aka Vikramjeet Singh, M.D. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.