 Case Number:  23STCV00599    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Christian v. City of Los Angeles
23STCV00599
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment
Tentative
The motion for Summary Judgment filed by Defendants
Cara A. Bartlett and Blake Bartlett is granted.
Background
On January 11, 2023, Bridget Christian
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”) and Does 1
through 100 for premises liability and general negligence arising from a trip
and fall occurring on October 15, 2022, on a sidewalk in front of 2630 North
Vermont Avenue. 
On February 16, 2023, City filed an answer.
On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Blake Bartlett and Cara Bartlett (collectively “the
Bartletts”) as Does 51 and 52. 
On June 27, 2023, the Bartletts filed an
answer.
On May 20, 2024, the Bartletts filed this motion
for summary judgment. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition and a request for
judicial notice on August 13. 
The Bartletts filed a reply (and then a
corrected reply), along with objections to some of Plaintiff’s evidence, on
August 29.
The motion came on for hearing on September 6,
2024. At the close of the hearing, the Court took the matter under submission.
By Minute Order dated September 12, 2024, the
Court vacated the submission and set the motion for further briefing on one
issue and for further hearing (initially October 3, and then continued to
October 7).
Plaintiff filed her supplemental brief on
September 26. The Bartletts filed their supplemental brief on September
30.  
Legal
Standard
“The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing
FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to
each cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A
plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to
show “that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved
each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff
or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or
cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
The
party opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not
simply “rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead
“set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact
exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a
triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce
substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Request
for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of California Streets and Highways
Code, section 5610 and Los Angeles Municipal Code section 62.104. This request
is GRANTED.
Objections
to Evidence
The
Bartletts raise 7 objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. 
Evidence presented in support of, or in opposition to, a
motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (d); Perry v.
Bakewell Hawthorne LLC
(2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers,
except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
The
Court SUSTAINS Objection No. 6, to paragraph 10 of the Declaration of Phillip
Rosescu, as it contains nothing more than legal contentions, which are not the
proper subject of expert testimony.
The
Court SUSTAINS Objection No. 7, to the City’s interrogatory responses, as
discovery responses may be used only against the responding party, and the
responses contain nothing more than legal contentions, not facts.  
The
Court OVERRULES the other objections.
Discussion
The facts of the accident are largely
undisputed for purposes of this motion. The accident occurred on October 15,
2022, on the sidewalk in front of 2630 North Vermont Avenue in Los Angeles. (Defendant’s
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 1.) The accident happened
at night, and there was a dangerous height differential between the sidewalk
slabs that was measured to be between 1¾ and 2¼ inches. (Plaintiff’s Statement
of Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”], Nos. 17-19.) Plaintiff rolled her ankle
(according to her deposition testimony) or tripped and fell (according to the complaint)
and suffered injuries. (PSAMF, No. 33; Complaint, at p. 4.) 
The Bartletts own the abutting private property
at 2630 North Vermont Avenue. (DSUMF, No. 3.) The sidewalk is located on a
public easement/right of way held by City. (DSUMF, Nos. 2, 5.) 
There is evidence that the dangerous condition
had existed since April 2009. (PSAMF, No. 22, 32; Rosescu Decl., ¶ 11.) The Bartletts
have owned the property abutting the sidewalk since July 31, 2020. (PSAMF, No.
14.)
Plaintiff
alleges a single cause of action for negligence against the Bartletts. (This is
the Second Cause of Action in the complaint. The First Cause of Action, for
premises liability, is asserted only against City and Does 1 through 50, and
the Bartletts were named as Does 51 and 52.) 
The
basic elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) the existence of a
legal duty; (2) breach of that
duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) The existence and scope of duty are legal questions
for the court.¿¿(Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 213; Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)
The general rule
governing duty is set forth in Civil Code section 1714: “Everyone is responsible,
not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has,
willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) This establishes what the California
Supreme Court has described as the “default rule” that every person has a legal
duty “to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of
others.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214.)
Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.
(Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) If
a dangerous condition exists, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise
ordinary care either to make the condition reasonably safe for their
[customers’] use or to give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid the
harm.” (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.) 
The
law regarding the liability of landowners with regard to defects or dangerous
conditions on sidewalks abutting their property is well established in numerous
appellate cases. “Under
the common law, a landowner does not have any duty to repair abutting sidewalks
along a public street, and does not owe any duty to pedestrians injured as a
result of a defect in the sidewalks.” (Jordan v. City of Sacramento
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1490 (citing Schaefer v. Lenahan (1944) 63
Cal.App.2d 324, 325).) By statute, specifically Streets and Highways Code
section 5610, abutting property owners have an obligation to repair defects in
the sidewalk, regardless of whether they created the defects. (See Jones v.
Deeter (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 798, 803.) Nonetheless, the so-called
“Sidewalk Accident Doctrine” provides that abutting property owners have no
duty to members of the public in tort law, and are not liable to members of the
public, unless the property owner created the defect or exercised dominion or
control over the abutting sidewalk. (Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 244, 255; Jordan, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1490-91
[Section 5610 “imposes a duty of repair on the abutting property owners for
defects in sidewalks, regardless of who created the defects, but does not of
itself create tort liability to injured pedestrians or a duty to indemnify
municipalities, except where a property owner created the defect or exercised
dominion or control over the abutting sidewalk”]; see also Contreras v.
Anderson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 188, 196; Jones, supra, 152
Cal.App.3d at pp. 802-803.)  
Thus, for more than 150 years the general rule has been that “in
the absence of a statute, a landowner is under no duty to maintain in a safe
condition a public street or sidewalk abutting his property.” (Lopez, supra,
55 Cal.App.5th at p. 255.) “[A] person’s ownership or occupancy of property,
without more, is insufficient to impose a duty to maintain abutting, publicly
owned property. (Id. at p. 256; see also Isaacs v.
Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 134 [“A defendant
cannot be held liable for the defective or dangerous condition of property
which it did not own, possess, or control.”]; Williams v. Foster (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 510, 521 [“we are unwilling to find the duty to maintain the
sidewalk established by section 5610 is owed to members of the public in the
absence of clear and unambiguous legislative language, especially in view of
the long-standing judicial determination that abutters ordinarily have no such
duty”].) 
This general
rule of no duty has an important exception: when the abutting property owner
has “exercised control” over the otherwise public property. (Lopez, supra,
55 Cal.App.5th at p. 255.) For this exception to apply, the abutting owner must
take some affirmative action regarding the public property, such as when the
abutting owner has created the hazard or asserted “dominion and control over
the … publicly owned property by effectively treating the property as its own.”
(Id. at p. 256.)
Here, the
Bartletts argue essentially (1) the accident occurred on a sidewalk that was
the City’s public property; (2) as the abutting property owner, they had no
duty to Plaintiff or other members of the public to maintain the sidewalk in a
safe condition or to warn of the dangerous condition (or at least no such duty
that can be enforced through private tort litigation); and (3) they did not
cause or contribute to the dangerous condition or exercise control over the
sidewalk where the accident occurred.
On the first
point, the evidence is undisputed. (DSUMF, No. 2.)
On the second
point, the Bartletts are correct on the law. Under the Sidewalk Accident
Doctrine, they owed no duty to Plaintiff or other members of the public –
unless they caused or contributed to the dangerous condition or exercised
control over the sidewalk. To the extent that Plaintiff presents arguments to
the contrary (contending, for example, that the Bartletts had a duty, and breached
their duty, to Plaintiff to maintain the sidewalk, to make it safe, or to warn
of the dangerous condition), those arguments lack merit.
The third point,
however, requires a more extended discussion.
On this third
point, the Bartletts met their initial burden, as defendants moving for summary
judgment, of presenting evidence to show that they did not cause or contribute
to the dangerous condition or exercise control over the sidewalk. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The Bartletts showed that from the time that they acquired
the property in 2020 to the date of the accident, they did not exclude members
of the public from the sidewalk; they did not exercise control over the
sidewalk; they did not perform any construction work on or affecting the
sidewalk; and they did not otherwise damage, modify, or change the condition of
the sidewalk. (DSUMF, Nos. 4, 8.) The Bartletts further presented evidence that
the uplift in the sidewalk was caused by root growth from a tree located on
public property in front of the Roosevelt Municipal Golf Course. (DSUMF, Nos.
10, 12; Stivers Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5, & 10.)
This initial
showing by the moving parties shifts the burden on summary judgment to
Plaintiff to present evidence to show that there are triable, disputed issues
as to one or more material facts. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  
Plaintiff has
done so. Plaintiff has presented evidence that the Bartletts entered and exited
their property in vehicles using the driveway, and in doing so they naturally
crossed the sidewalk. (PSAMF, No. 26; Blake Bartlett Depo., at 19:4-23.)
Plaintiff further presented expert testimony that the concrete of sidewalks
becomes weak when it has voids beneath it from an offset, and even ordinary
vehicle use of a driveway can cause cracking and exacerbate the displacement of
the sidewalk slabs. (PSAMF, Nos. 23-24; Greeley Decl., ¶ 7; Rosescu Decl., ¶
8.) As a result, even though the dangerous condition existed long before the
Bartletts became the owners of the abutting property, Plaintiff argues that there
is evidence in the record from which a finder of fact could draw a reasonable
inference that the Bartletts’ ordinary use of their driveway contributed – in
at least some material degree – to the dangerous condition of the sidewalk.
But the Lopez
case, supra, is directly to the contrary. In Lopez, a recent
case from the Second District Court of Appeal, the plaintiff “tripped and fell
in a pothole located on city-owned property where the lip of a driveway and the
gutter meet.” (55 Cal.App.5th at p. 250.) Plaintiff brought suit against the
City of Los Angeles and Wally’s Wine & Spirits (“Wally’s”) a private company
that leased the abutting property. After the jury returned a verdict against
both the City and Wally’s, the trial court granted the motion of Wally’s for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict. On appeal, the Second District Court of
Appeal framed the issue as follows:
“Has the commercial business
leasing the property that the driveway services exercised control over the
location of the pothole (so as to create a duty of care to passersby) when the
business has done no more than put the driveway and gutter to their ‘ordinary
and accustomed’ uses?” 
(Ibid.)
Notably, the
Court of Appeal stated: “The pothole was caused by deterioration of the asphalt
due to regular use of the driveway by vehicles and due to water flowing in the
gutter.” (Id., at p. 251.) Thus, there was no question in Lopez that
the use of the driveway and the gutter by the owner of the private property
abutting the street had caused or contributed to the creation of the dangerous
condition (the pothole) that led to plaintiff’s injury.
Nonetheless,
after reviewing in a comprehensive manner the law relating to the duty of care
owed by one who owns or occupies abutting property, the Court of Appeal affirmed
the ruling of the trial court. The Court based this ruling, in part, on the
absence of any evidence that Wally’s had used the driveway and the gutter for
anything other than their “ordinary and accustomed use.” (Id. at pp. 259,
261.) In the absence of such evidence, the Court held that Wally’s owed no duty
of care to the plaintiff or other members of the public with regard to the
pothole on city-owned property.
Thus, under the
Sidewalk Accident Doctrine as interpreted by Lopez, the Bartletts’ ordinary
use of their driveway (including crossing the sidewalk with their vehicles as
they entered and exited their private, abutting property ) does not constitute “control”
of the sidewalk sufficient to impose negligence liability against them.
In their opposition,
and in the supplemental brief, Plaintiff argues that the Bartletts’ use of the
driveway (including the sidewalk near to where the accident occurred) exceeded
the standard for ordinary use; in particular, Plaintiff argues that because of
the shape of the driveway, vehicles entering the property likely had to pull forward
and then back up several times to make the sharp turn required to travel from the
street to the garage (and the same would presumably be true, in reverse, for
vehicles exiting the property). (See Rosecue Decl., ¶ 8, Fig. 3, and Photograph
16.) But, as a matter of law, such use is ordinary use of a driveway. Plaintiff
presents no evidence of unusual or extraordinary use of the driveway (for
example, for transportation or storage of unusually heavy vehicles or any type
of construction work or other destructive activity by the Bartletts) or other
evidence of control of the sidewalk. Driving back and forth over the driveway,
even if it occurs more than once per entry and exit, is ordinary use and cannot
provide a basis for negligence liability against an owner of abutting property
under Lopez. 
In sum, once the
Bartletts met their initial burden on summary judgment, the burden shifted to Plaintiff
to present evidence to show that there are triable issues as to one or more
material facts. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiff has not done so. Accordingly, the Bartletts’
motion for summary judgment is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the motion for summary
judgment filed by Blake Bartlet and Cara Bartlett.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.