 Case Number:  21STCV26220    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Stern v. Vaughn
21STCV26220
Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Jury Trial
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July 15, 2021, Dale Stern (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Nathaniel Vaughn (“Vaughn”), Gale Gordon (“Gordon”), Doordash
Inc. (“Doordash”), and Does 1 through 20 for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence arising out of an accident occurring on March 30, 2021.
On October 29, 2021, Doordash filed an answer.  On August 29, 2022, Vaughn and Gordon filed
an answer and demand for jury trial.
On December 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed and served a notice
of posting jury fees.
On February 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”).  In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges (among other things): (1) that Vaughn was the driver of the vehicle
that struck Plaintiff; (2) that Gordon was the owner of the vehicle; (3) that
Vaughn was an employee of Doordash acting within the scope of his employment,
making Doordash vicariously liable for Vaughn’s negligence; and (4) in the
alternative, if Vaughn was an independent contractor, Doordash was negligent in
failing to provide training to Vaughn. 
On April 10, 2023, Doordash filed an answer to the FAC.  On the same day, Vaughn and Gordon filed an
answer to the FAC and demand for jury trial.
On September 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this motion for an order granting relief from potential waiver of jury
trial. On September 23, 2024, Doordash filed an opposition, and on the same day
Vaughn and Gordon filed an opposition. Plaintiff filed a reply on September 30.
 
Trial is set for October 14, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Trial by jury is an
inviolate right and shall be secured to all.” (Cal. Const., art. I, § 16.) “In
a civil cause a jury may be waived by the consent of the parties expressed as
prescribed by statute.” (Ibid.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 631 is the primary statute addressing waiver of a jury trial in a civil
case. Under section 631, subdivision(f)(5), a party waives their right to a
jury trial by not timely posting jury fees. Jury fees must be paid “on or before
the date scheduled for the initial case management conference in the action”;
where there is no case management conference, the fees are due “no later than
365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 631, subd. (c) & (c)(2).) 
 
“The court may, in its
discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been
a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id., subd. (g).) 
 
The California Supreme
Court recently addressed the exercise of this discretion in TriCoast
Builders, Inc. v. Fonnegra (2024) 15 Cal.5th 766. In ruling on a request
for relief from waiver of jury trial: 
 
“[T]he primary
consideration is … whether granting relief from waiver would result in any
hardship to other parties or to the court, such as delay in rescheduling the
trial for a jury or inconvenience to witnesses. But courts have also regularly
considered other factors, including the timeliness of the request; whether the
requester is willing to comply with applicable requirements for payment of jury
fees; and the reasons supporting the request.” (15 Cal.5th at pp. 779-780.) 
 
“[T]he presence or absence
of hardship is not always dispositive,” and the court may, in its discretion,
also consider (among other things) whether the motion for relief from waiver
“simply reflects a belated change of heart about trial tactics” or is being
used as a “pretext” to obtain a continuance. (Id., at p. 780.) But when
a party “has timely given notice that it desires trial by jury” but then loses
that right by nonpayment of fees, “lack of hardship to the other parties or the
court is generally controlling, absent other factors that weigh against
relief.” (Id., at p. 782.) 
 
In ruling on request from
relief from waiver under section 631, subdivision (g), “courts are mindful of
the requirement ‘to resolve doubts in interpreting the waiver provisions of
section 631 in favor of a litigant's right to jury trial.’” (Tesoro del
Valle Master Homeowners Assn. v. Griffin (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638, quoting
Grafton Partners v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 956.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states
that Plaintiff inadvertently failed to post fees and demand a jury trial in a
timely manner. (De Simone Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5, & 7.) Plaintiff posted jury fees and
filed and served a notice of posting jury fees on December 28, 2022.  Although the posting of fees was untimely by
approximately five months, there is no indication that this was a deliberate
tactical decision, that Plaintiff is having a belated change of heart, or that
this is a pretext for a continuance. Inadvertence is a factor that weighs in
support of granting the motion. 
 
Although the presence or
absence of prejudice is not independently dispositive, the Court notes that Defendants
Vaughn and Gordon have twice filed answers with demands for jury trial; that
all Defendants have been on notice for approximately 22 months that Plaintiff
posted jury fees; and that all parties have been preparing pre-trial documents
for a jury trial.  Under these
circumstances, the Court does not credit the statements of Defendants’ counsel
that they have not been preparing for at least the possibility that the case
would be tried to a jury.  The Court
finds that granting this relief would not cause any undue or unfair prejudice
to Defendants.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff
did not timely post jury fees; that in doing so, Plaintiff waived the right to jury trial;
that this waiver was inadvertent; and that no party would suffer any undue or
unfair prejudice from a court order granting relief from waiver.
 
After considering all of
the evidence in the record, the Court exercises its discretion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 631, subdivision (g), to grant relief from waiver and
to allow a trial by jury.
 
In the alternative, Doordash
requests a continuance of the trial date. 
The Court notes that Doordash filed a motion to continue trial that is
set for hearing on October 10, 2024.  As
it relates to this motion (only), the Court denies Doordash’s alternative
request for a trial continuance; Doordash has not shown good cause for a trial
continuance in connection with Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver.  The Court expresses no views at this time on
the pending motion filed by Doordash for a continuance on other grounds; the
denial of the continuance request in Doordash’s opposition to this motion is
without prejudice as to the motion to continue set for hearing on October 10.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver of jury trial.
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.