 This is an employment action.  Defendants Faraday Future Intelligent Electric, Inc., Faraday & Future Inc., Yueting Jia, and Nan Yang now seek to compel arbitration. Plaintiff Jose Guerrero argues that Defendants waived arbitration when they failed to timely pay arbitration fees.  Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.97(a)(1) states, “In an employment or consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs before the arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under Section 1281.2.”Defendants contend that the FAA applies and, in any case, the FAA preempts Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.97.  (Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, 244.)The first issue is whether the FAA or CAA applies because CCP § 1281.97 is a part of the CAA.  Indeed, “if parties agree to apply the FAA's procedural provisions, rather than the procedures of the CAA, then the state arbitration procedures do not apply and there is no preemption issue.”  (Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, 240.)The Court concludes that the FAA applies such that CCP § 1281.97 is inapplicable.  Indeed, the subject agreement states, “This Agreement is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.).”  Further, it states, “The arbitrator shall decide [dispositive] motions based on the case law applied to such motions under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 12 and 56 . . . .”  There are no references to California procedural law.  The only reference to California law is the types of claims encompassed by the agreement, which is irrelevant.  This situation is nearly identical to the one in Hernandez.  “The parties selected the procedural provisions of the FAA and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and therefore, the procedures of the CAA, including section 1281.97, do not apply.”  (Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, 241-42.)Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  “ ‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘ “oppression” ’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results. [Citation.] ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation.] But they need not be present in the same degree.... [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)As to substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff argues that “the agreement unlawfully permits judicial review of the Arbitration Award. Under well-established California law, as explained by the California Supreme Court in Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1 and numerous California cases following that decision, California Courts ‘will not review the validity of the arbitrator’s reasoning,’ the ‘sufficiency of the evidence supporting an arbitrator’s award,’ or any ‘errors of fact or law’ in the award.”While judicial review of errors is not ordinarily permitted, the parties might be able to agree to contrary terms.  The agreement states: “The arbitrator shall not have the power to commit errors of law or legal reasoning, and the award may be vacated or corrected on appeal to a state court of competent jurisdiction for any such error. As to these standards, the parties choose not to follow the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.).”  “[T]o take themselves out of the general rule that the merits of the award are not subject to judicial review, the parties must clearly agree that legal errors are an excess of arbitral authority that is reviewable by the courts. . . . we emphasize that parties seeking to allow judicial review of the merits, and to avoid an additional dispute over the scope of review, would be well advised to provide for that review explicitly and unambiguously.”  (Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1361.) Because Plaintiff failed to establish substantive unconscionability, his argument is rejected.Plaintiff does not otherwise challenge the validity of the subject agreement or that it encompasses his claims.  Therefore, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  This action is stayed.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 