This is an employment action.  Defendants Reyes Coca-Cola Bottling, LLC and Reyes Holdings, LLC seek to compel arbitration of this matter based on an arbitration agreement that Plaintiff April Berryhill purportedly executed as a component of her employment.Plaintiff Berryhill argues that (1) the FAA does not apply, (2) there is not sufficient evidence that there was a valid agreement to arbitrate, and (3) any agreement is unconscionable.Plaintiff’s first argument is somewhat perplexing because even if the FAA does not apply, the CAA would apply and it is not clear why the CAA would preclude arbitration.  Next, the Court finds that there is sufficient evidence that the subject agreement was signed electronically by Plaintiff.  (Yang Decl. ¶¶ 5-15; Barrios Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.)  Plaintiff cannot meet her burden in opposing the instant Motion by providing that she does not recall any arbitration agreement.  (Blau v. AT&T (N.D. Cal. 2012) 2012 WL 10546 at *4.)   Further, “ordinarily one who signs an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent to all its terms. A party cannot avoid the terms of a contract on the ground that he or she failed to read it before signing.”  (Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.)Plaintiff also argues that the agreement cannot be enforced because Defendants did not sign it.  Plaintiff, however, fails to recognize the agreement would function akin to a policy agreement.  Plaintiff further contends that the agreement is unconscionable.  “ ‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘ “oppression” ’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results. [Citation.] ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation.] But they need not be present in the same degree.... [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)Plaintiff argues there is substantive unconscionability because the agreement indicates that the parties are to bear their own fees whereas the FEHA and other statutes could allow Plaintiff to obtain fees.  This lacks merit.  The agreement specifically states, “However, if any party prevails on a statutory claim which affords the prevailing party attorneys’ fees and/or costs, or if there is a written agreement providing for fees and/or costs, the arbitrator may award reasonable fees and costs to the prevailing party, in accordance with such statute or agreement, if otherwise allowed by applicable law.”Plaintiff also argues that “the Agreement applies to successors in interests and heirs and assigns and forbids them from pursuing any ‘representative’ claim in arbitration. Thus, the arbitration agreement unlawfully precludes wrongful death actions, and employee’s right to seeks wages through a representative in the event he or she lacks capacity to bring a direct claim.”The Court disagrees with this interpretation.  It is common for such an agreement to apply to successors and related parties.  On the other hand, the agreement does not indicate that wrongful death claims or the like are precluded.  The Court reads the agreement as indicating that representative claims akin to class actions are precluded.  And even then, PAGA claims are explicitly permitted.  Additionally, to the extent the agreement can be interpreted as precluding wrongful death or other non-waivable claims, then the Court would merely strike this provision per Civ. Code § 1670.50.Next, Plaintiff contends that “although the arbitrator selection process appears to be fair—the employee and employer can strike up to three names from a JAMS provided list of nine potential arbitrators, it contravenes Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.9 and 91, which provides a party the right to move to disqualify an arbitrator after it is provided with an arbitrator’s disclosure statement. It also contravenes Code of Civil Procedure section 170.1 which sets forth statutory grounds for judicial disqualification.”  There is nothing unfair about the selection process that can be seen as favoring Defendants, and Plaintiff fails to provide a coherent explanation as to how her disqualification rights have been compromised. Plaintiff also argues that “the agreement requires Plaintiff to arbitrate any sexual harassment claims in arbitration, whereas those claims are barred from arbitration under the End Forced Arbitration Act.”  If Plaintiff currently had a harassment claim, the EFAA could apply to preclude arbitration of that claim.  Plaintiff does not currently have such a claim.  Furthermore, “we must analyze the circumstances as they existed ‘at the time [the contract] was made’ to determine if gross unfairness was apparent at that time.”  (Am. Software, Inc. v. Ali (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1386, 1392.)  The contract was executed in October 2017 whereas EFAA was enacted in March 2022.  Thus, it is not apparent how, at the time the contract was executed, the agreement was overly harsh or showed an improper purpose.  Finally, Plaintiff points to the agreement’s confidentiality provision as favoring employers.   The Court finds this alone to be a very low degree of substantive unconscionability.  Even if there were a high degree of procedural unconscionability, the Court cannot determine that the agreement is unconscionable.  Because a valid arbitration agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s claims, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  The action is stayed.  (CCP § 1281.4.)  The RJN is granted.  The objections are overruled.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 