  Case Number:  21NWCV00087    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  SEC ROJAS v. EL RANCHO UNIFIED SCHOOL DIST.CASE NO.: 21NWCV00087HEARING: 01/09/25#6Defendants’ EL RANCHO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT and FRANCES ESPARZA’s Motion for Summary Judgment or alternatively Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Thursday, February 13, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. Revised Opposition and Supplemental Reply to be filed and served per Code in accordance with the new hearing date.Opposing Party to give notice.Plaintiff ALEJANDRO ROJAS (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action on February 16, 2021, against Defendants EL RANCHO UNIFIED SCHOOL DIST., and FRANCIS ESPARZA (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges that “[b]eginning in September of 2019, while Plaintiff was employed by ERUSD as its Assistant Superintendent of Business Services, he sent multiple emails… in which he disclosed his reasonable belief that ERUSD was engaging in acts that were in violation of California laws.” (Complaint ¶12.) “After Plaintiff disclosed the violation of the law, and prospective violations of law… ERUSD… began to engage in adverse employment actions against Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶20.) Plaintiff alleges that he was forced to resign on August 16, 2020 due to sex-based discrimination, retaliation from whistleblowing, and “intolerable working conditions.Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts the following causes of action:(1) Whistleblower Retaliation in Violation of Lab. Code §1102.5;(2) Discrimination Based on Sex in Violation of Gov. Code §12940(a);(3) Harassment Based on Sex in Violation of Gov. Code §12940(j)(1);(4) Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation in Violation of Gov. Code §12940(k);(5) Defamation;(6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;(7) Breach of Employment Contract;(8) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair DealingDefendants move for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication as to each cause of action.Trial is scheduled to begin on May 28, 2025.In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ Motion should be denied because there are facts and evidence to support Plaintiff’s claims and that Defendants have failed to meet their burden of showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. Plaintiff also argues that Defendants’ Motion should be denied because their Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts contains non-material facts and compound statements of multiple facts instead of separate facts.Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Opposition to the Subject Motion is 40 pages long.Defendants argue in Reply that this Court should disregard all pages of Plaintiff’s Opposition that exceed the 20-page limit.“In a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum of points and authorities shall exceed 20 pages.” (CRC Rule 3.1113(d).) “A party may apply to the court ex parte but with written notice of the application to the other parties, at least 24 hours before the memorandum is due, for permission to file a longer memorandum. The application must state reasons why the argument cannot be made within the stated limit.” (CRC Rule 3.113(e).) “A memorandum that exceeds the page limits of these rules shall be filed and considered in the same manner as a late-filed paper.” (CRC Rule 3.113(g).)CRC Rule 3.1300(d) permits the court, in its discretion, to consider a late-filed paper: “No paper shall be rejected for filing on the ground it was untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order shall so state.”Here, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities submitted in Opposition to the Motion begins on page 9 and concludes on page 49, so is 40 pages long. That is 20 pages longer than the 20-page limit. Plaintiff did not apply ex parte to file a memorandum exceeding the page limits.In the interests of justice and adjudication of this dispositive Motion on the merits, the Court DENIES Defendants’ request to strike all pages of Plaintiff’s Opposition that exceed the 20-page limit. Rather, the Court will CONTINUE this hearing as indicated above, and ORDER Plaintiff to file a Revised (condensed) Memorandum of Points and Authorities that is 20 pages or less in accordance with the CRC. Defendants are granted leave to file a Supplemental Reply, if necessary.