 Case Number:  22STCV24376    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
22, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Kimberly Echeverria v. Elite Veterinary Corporation
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV24376





















 
PLAINTIFF
KIMBERLY ECHEVERRIA’S MOTION TO QUASH 
DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PERSONAL APPEARANCE 
AND
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Kimberly Echeverria 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Elite
Veterinary Corporation dba Animal Medical Center of the Antelope Valley
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Kimberly Echeverria (“Echeverria” or “Plaintiff”)
began working for Elite Veterinary Corporation (“Elite Veterinary”) in July
2021.  Echeverria later became
pregnant.  During her pregnancy,
Echeverria suffered extreme morning illness which forced her to miss work or
caused her to begin work later than her scheduled shift.  Because of her need for intermittent
pregnancy leave and modest accommodation, Elite Veterinary reduced her hours
and allegedly wrongfully terminated her. 
Since then, Echeverria has been unable to obtain employment in another
veterinary clinic.
 
On October 26, 2022, Echeverria filed a Complaint against
Elite Veterinary, and Does 1 through 10, for (1) Pregnancy/Gender
Discrimination, (2) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, (3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Denial of Pregnancy Disability Leave
Rights, (5) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate, (6) Failure to Engage in a Good
Faith Interactive Process, and (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy.  Echeverria later amended the
Complaint naming Elite Veterinary’s owner, Dr. David Lahijaniha (“Dr. David”), as
Doe 1.  
 
            On February
21, 2024, Echeverria filed a motion to quash Elite Veterinary’s subpoena
(hereafter, “Records Subpoena”) directed to Echeverria’s prior employer, North
Valley Veterinary Clinic, Inc. (“North Valley”).  Echeverria argued that (1) the subpoena sought
records that were neither relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence, and (2) the subpoena violated Plaintiff’s
right to privacy.  The motion was heard
on April 30, 2024.  Elite Veterinary
argued that the documents were relevant to showing that “Plaintiff is unable to
obtain employment not because of statements made by Dr. David, but rather
because of negative comments made by North Valley to prospective employers.”  The court agreed Defendant provided a viable
theory of relevance but granted the motion to quash because the subpoena did
not track Elite Veterinary’s stated theory.
            
            The
Instant Motion to Quash
 
            On March
20, 2024, Elite Veterinary served North Valley with a notice of deposition and
deposition subpoena of North Valley’s Person Most Qualified (hereafter, “PMQ
Subpoena”).  The subpoena notices eight
topics for deposition and requests production of documents on five categories,
all of which relate to Plaintiff’s termination from North Valley.  The production requests are identical to Elite
Veterinary’s subpoena to North Valley seeking Plaintiff’s employment records.
 
            On April 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Quash the PMQ Subpoena.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Elite
Veterinary’s counsel.
 
Defendant filed an opposition.  Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff’s counsel.  
 
Echeverria
replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands such as
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)¿ 
Monetary Sanctions 
            In
making an order pursuant to motion made under¿subdivision (c) of Section
1987¿or under¿Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code of Civ. Proc.
§1987.2.) 
If sanctions are sought, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity
of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction
requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the
facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary
sanction.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Sanctions against counsel:¿
The court in Kwan Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58
Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings) noted that discovery sanctions against an
attorney are governed by a different standard than sanctions against a
party:¿¿ 
¿By the terms of the statute, a
trial court under section 2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against
a party’s attorney unless the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party
to engage in the conduct resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v.
Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike
monetary sanctions against a party, which are based on the party’s misuse of
the discovery process, monetary sanctions against the party’s attorney require
a finding the ‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not
enough that the attorney’s actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v.
Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).)
Because an attorney’s advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her]
knowledge,” the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not
counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking
sanctions against an attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the
discovery process, the burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or
she did not recommend that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr.
247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿¿¿¿ 
III.       DISCUSSION
A.  Production Requests in
the PMQ Subpoena 
1.      All
documents that refer or relate to any warning(s) you gave Echeverria for being
late to work during her employment with you.  
2.      All
documents that reflect the date(s) when Echeverria was late to work during her
employment with you.  
3.      All
documents that relate to any warning(s) you gave Echeverria for not showing up
for her scheduled shifts or “no calling/no showing” during her employment with
you.
4.      All
documents that reflect the date(s) that Echeverria failed to report for her
scheduled shift(s) or “no called/no showed” during her employment with you.  
5.      All
documents that refer or relate to the reason(s) you terminated Echeverria's
employment. 
B.  Topics for Examination in the PMQ Subpoena
TOPIC NO. 1: The DATE range
that ECHEVERRIA was employed by YOU, including the DATE she was hired and the
DATE she was terminated. 
TOPIC NO. 2: YOUR policies
related to employee attendance, including those related to absenteeism and/or
lateness. 
TOPIC NO. 3: YOUR
COMMUNICATION(S) with ECHEVERRIA regarding YOUR policies related to employee
attendance, including those related to absenteeism and/or lateness. 
TOPIC NO. 4: ECHEVERRIA’S
job performance during her employment with YOU. 

TOPIC NO. 5: ECHEVERRIA’s
issues with attendance during her employment with YOU, including but not
limited to absenteeism and/or lateness. 
TOPIC NO. 6: Warnings given
to ECHEVERRIA for being late to work during her employment with YOU. 
TOPIC NO. 7: Warnings given
to ECHEVERRIA for failing to report for her scheduled shifts, including no
calling/no showing. 
TOPIC NO. 8: YOUR
termination of ECHEVERRIA.
C. 
Analysis
Plaintiff challenges the PMQ
Subpoena on the same grounds as the Records Subpoena: (1) the PMQ Subpoena
seeks records that are neither relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence, and (2) the subpoena violates Plaintiff’s
right to privacy.  
Elite Veterinary again argues that
the PMQ Subpoena seeks documents relevant to showing Plaintiff has been unable
to obtain employment because of negative comments made by North Valley to
prospective employers.  
Based on the foregoing, this
discovery dispute boils down to the following: does the PMQ Subpoena track
Elite Veterinary’s stated theory of relevance? 
It does not.  The PMQ Subpoena, as
drafted, seeks information of Plaintiff’s work performance with North Valley
and the reasons for her termination from employment with North Valley.  None of the production requests and topics of
examination inquire into what North Valley communicated to Plaintiff’s
potential employers.  Like the Records
Subpoena, the PMQ Subpoena fails to track Defendant’s theory of relevance.  
Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiff requests sanctions
against Defense Counsel.  Defense counsel
argues sanctions are not warranted because the court previously ruled that
Defendant stated a viable theory of relevance for the discovery sought.  Defendant is correct.  The court stated in its April 30, 2024 order
that Defendant stated a viable theory of relevance.  However, the court granted the motion to
quash the Records Subpoena, and here, has granted the motion to quash the PMQ
Subpoena for the same reason: the production requests and topics of examination
did not track the theory of relevance. 
In other words, the court indicated what information was relevant yet
Defendant did not withdraw or modify its PMQ Subpoena to seek the information to
conform to that theory.  Sanctions
against counsel are therefore warranted. 

 Defense counsel apparently agreed to withdraw
the subpoena.  That said, the only reason
for this hearing is for discovery sanctions. 
Plaintiff counsel makes a good point that by setting the compliance date
for this subpoena (April 29, 2024) one day prior to the hearing on the motion
to quash the first subpoena (April 30, 2024) and refusing to continue the compliance
date or to withdraw the second subpoena prior to the April 30, 2024 hearing
date, Defense counsel left Plaintiff’s counsel with no choice but to bring this
second motion to quash.  Of course, as
Defense Counsel points out, he was willing to engage in an IDC to try and
resolve the issue.   Defense counsel does not provide a good
explanation why the compliance date was set for April 29, 2024, and not
continued or withdrawn until after the April 30, 2024 hearing.  An IDC is not a remedy for such a
decision.  Nonetheless, the court
considers it as a factor.      
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the motion to quash the subpoena is
GRANTED.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against counsel is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s counsel does not clearly state
his hourly rate.  Accordingly, sanctions
are imposed against Defense Counsel in the sum of $1,060, consisting of two
hours at an hourly rate of $500 and $60 in filing fees.  Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff, by and
through her counsel, within 30 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   May 22, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            