 Case Number:  22STCV09188    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 22, 2024                                  TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Maria Hernandez v. Kia America, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV09188
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Maria Hernandez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Kia
America, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This is a Song-Beverly action.  On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff Maria Hernandez
(“Hernandez” or “Plaintiff”) filed this motion to compel Defendant Kia America,
Inc. (“KA”), to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production
of Documents (RPD), Set Two, Nos. 49 and 51. 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against KA and its counsel of record.
 
KA filed an opposition. 
Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
            
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to
requests for production of documents¿where an answer to the request is evasive
or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ The
motion “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service
of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to
compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The
motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Finally, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires
that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
Monetary Sanctions¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or
opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories, the court “shall
impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests for admission admitted,
it is mandatory that the court impose monetary sanctions on the party or
attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to the request
necessitated the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions
against a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery
process, monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the
‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the
attorney's actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an
attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,”
the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery
abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an
attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the
burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend
that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni,
at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿¿ 
 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
seeks a further response to RPD Nos. 49 and 51. 
The court has an Addendum to Case Management Conference Order Re: Song-Beverly
Discovery (the “Addendum”).  With
the Addendum in mind, the court addresses each request in turn.
 
RPD NO. 49:
All DOCUMENTS IDENTIFYING California vehicle repurchases made by YOU of 2020
Kia Forte vehicles that were presented to your authorized repair facility for
the vehicle’s AC blowing warm or hot air. (For purposes of this request, the
term “IDENTIFYING” seeks documents establishing the name of the complaining
PERSON, the complaints made by such PERSON(S), the names of any lawyers
involved as well as case names, court numbers and locations and whether such
repurchase was voluntary or pursuant to a court order.)
 
KA’s response:
In compliance with Code of Civil Procedure 2031.240(b)(1) and (2), KA objects
to the entirety of Plaintiff’s request. More specifically, KA objects to this
omnibus request as not relevant to the subject matter of this action nor
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and as
compound, overly broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, and lacking the requisite
specificity required by the Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.030(c)(1), as
to Plaintiff’s use of terms and phrase “AC blowing warm or hot air” [sic] The
vagueness of the wording in this request evidences an intent to harass. The
burden and expense of searching for and responding to this document request
outweighs the likely benefit of such discovery, taking into account the amount
in controversy, the importance of the issues in the litigation, and the
importance of the discovery in resolving the dispute. Just because another 2020
Kia Forte have had “AC blowing warm or hot air” for which Plaintiff presented
the 2020 Kia Forte, VIN 3KPF24AD8LE217174 with a request for diagnosis and
repair under warranty does not make any such other 2020 Kia Forte’s repair
history substantially similar to the subject vehicle's repair history.
Likewise, just because another 2020 Kia Forte may have been repurchased does not
mean that it was repurchased because it qualified under Song-Beverly for
repurchase or because it had the same alleged recurring substantially impairing
nonconformity as the 2020 Kia Forte, VIN 3KPF24AD8LE217174. KA also objects to
this request to the extent it intrudes the privacy rights of third persons
and/or seeks the discovery of documents protected by the attorney-client
privilege and the attorney work product doctrine and/or documents that are
protected as confidential, proprietary, and/or commercially sensitive. Further,
to the extent this request calls for the production of electronically stored
information, KA objects that this request fails to comport with the
proportionality requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure Section
2016.060(f). KA further objects to this request to the extent it attempts to
impose obligations after the close of non-expert discovery. (California Code of
Civil Procedure § 2024.020.)
 
Court’s Ruling:
Denied.  (See Addendum, 2(h), (i).) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that a further response is warranted because, among other reasons, KA
did not provide a Code-compliant response. 
However, the court finds KA’s overbreadth objection has merit.  Relevant to this ruling in Sections 2(h) and
2(i) of the Addendum, which provide:
 
h.
A list or compilation of customer complaints in Defendant’s electronically
stored information database that are substantially similar to the alleged
defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same
year, make and model of the subject vehicle. A substantially similar customer
complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard
indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description
listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than
routine or scheduled maintenance items. The list provided by Defendant may be
in a chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair
visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’
reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names,
addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying
information. 
 
i.
Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicles purchased or leased
in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
 
            Section
2(h) and 2(i) are the only categories in the Addendum which contemplate
production of documents involving other vehicles of the same make, model, and
year as the Subject Vehicle.  Documents that
reflect repurchases of vehicles of the same make, model, and year of the
Subject Vehicle as requested by RPD No. 49 do not fit within Section 2(h) or
2(i). The definition of IDENTIFYING goes well beyond the scope contemplated in
the Addendum.   RPD No. 49 is overbroad.  A further response is not warranted.
 
RPD No. 51:
All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by California owners of 2020 Kia Forte
vehicles regarding any of the vehicle’s AC blowing warm or hot air for which
the Plaintiff presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE to you or your authorized repair
facility for repair. 
 
KA’s Response:
In compliance with Code of Civil Procedure 2031.240(b)(1) and (2), KA objects
to the entirety of Plaintiff’s request. More specifically, KA objects to this
omnibus request as not relevant to the subject matter of this action nor
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and as
compound, overly broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, and lacking the requisite
specificity required by the Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.030(c)(1), as
to Plaintiff’s use of terms and phrase “All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints”
and “regarding any of the vehicle’s AC blowing warm or hot air for which the
Plaintiff presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE to you or your authorized repair
facility for repair.” The vagueness of the wording in this request evidences an
intent to harass. The burden and expense of searching for and responding to
this document request outweighs the likely benefit of such discovery, taking
into account the amount in controversy, the importance of the issues in the litigation,
and the importance of the discovery in resolving the dispute. Just because
another 2020 Kia Forte owner or lessee may have had a general “complaint”
regarding some vague “AC blowing warm or hot air or nonconformity” which
Plaintiff presented the 2020 Kia Forte, VIN 3KPF24AD8LE217174 with a request
for diagnosis and repair under warranty does not make any such complaint
relevant. By providing a written warranty accompanying the 2020 Kia Forte, KA
acknowledged that such vehicles might have repairs under warranty after an
owner or lessee made a “complaint.” KA also objects to this request to the
extent it intrudes the privacy rights of third persons and/or seeks documents
that are protected as confidential, proprietary, and/or commercially sensitive
and/or documents protected by the attorney-client privilege and the attorney
work-product doctrine by use of the terms “All DOCUMENTS evidencing.” Further,
to the extent this request calls for the production of electronically stored
information, KA objects that this request fails to comport with the
proportionality requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure Section
2016.060(f). KA further objects to this request to the extent it attempts to
impose obligations after the close of nonexpert discovery. (California Code of
Civil Procedure § 2024.020.)
 
Court’s Ruling:
GRANTED.  (Addendum 2(h).)
 
            The court
reaches a different conclusion as to RPD No. 51. This production request seeks
documents which are expressly provided under Addendum 2(h). 
 
            Discovery
Deadline
 
            KA objected
to the discovery requests (and this motion) as having been propounded (and the
motion filed) after the discovery deadline had passed.  KA relies on the court’s September 7, 2023
order granting Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the trial date and
all trial related dates.  Trial was
continued to April 22, 2024.  
 
KA argues that the September 7, 2023 order does not
expressly state that all trial related dates, including discovery, were
likewise continued and set to the new trial date.  The court is not persuaded.  The court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application in full.  (See Minute Order,
09/07/23.)  Therefore, all trial related
dates were set to the new trial date of April 22, 2024.  Plaintiff timely propounded this discovery and
timely filed this motion.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Because the court has denied in part this motion, the court
finds KA acted with substantial justification in filing an opposition.  The court declines to impose sanctions.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion is Granted as to RPD No. 51 and Denied as to RPD
No. 49.  Defendant is ordered to provide
a further response to RPD No. 51 within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
            The request
for sanctions is Denied.
 
Clerk of the Court to give notice.
 
Dated:   May 22, 2024                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 