 Case Number:  21STCV40842    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
22, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  October 14, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Isabel Arteaga v. Calcrete
Construction, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV40842
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEFENDANT CALCRETE CONSTRUCTION, INC.’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES (SET TWO)
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEFENDANT CALCRETE CONSTRUCTION, INC.’S RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR
DOCUMENTS (SET TWO)



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Isabel Arteaga
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Calcrete
Construction, Inc.
 
 
 
            On March 8,
2024, Plaintiff, Isabel Arteaga, filed these motions to compel Defendant, Calcrete
Construction, Inc., to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Special
Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant.
                                                     
            On May 17,
2024, Defense Counsel filed untimely declarations opposing the request for
sanctions.  Defense Counsel explains that
verified, objection-free responses were served along with responsive documents
on April 30, 2024.  Plaintiff does not
dispute service of the discovery responses. 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the motions are moot.  The
only remaining issue is whether the court should impose sanctions.
 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  
 
 
            Defense
Counsel requests that the court exercise its discretion not to impose
sanctions.  He explains the delay in
obtaining and providing substantive responses was attributable to Counsel’s
illness and frequent medical leaves during the pertinent time.  Further, the client does not speak English
fluently, which delayed obtaining discovery responses. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues, in part, that Defense Counsel’s timeline of events he was in the office
yet still did not prepare discovery responses until the eve of the hearing for
this motion.  Plaintiff points out that she
met and conferred multiple times, allowed additional time, filed an ex parte application
and motions to compel, attended multiple status conferences regarding the
status of Defendant’s discovery responses, and prepared multiple declarations
regarding the same.
 
            Given the
foregoing, the court will impose reduced sanctions in consideration of Defense
Counsel’s illness and Plaintiff’s efforts to obtain discovery responses.  The court imposes sanctions against Defendant
in the sum of $1,120 consisting of two hours at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly
rate and $120 in filing fees.
 
            CONCLUSION
 
            The motions
are Moot.  
 
            The request
for sanctions is Granted.  Defendant is ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,120.00 to Plaintiff, by and through her
counsel, within 30 days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   May 22, 2024                                     




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 