  Case Number:  22STCV29253    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EBONY ELAINE MOSS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PROPERTY I.D. CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29253
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 4, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendants Property I.D. Title Company, All California Title
and Escrow Company as successor in interest to Property I.D. Title Company,
(collectively with Property I.D. Title Company, the “Company”), and Property
I.D. Corporation (collectively, “Defendants”) move, for summary judgment on the
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Ebony Elaine Moss
(“Plaintiff”). Defendants additionally move for summary adjudication on each of
Plaintiff’s causes of action and on Plaintiff’s claim for notary fees as an
item of damages.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion.
 
The parties are reminded that this is a tentative opinion
only.  The Court is likely to take this
matter under submission after argument. 
The Court requests Plaintiff to focus at argument on the following question:
where, specifically, in the record is admissible evidence that supports a
disputed question of fact or otherwise defeats summary judgment.  
 
Background
 
This is an employment case. The following facts are taken
from the parties’ separate statements.
 
Plaintiff is an African American woman who was employed with
the Company from late June or early July 2021 until December 10 or 13, 2021.
(Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1, Response to Undisputed Material Fact
(“RUMF”) 1.) Plaintiff was hired as an Escrow Assistant to Escrow Officer
Denise LaBoy. (UMF 3.) Plaintiff’s employment was at-will. (UMF 2.)
 
LaBoy had the authority to interview and select her own
Escrow Assistant, and Ani Barseghyan, the president of the Company, extended a
formal employment offer to Plaintiff at LaBoy’s request. (UMF 5-6.) Barseghyan met
Plaintiff before hiring her and expressly approved Plaintiff’s hiring. (Moss
Dep. at p. 268:13-269:14; UMF 7.)
 
On July 28, 2021, LaBoy quit her position at the Company.
(UMF 8.) As a result, there were no other Escrow Officers at the Company in
need of an assistant. (UMF 9.) LaBoy had been the only Escrow Officer located
in Los Angeles, and the Company’s Escrow Officers in other locations already
had assistants, although Plaintiff performed some tasks for them remotely. (UMF
10, RUMF 10.) This resulted in Plaintiff’s workload being reduced. (UMF 11.)
The parties dispute whether the Company made a concerted effort to find a new
Escrow Assistant so that Plaintiff would have work to do. (UMF 13, RUMF 13.)
 
In order to avoid terminating Plaintiff, on November 8,
2021, Barseghyan had Plaintiff transferred to Samiye Braszel’s department in
customer service for Property I.D. Corporation, which shared an office floor
with the Company. (UMF 14, 16; Braszel Decl. ¶ 8.) Barseghyan ensured that
there was no change in Plaintiff’s compensation or benefits when Plaintiff was
transferred. (UMF 15.) Plaintiff complained that her new office was dirty, and
Braszel explained that the office would be cleaned and sterilized within a day,
just like with every other office transfer. (UMF 17-19.)
 
When Plaintiff was hired, Barseghyan worked in the executive
suite office. (UMF 20.) Plaintiff met her in this office on at least one
occasion after Plaintiff attended a training in Long Beach. (Moss Dep. at p.
287:21-24.) 
 
New employees were assigned parking spaces given whatever
space was available at the time in the lot section assigned to their
department, and Plaintiff was assigned a parking spot. (UMF 24, 27.) Plaintiff requested
a change of parking space – which no other employee had ever requested – next
to a car port, where her car would not fit. (UMF 25-26, RUMF 24.)
 
On a number of occasions, Defendants received reports that
Plaintiff was rude to her colleagues, screamed and yelled profanity in the
office, and was difficult to manage. (UMF 30.) Coworkers frequently lodged
complaints against Plaintiff, and Plaintiff was counseled, verbally and in
writing, on several occasions. (UMF 30-31.) Plaintiff disputes that she was
rude, although she admitted in discovery to having used profanity in the
office. (RUMF 30, Corpuz Reply Decl., Ex. 17 at p. 1.)
 
On at least one occasion, Barseghyan referred to Plaintiff
as ‘Elbow.’ (RUMF 66.) Plaintiff was offended by this term, but admitted in
response to a request for admission that “Elbow” does not have a racially
derogatory connotation. (Corpuz Decl., Ex. 3 at p. 6:11-12.)
 
On September 14, 2021, Plaintiff submitted a complaint of
discrimination to the Company’s Human Resources department (“HR”). (UMF 32.)
The Company retained an independent, third-party firm specializing in
employment investigations, ClarusHR, which it had used before. (UMF 33, RUMF
33.) ClarusHR interviewed nine employees, including Plaintiff and two other African
American employees. (Barseghyan Decl. ¶¶ 25-26, Ex. 14.) In Plaintiff’s
interview, she became agitated and eventually stated that she was not willing
to speak with the investigator, but later continued the interview in response
to an email. (Barseghyan Decl., Ex. 14 at p. 11.) Without being instructed to
do so by anyone at the Company, the investigator asked Plaintiff if she would
be interested in quitting and receiving severance. (Barseghyan Decl. ¶ 27.) 
 
ClarusHR’s investigative report concluded that Plaintiff’s
allegations were not substantiated. (UMF 36.) Plaintiff was advised of the
results and the file was closed. (UMF 37.) 
 
In September 2021, Giovanni Aurichiella, an independent
contractor who worked with the Company, complained to Barseghyan that Plaintiff
frequently yelled at him and had accused him of reprimanding and demeaning her
and being racist, unprofessional, and dishonest after a telephone conversation
where Aurichiella counseled Plaintiff on how to properly handle a customer
request. (UMF 40-43.) Plaintiff denies that this incident happened. (RUMF 43.)
Following this incident, Aurichiella transferred an escrow file that Plaintiff
was working on to Nora Melgoza because he did not believe that he could work
with Plaintiff. (UMF 44.)
 
On another occasion, Plaintiff accused Braszel of
micromanaging her when Braszel asked Plaintiff to let Braszel know if Plaintiff
would be more than ten minutes late to work, which is a standard policy for all
of Braszel’s employees. (UMF 45.)
 
On October 21, 2021, multiple employees told Braszel that
Plaintiff was yelling and screaming profanities in the open lobby area of the
workplace. (UMF 47.) Several employees had come out of their offices and
appeared concerned. (UMF 48.) However, Plaintiff denies that she yelled or
screamed profanities. (RUMF 47.) Braszel counseled Plaintiff regarding this
incident. (UMF 49.)
 
On November 4, 2021, Braszel believed that she heard
Plaintiff yelling and screaming profanities in the open lobby area of the
workplace. (UMF 50-51.) Plaintiff denies that this happened. (RUMF 50-51.)
Braszel left her office to speak with Plaintiff, but Plaintiff had left the
building. (UMF 52.) Braszel reported the alleged incident to Barseghyan,
stating that Plaintiff’s behavior was rude and was very disruptive to other
employees and their clients. (UMF 53.)
 
At least a few times a week from November to December 13,
2021, Eric Torres believed that he could hear Plaintiff screaming and yelling
profanities on telephone calls in her office. (UMF 54.) Plaintiff denies that
this happened. (RUMF 54.) Torres reported the alleged incident to Braszel. (UMF
55.) On at least three occasions, Torres heard Plaintiff shouting on the
telephone that her coworkers were racists and that the Company was racially
profiling her and treating her unfairly because of her race. (UMF 56.) 
 
On December 10, 2021, Braszel, and other employees like
Silvia Harbabikian, believe that they heard Plaintiff screaming and yelling
profanities in the workplace. (UMF 60.) Plaintiff denies that this happened.
(RUMF 60.) Braszel recalls going to the bathroom, where she believes Plaintiff
was yelling and cursing, to see if she was okay, but Plaintiff screamed at
Braszel, “what the fuck do you want?” (UMF 61.) Plaintiff denies having said
this. (RUMF 61.)
 
Braszel and Barseghyan consulted regarding Plaintiff, and
they decided to terminate Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s alleged unprofessional
behavior. (UMF 63.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 8, 2022. The
operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims for (1) discrimination
in violation of FEHA; (2) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (4) wrongful termination;
and (5) whistleblower retaliation and resisting illegal [activity].
 
Defendants moved for summary judgment on March 21, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court has reviewed Defendants’ evidentiary objections,
and sustains the following objections:
 
1 (hearsay); 3 (irrelevant); 4 (irrelevant); 5 (irrelevant);
6 (irrelevant); 7 (lacks foundation, improper character evidence); 8
(irrelevant); 9 (lacks foundation, hearsay); 10 (lacks foundation, hearsay); 11
(speculation); 12 (irrelevant); 13 (lacks foundation; lack of personal
knowledge); 14 (hearsay); 18 (lacks foundation, lack of personal knowledge,
speculation); 20 (sustained in part - claim that coworkers conspired together
to push Plaintiff to quit as part of their ‘diabolical plan’ is speculation);
21 (contradicts prior discovery response); 24 (lack of personal knowledge,
lacks foundation); 26 (lacks foundation); 29 (Plaintiff lists discrepancies in
a declaration that does not exist); 30 (hearsay); 31 (speculation); 33
(sustained in part – statement that coworkers were plotting against Plaintiff
is speculation); 34 (lacks foundation); 38 (lacks foundation, lack of personal
knowledge); 51 (sustained in part – statements that coworkers framed Plaintiff
and conspired against her is speculation); 54 (contradicts prior discovery
response); 55 (contradicts prior discovery response); 56 (sustained in part –
statement that term ‘elbow’ had a racial connotation contradicts prior
discovery response); 57 (contradicts prior discovery response).
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Discrimination – First Claim
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege “that (1) [the
plaintiff] was a member of a protected class, (2) [the plaintiff] was qualified
for the position he sought or was performing competently in the position [they]
held, (3) [the plaintiff] suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Where a plaintiff’s claims of discrimination or retaliation
are based solely on circumstantial evidence, such as here, the claims are
examined under the familiar McDonnell Douglas “burden-shifting” analysis:
first, the plaintiff must establish a prima facie case. (Horsford v. Bd. Of
Trustees of Cal. State Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 375; McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792.) 
 
Once the plaintiff does so, the employer must carry the
burden of showing the employee's action has no merit. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) It may do so with evidence that either: (1) indicates “that one
or more of plaintiff’s prima facie elements is lacking,” or (2) shows some
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken against the employee.
(Caldwell v. Paramount Unified School Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189,
203.) 
 
If defendant meets its burden, the burden then shifts to the
plaintiff to produce substantial evidence that the employer’s showing was
untrue or pretextual by raising at least an inference of discrimination or
retaliation. (Hersant v. California Department of Social Services
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005.) “In short, by applying¿McDonnell
Douglas’s shifting burdens of production in the context of a motion for
summary judgment, ‘the judge [will] determine whether the litigants have
created an issue of fact to be decided by the jury.’ [Citation.]” (Caldwell,
supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 203.) 
 
“[A]n employer need not have good cause to terminate an
at-will employee. The reason for termination need not be wise or correct so
long as it is not grounded on a prohibited bias.” (McGrory v. Applied Signal
Technology, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1524.) “Thus, ‘legitimate’
reasons in this context are reasons that are facially unrelated to prohibited
bias, and which, if true, would thus preclude a finding of discrimination.” (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 358 [citation omitted].)
 
In her discovery responses, Plaintiff identified the
following adverse employment actions that were allegedly discriminatory:
 
1) She was informed
by Denise LaBoy via email on July 28, 2021 (after Moss had already been hired)
that she heard Barseghyan did not want to hire any more African Americans;
2) She was not
allowed to enter Barseghyan’s office, although her Hispanic and Caucasian
colleagues were allowed to enter;
3) Her workload was
reduced after she complained of racial discrimination on September 14, 2021;
4) On or about
October 18, 2021, she was asked by an external investigator to resign and
accept severance, but she declined;
5) On or about
October 26, 2021, an escrow file she was originally assigned to work on was
transferred by Giovanni Aurichiella to Nora Melgoza;
6) On or about November 5, 2021, she was denied entry to the
building;
7) On or about
November 8, 2021, she was transferred to another position with an office she
did not like, and was tasked with alphabetizing and filing invoices;
8) She was micromanaged since she filed her complaint of
racial discrimination;
9) She was terminated on December 13, 2021;
10) She was denied a “proper” parking space;
11) She was delayed in obtaining her health benefits; and
12) She was escorted out of the building after her
termination.
 
(Corpuz Decl., Exs. 2, 5.)
 
            Defendant
has rebutted, or provided non-discriminatory explanations for, each of these
actions. The first action is evidenced only by hearsay through LaBoy, who does
not provide a declaration. Plaintiff admitted in her deposition that she was
permitted to enter Barseghyan’s office. Defendant has provided competent
evidence that Plaintiff’s workload decreased because the only Escrow Officer
quit Plaintiff’s office location. Defendant has similarly provided evidence
that the investigator did not work for the company and therefore did not have
apparent authority to offer Plaintiff severance. When Plaintiff’s key fob did
not work on November 5, 2021, Barseghyan had an assistant resolve the issue
within an hour. (UMF 57-59.) Defendant has provided evidence that Plaintiff’s
transfer to Baszel’s department was so that Plaintiff would have enough work
and could remain employed with Defendants. Braszen’s request that Plaintiff
notify her about any tardiness, which Plaintiff characterizes as
micromanagement, was well within the purview of a supervisor’s duties.
Defendant has provided evidence that Plaintiff was allocated a parking space
through the same process as other employees. Defendants have provided evidence
that the Company uses a third-party broker for managing employee benefits,
which would be responsible for any delay in Plaintiff’s benefits; Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants had ‘a role’ in the process, but does not even state
what that role was. (Moss Decl. ¶ 2(p).) Defendants have presented undisputed
evidence that it is standard procedure to escort an employee out of the
building upon termination. (UMF 65.)
 
            Finally,
there is plentiful evidence to that Defendants had legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reasons to terminate Plaintiff. Although Plaintiff denies
that she ever yelled or screamed at the workplace, the sheer number of
coworkers willing to declare under penalty of perjury that Plaintiff yelled on
various occasions creates a strong appearance that Plaintiff engaged in such
conduct on at least some occasions – and in ay event, Plaintiff has
admitted in discovery responses that she had used profanity in the workplace. Furthermore,
Defendants need not show the actual truth of Plaintiff’s conduct – Defendants
have provided more than adequate evidence that Barseghyan received copious reports
of such conduct. It is enough that the employer honestly believed the reason
for the employee’s termination. (King v. United Parcel Service, Inc.
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 444.)
 
            Plaintiff
also claims that she was unlawfully harassed and referred to as “Elbow.”
Notwithstanding any offense that this might reasonably cause, Plaintiff has
made a judicially binding discovery admission that the term “Elbow” does not
have a racial connotation. (Corpuz Decl., Ex. 3 at p. 6:11-12.)
 
Defendants have provided substantial evidence of
nondiscriminatory reasons for the adverse actions against Plaintiff, and the
burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to show pretext.
 
To rebut a defendant’s showing, a plaintiff cannot “simply
show the employer's decision was wrong, mistaken, or unwise. Rather, the
employee must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies,
incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered legitimate reasons
for its action that a reason able factfinder could rationally find them
unworthy of credence, and hence infer that the employer did not act for the
[asserted] non-discriminatory reasons.” (Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield
Western, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 798, 807 [internal citations and
quotation marks omitted].)
 
            Plaintiff
has not carried her burden. Although a plaintiff need only provide some admissible
evidence to indicate a racially discriminatory motive, Plaintiff has not done
so. Plaintiff provides evidence in the form of inadmissible hearsay wherein
Plaintiff states what other employees told her that fourth parties said about
her, without providing declarations from those employees or any indication that
they will testify at trial. Plaintiff additionally provides conclusory
declarations of her own and from several other employees stating that the
decisions were racially motivated, without providing any factual basis for that
conclusion. Plaintiff has thus failed to create a triable issue of fact
as to whether Defendant’s reasons were pretextual.
 
            The
Court therefore grants summary adjudication on this claim.
 
Retaliation – Second Claim
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
[Fair Employment and Housing Act] FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879,
brackets omitted.) “An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a critical
component of a retaliation claim, requires a substantial adverse change in the
terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v. Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1063, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Here, again, Plaintiff has failed to create a triable issue
of fact. Plaintiff’s evidentiary basis for showing retaliatory intent consists
of (1) the temporal proximity of her transfer and termination to her complaint,
and (2) her conclusory assertions of retaliatory motive. However, Plaintiff’s
transfer was roughly two months after her complaint, and her termination was
three months after her complaint. “But temporal proximity alone is not
sufficient to raise a triable issue as to pretext once the employer has offered
evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the termination. This is
especially so where the employer raised questions about the employee's
performance before [learning about the employee’s protected status], and the
subsequent termination was based on those performance issues.” (Arteaga v.
Brink's, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 353 [citations omitted].) Nor are
Plaintiff’s statements in her declaration sufficient, as they are entirely
conclusory and do not state evidentiary facts supporting the claim that the
adverse actions taken against her were retaliatory. Plaintiff has therefore
failed to show pretext.
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation – Third
Claim
 
The elements of a cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment or retaliation are: (1) actionable discrimination or harassment by
employees or nonemployees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff
(i.e., defendant is the plaintiff’s employer); (3) breach of that duty (i.e.,
failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5) damages to plaintiff.
(Trujillo v. North County Transit
District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289; Bradley v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1612, 1630; Gov. Code, § 12940.)
 
This claim hinges on the same facts alleged in Plaintiff’s
discrimination and retaliation claims. For the same reason that the Court
grants summary adjudication on those claims, the Court finds that there are no
triable issues of fact that Defendants failed to prevent discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation. 
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Wrongful Termination – Fourth Claim
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer
terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially
motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the
plaintiff harm. It is well established that a termination premised on an
employee’s refusal to violate either a statute or an administrative regulation
may support a claim for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical
Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, citation omitted.)
 
As discussed under Plaintiff’s discrimination claim,
Defendants have presented substantial evidence showing a legitimate,
non-discriminatory reason for Plaintiff’s termination, and rebutting the other
adverse actions that Plaintiff alleges. Plaintiff has failed to create a
triable issue of fact as to pretext for the reasons discussed under her FEHA
discrimination and retaliation claims. Because Plaintiff cannot assert a
violation of public policy motivating her termination, her wrongful termination
claim fails.
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication as to this
cause of action.
 
Whistleblower Retaliation – Fifth Claim
 
The Labor Code’s whistleblower provision prohibits an
employer from retaliating against an employee who reports a violation of state
or federal statute or a local, state or federal rule or regulation or who
refuses to participate in any activity that would result in a violation of law.
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5.) To prevail on whistleblower retaliation claim, a
plaintiff must establish that their alleged protected activated was a
contributing factor in the adverse action taken against them. (Lab. Code, §
1102.5.)
 
As discussed under Plaintiff’s discrimination claim,
Defendants have presented substantial evidence showing a legitimate,
non-discriminatory reason for Plaintiff’s termination, and rebutting the other
adverse actions that Plaintiff alleges. Plaintiff has failed to create a
triable issue of fact as to pretext for the reasons discussed under her FEHA
discrimination and retaliation claims.
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication as to this
cause of action.
 
Notary Fees
 
Plaintiff alleges in her discovery responses that she is
entitled to hundreds of dollars in notary fees as an element of her
compensation. The only fact Plaintiff disputes is in her assertion that
Aurichiella, who allegedly offered her a portion of the notary fees, was an
employee of the Company with authority to make that offer. Defendants dispute
that Aurichiella was ever an employee with authority to make the offer, but the
Court need not reach that issue.
 
Plaintiff has not disputed the fact that notary fees are
paid by the parties to the escrow transaction – i.e., the buyer and seller –
directly to the notary, and not to the escrow company. (UMF 75.) That is to
say, the notary fees never passed through the Company, and could not have been
earned by Plaintiff. (UMF 74.) Plaintiff did not bring any notary fees into the
company, and no such fees existed that the Company could have paid her. As an
Escrow Assistant who “can do just as much as an escrow officer …. except for
fund a loan” (Moss Decl. at p. 8:24-27), Plaintiff would know this and could
not have reasonable believed that she could be paid out of the notary fees.
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication on this
issue.
 
Conclusion
 
Because the Court grants summary adjudication as to each
claim, the Court grants summary judgment.