 Case Number:  24STCV03778    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEWEY DEMTRO JR, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DIANA LOPEZ PSYCHO DR.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV03778
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 4, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendant Diana Lopez, PMHNP (sued as “Diana Lopez Psycho
Dr.) (“Defendant”) demurs to the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Dewey Demetro,
Jr.
 
The Court CONTINUES Defendant’s demurrer to July 2, 2024 at
8:30 am. To allow the Attorney General to make a determination as to whether to
remove this case to federal court.  The
Court requests that the Attorney General do so no later than July 1, 2024 so
that the Court can rule on the demurrer if the case remains in state court.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 
Background
 
This case relates to Plaintiff’s attempts to obtain
psychiatric services from Defendant. The following facts are taken from the
allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true for the purposes
of this demurrer.
 
Plaintiff attempted to receive psychiatric services from
Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that he had to wait for 18 months to see
Defendant.
 
When Plaintiff met with Defendant on an unspecified date,
Defendant allegedly stated that she was referring Plaintiff to her supervisor
to handle Plaintiff’s case. Defendant allegedly stated that her supervisor was
not taking any more cases. Plaintiff allegedly stated that Defendant’s
statements did not make sense and stated that Defendant was treating Plaintiff
that way due to racism.
 
Defendant stated that she would be back and returned roughly
ten minutes later. Defendant allegedly told Plaintiff to take a pill three
times a day for 90 days. It is unclear from the Complaint what mediation the
pill was. Plaintiff asked Defendant how she came to the conclusion that
Plaintiff needed to take the pill. Defendant allegedly asked if Plaintiff was
questioning her judgment. Plaintiff allegedly stated that he was questioning
Defendants judgment because Plaintiff believed Defendant to be racist based on
Defendant’s initial decision to pass Plaintiff’s case onto Defendant’s
supervisor.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was trying to kill him with
the pills. Plaintiff alleges that psychology has killed one billion people and
cured zero people. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant would not see him following
that meeting. Plaintiff appears to allege that Defendant has labeled him a drug
addict, although the syntax of the Complaint makes this somewhat unclear.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action against Defendant on February 15, 2024. It is not clear from
the Complaint what causes of action Plaintiff intends to raise. Plaintiff seeks
$8,000,000,000.00.
 
            Defendant
demurred to the Complaint on March 21, 2024. Plaintiff did not file an
opposition. Defendant contends that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction
and that the Complaint is impermissibly vague and fails to state a cause of
action.
 
            On
April 2, 2024, the United States Attorney for the Central District of
California made a limited appearance to state that whether Defendant is deemed
to be an employee of the Public Health Service for the purposes of 42 U.S.C.,
section 233 with respect to Plaintiff’s claims is under consideration.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Subject Matter Jurisdiction
 
Defendant argues that the Court lacks subject matter
jurisdiction on the basis that this action may only be brought against the
United States federal government via the Federal Tort Claims Act (“FTCA”).
 
42 U.S.C., section 233 outlines a statutory scheme whereby
certain entities and their employees are deemed to be employees of the Public
Health Service (“PHS”), and whereby claims against those entities and their
employees for personal injuries arising from medical services must be brought
exclusively against the United States itself. (42 U.S.C., § 233.)
 
Under 42 U.S.C., section 233, subd. (g)(1)(A), an entity shall
be deemed to be an employee of the Public Health Service (“PHS”) when certain
conditions are met. (42 U.S.C., § 233, subd.(g)(1)(A).) A covered entity’s
employees, officers, board members, and contractors are also considered
employees of the PHS for the purposes of this statute. (42 U.S.C., § 233,
subd.(g)(1)(A).) An entity is covered when it is a public or non-profit private
entity receiving Federal funds under 42 U.S.C., section 254b, and is covered
for the duration of a calendar year that begins during a fiscal year for which
a transfer was made under 42 U.S.C., section 233, subd. (k)(3) in order for
payments to be made for judgments against the United States.
 
The remedy against the United States provided by 28 U.S.C.,
section 1346, subd. (b) and 28 U.S.C., section 2672 is the exclusive remedy for
personal injuries resulting from the performance of medical functions, by any
employee of the PHS, including covered entities and their employees when the
PHS employee was acting within the scope of their employment. (42 U.S.C., §
233, subd. (g)(1)(A); 42 U.S.C., § 233, subd. (a).) The above remedy against
the United States is exclusive of claims under the same subject matter against
the employee whose act or omission gave rise to the claim. (42 U.S.C., § 233,
subd. (a).) The federal district courts have exclusive jurisdiction over such a
claim. (28 U.S.C., section 1346, subd. (b)(1).)
 
“Upon a certification by the Attorney General that the
defendant was acting in the scope of his employment at the time of the incident
out of which the suit arose, any such civil action or proceeding commenced in a
State court shall be removed without bond at any time before trial by the
Attorney General to the district court of the United States of the district and
division embracing the place wherein it is pending and the proceeding deemed a
tort action brought against the United States under the provisions of Title 28
and all references thereto.” (42 U.S.C., § 233, subd. (c).)
 
The treatment at issue in this case took place at St.
Anthony Medical Center (“St. Anthony”). (Rubaum Decl. ¶ 3.) St. Anthony is a
Federally Qualified Health Center under 42 U.S.C., section 233.
 
            The
Attorney General has not issued a notice of removal to federal court at this
time. As discussed above, the United States Attorney for the Central District
of California has informed the Court that whether Defendant is deemed to be an
employee of the Public Health Service for the purposes of 42 U.S.C., section
233 with respect to Plaintiff’s claims is under consideration. 
 
Because section 233(g)(1)(A) is a jurisdictional bar, the
Court continues Defendant’s demurrer in this matter pending the Attorney
General’s determination as to whether to remove this case to federal court. 