 Case Number:  24STCV01303    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOCELYN MUNOZ, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
STARBUCKS CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV01303
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 4, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendants Starbucks Corporation and Starbucks LLC
(collectively, “Starbucks”) move for an order compelling Plaintiff Jocelyn
Munoz (“Plaintiff”) to submit her claims against Starbucks to binding
arbitration and staying this action pending arbitration.
 
The Court tentatively DENIES Starbucks’ motion.
 
The Court solicits argument about any case law that examines
whether the full range of harassment as defined by California Government 
Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(4)(C), is subject to the Ending the
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021.  The Court is particularly interested in any
case law examining the issue.
 
Background
 
This is an employment case.
 
Plaintiff was employed by Starbucks beginning in February
2023 and ending on July 13, 2023. Starbucks is a nationwide coffee chain.
 
Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement with Starbucks on
February 15, 2023 (the “Arbitration Agreement”). (Opposition at p. 5:6-8.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Starbucks and Defendant Sarah Chavez
harassed Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s sex, gender, disability, and pregnancy.
(Complaint at p. 4:14-18.) Plaintiff alleges that she repeatedly complained
about harassment and retaliation. Plaintiff alleges that she was constructively
terminated on July 13, 2023.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on January 18, 2024, raising
claims for (1) wrongful termination in violation of public policies; (2)
medical leave retaliation; (3) medical leave discrimination; (4) paid sick
leave discrimination; (5) paid sick leave retaliation; (6) denial of pregnancy
leave; (7) gender and pregnancy discrimination; (8) retaliation for requesting
and using accommodations for disabilities; (9) failure to engage in a timely
good faith interactive process to determine accommodations for disability; (10)
failure to reasonably accommodate disabilities; (11) disability discrimination;
(12) gender and pregnancy harassment; (13) harassment based on sex/gender; (14)
harassment based on disability; (15) retaliation for opposing violations of
FEHA; (16) failure to prevent and stop harassment, discrimination, and
retaliation; and (17) whistleblower retaliation.
 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice
of public records.
 
Discussion
 
The parties agree that Plaintiff signed an arbitration
agreement with Starbucks.
 
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is voided by
the Ending the Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act
of 2021, 9 U.S.C., section 402 (“EFAA”), which is now part of the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”).
 
“Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, at the
election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute or sexual assault dispute … no predispute arbitration agreement or
predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a
case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the
sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C., § 402,
subd. (a).)
 
“An issue as to whether this chapter applies with respect to
a dispute shall be determined under Federal law. The applicability of this
chapter to an agreement to arbitrate and the validity and enforceability of an
agreement to which this chapter applies shall be determined by a court, rather
than an arbitrator … irrespective of whether the agreement purports to delegate
such determinations to an arbitrator.” (9 U.S.C., § 402, subd. (b).)
 
Under FEHA, it is
prohibited “[f]or an employer … because of sex, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, age, sexual orientation, [or] reproductive health decisionmaking …
to harass an employee[.]” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).)
 
The parties agree
that Plaintiff’s gender and sex harassment claims are based on inappropriate
comments made about her pregnancy allegedly made by Defendant Sarah Chavez.
Plaintiff alleges that Chavez made comments about Plaintiff’s pregnancy
symptoms, asked if Plaintiff intended to keep the baby, expressed frustration
when Plaintiff said she would keep the baby, expressed frustration that
Plaintiff required time off because of pregnancy symptoms, and indicated that
she did not know how to support Plaintiff during Plaintiff’s pregnancy.
 
Starbucks argues
that “[s]ex discrimination is discriminating against someone because of his or
her sex, while sexual harassment is unwelcome sexual advances or other verbal
or physical contact of a sexual nature.” (Friel v. Mnuchin (E.D. Pa.
2020) 474 F.Supp.3d 673, 692.) Starbucks argues that “none of the allegations
supporting Plaintiff’s sex/gender harassment claim are sexual in nature. In
that regard, Plaintiff does not allege Chavez’s actions were sexually
motivated, that Chavez or anyone else engaged in unwelcomed sexual advances, or
that Plaintiff was subjected to a sexual assault. Accordingly, Plaintiff cannot
demonstrate that her allegations constitute the type of ‘sexual harassment’
claims that the EFAA was intended to protect.” (Reply at p. 4:9-14.) 
 
“For purposes of
this subdivision, ‘harassment’ because of sex includes sexual harassment,
gender harassment, and harassment based on pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. Sexually harassing conduct need not be motivated by sexual
desire.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(4)(C).)
 
Whether Chavez’s alleged
comments were sexually motivated is irrelevant. Plaintiff alleges that Chavez
harassed her because of reproductive decisionmaking and pregnancy status, which
necessarily pertains to reproductive activity. The alleged comments therefore
constitute harassment based on sex and sexual harassment.
 
Friel, cited by Starbucks and quoted above,
interpreted the meaning of sexual harassment under Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act, and not FEHA. (Friel, supra, 474 F.Supp.3d 673, 692.) Although the
issue of whether the EFAA applies is decided under federal law (9
U.S.C., § 402, subd. (b)), the EFAA explicitly incorporates state law when
determining what constitutes a sexual harassment dispute. (9 U.S.C., § 402,
subd. (a).)
 
 Starbucks argues that the EFAA only prevents
arbitration of the covered claims, and does not apply to the entire case. The
act’s plain language prevents the enforcement of arbitration agreements “with
respect to a case” that “relates to [a] sexual assault dispute or
[a] sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C., § 402, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)
Thus, even if a plaintiff brings both covered and non-covered claims in the
same case, the act prevents the mandatory arbitration of all of the plaintiff’s
claims. While Starbucks points to legislative materials that it argues show an
intent to limit the EFAA’s protection to claims relating to sexual
assault or harassment, it is still the final language of the statute that
controls – and the final language that Congress approved extends coverage to
the entire case.
 
Starbucks argues
that the sex/gender harassment claim can be severed from the arbitration
agreement. While severability is generally the law regarding arbitration
agreements, the EFAA’s language covering an entire case relating to a sexual
harassment dispute forbids severance in this situation. The only harassment
that Plaintiff alleges is by Chavez, relating to her pregnancy. The only
retaliation she alleges is based on her reports of Chavez’s conduct.
Plaintiff’s alleged constructive termination is based on Starbuck’s alleged
lack of receptivity to Plaintiff’s complaints about Chavez’s conduct. The
entire case is thus intertwined with Plaintiff’s sex harassment claims.
Severance is not proper here.
 
The Court therefore
denies Starbucks’ motion.
 
 