  Case Number:  23STCV20554    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
ce-gh urbanite fund
  2, llc,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DIGITALBRIDGE GROUP, INC.; DIGITALBRIDGE OPERATING
  COMPANY, LLC; CNI CENTURY PLAZA MM, LLC; CDCF IV CENTURY MEZZ, LLC, et al.
                        Defendants


 
  Case No.: 
  23STCV20554
 
  Hearing Date:  November 15, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
application for an
  order permitting andrew R. Kurland and sheron korpus to appear as counsel pro
  hac vice
 
 



 
Andrew R. Kurland (“Kurland”) and
Sheron Korpus (“Korpus”)
each apply to appear as counsel pro hac
vice for Defendants DigitalBridge Group, Inc., DigitalBridge
Operating Company, LLC, CNI Century Plaza MM, LLC, and CDCF IV Century Mezz,
LLC.  The applications are unopposed. 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40,
attorneys licensed and in good standing in other states may, upon the
California court’s approval, appear as counsel pro hac vice in a pending case if an active member of the state bar
is associated as attorney of record. 
(CRC 9.40(a).)  
Kurland is an active member,
in good standing, of the State Bar of New York. 
(Kurland Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.)  Kurland
is also admitted to practice in and is in good standing with the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department since
2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Second Circuit since 2016, the U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York since 2010, the U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York since 2010, and the U.S. District Court, Western
District of New York since 2010. 
(Kurland Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)  In
addition, Kurland states that he resides in Brooklyn, New York and has an
office in New York, New York.  (Kurland
Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)  Kurland states that, within
the last two years, he has only applied to appear pro hac vice in the lead
action CE-GH Urbanite Fund 2, LLC v. David Belford et al., No.
22STCV20842, which this department granted between the filing of the instant
application and the hearing date.  (Kurland
Decl. ¶ 8.)  Thus, Kurland satisfies
the eligibility requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Korpus is an active member, in good standing, of the State of New
York.  (Korpus Decl. ¶ 5.) 
Korpus is
also admitted to practice in and is in good standing with the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department since 1997,
the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York since 1997, the U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York since 1997, the U.S. Court of
Appeals, Second Circuit since 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Third Circuit
since 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit since 1997, the U.S.
Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit since 2011, and the United
States Supreme Court since 2006.  (Korpus Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) 
In addition, Korpus resides
in New York, New York and has an office in New York, New York.  (Korpus
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  Within
the last two years, Korpus has only applied to appear pro hac vice in
the lead action CE-GH Urbanite Fund 2, LLC v. David Belford et al., No.
22STCV20842, which this department granted. (Korpus Decl. ¶ 8.)  Thus, Korpus satisfies the eligibility
requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Kurland’s and Korpus’s applications successfully address
all six content requirements outlined in CRC 9.40(d).  Specifically, Kurland and Korpus provide in their respective applications: (1) their
residence and office address (Kurland Decl. ¶¶ 3-4; Korpus Decl. ¶¶ 3-4); (2) the
courts to which Kurland and
Korpus have been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission (Kurland Decl. ¶ 6; Korpus Decl. ¶ 6); (3) that Kurland and Korpus are members in good standing in those courts (Kurland Decl. ¶ 7; Korpus Decl. ¶ 7); (4) that they are
not currently suspended or disbarred in any court (Kurland Decl. ¶ 7; Korpus Decl. ¶ 7); (5) the title of
each court and cause in which the applicants have filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, and whether or not it was granted if any (Kurland Decl. ¶ 8; Korpus Decl. ¶ 8); and (6) the name,
address, and telephone number of an active member, Daniel A. Saunders of the
State Bar of California who is the current counsel of record for Defendants DigitalBridge Group, Inc., DigitalBridge
Operating Company, LLC, CNI Century Plaza MM, LLC, and CDCF IV Century Mezz,
LLC.  (Kurland Decl. ¶ 9; Korpus
Decl. ¶ 9).
Furthermore, Kurland and Korpus each
demonstrate that they meet the requirement of CRC 9.40(c)(1). That rule
provides: “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service . . . of a copy of the
application and of the notice on all parties who have appeared in the cause and
on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”  (Kurland Decl. ¶ 12; Korpus Decl. ¶ 12.)
 


 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The applications of Andrew
R. Kurland and Sheron Korpus to
appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants
DigitalBridge Group, Inc., DigitalBridge Operating Company, LLC, CNI Century
Plaza MM, LLC, and CDCF IV Century Mezz, LLC are
GRANTED.
Moving
Parties are to
give notice and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: November ___, 2023                                              ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court