  Case Number:  19STCV30239    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  74 The
Wonderful Company v. Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, et
al.
Defendant Anthem Blue Cross Life and
Health Insurance Company’s Motion to Seal
 
BACKGROUND  
This
action arises out of a contract dispute. On August 26, 2024, Anthem filed this
motion to seal portions of TWC’s opposition to defendant LPCH’s Motion for
Summary Judgement. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Unless confidentiality is required
by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) Consequently, pleadings, motions, evidence, and
other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties;
rather, a prior court order is necessary. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subd. (a).)  
 
The governing rule here is Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d) which states “that the court may order that a
record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that
establish:  

There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
     right of public access to the record; 


The overriding interest supports sealing the
     record; 


A substantial probability exists that the overriding
     interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 


The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 


No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
     overriding interest.” 

If the court fails to make the
required findings, the order is deficient and cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
Sanctions may be imposed for overboard requests to seal. (Id. at p.
500.)  
 
DISCUSSION
              California
law recognizes a constitutional right of access to court proceedings and court
documents because the public has an interest in observing and assessing the
performance of the judicial system.  (In
Re Marriage of Tamir (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 1068, 1078; see also McNair
v. NCAA (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 25, 31.) 
            The
first step to seal records within a civil case requires the movant to identify an
interest that overcomes the right of public access.  Anthem identifies three categories of
confidential information: (1) Sensitive financial information and proprietary
business information related to Anthem’s services agreement with Plaintiff; (2)
Sensitive financial information related to the Anthem CME Agreement with LPCH;
and (3) Personally identifiable health information of minors. 
With
respect to the first and second category of financial information and
proprietary business information, Anthem argues that it will suffer prejudice
if the information from the Administrative Services Agreement and the CME were
revealed because they contain sensitive business and financial
information.  The Court finds that
Defendant’s privacy interest in confidential and proprietary business,
including sensitive financial information, overrides the public right of
access.  Anthem has a right to seal
documents containing business procedures and other proprietary
information.  (McGaun v. Endovascular
Technologies, Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988-989.) 
With
respect to the third category of information, personally identifiable health
information of non-party minors, Anthem argues that personal health information
is protected by an overriding interest in privacy.  The Court finds that the minor patients’
interest in personal health information overrides public right of access.  Anthem has a right to seal documents
containing sensitive medical information. 
(Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th 838, 850.)
The
proposed sealing includes portions of the Exhibits in the Ashely Milnes and
Georgann Edford’s Declarations, portions of Georgann’s Declaration, portions of
TWC’s separate statement, portions of TWC’s evidentiary objections, and
portions of TWC’s evidence in support of the Opposition of LPCH’s Motion for
Summary Judgement.  These designations
are narrowly tailored to cover information regarding the Administrative
Services Agreement, CME agreement, and the personally identifiable information
of non-party minors.  The court agrees
that no less restrictive means exists.  
Therefore,
the motion is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
             The court grants Defendant’s motion to seal.
            The
court will sign without modification the proposed sealing order filed on August
26, 2024.
            Defendant
shall give notice.