  Case Number:  21STCV39278    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 15, 2024                         TRIAL DATE: September 17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Loretta L. Tobin v. Ernst & Haas Management Co., Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV39278
 
            
 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Solimar Homeowner’s Association
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Loretta
L. Tobin
 
CASE
HISTORY:

10/05/21:
     Complaint filed.
12/29/21:
     Linda J. Vitz substituted in for Doe Defendant #1
08/17/23:
     Solimar Homeowners Association substituted in for Doe Defendant #2.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability defect action. Plaintiff
leased an apartment from Defendants that she alleges contained toxic mold. 
 
Defendant Solimar Homeowner’s
Association demurs to the Complaint and moves to strike the Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Solimar Homeowner’s
Association’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            Defendant
Solimar Homeowner’s Association demurs to the Complaint in its entirety. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Andrew
Scoble states that the parties met and conferred telephonically on November 6,
2023, and that Plaintiff’s counsel stated he intended to amend the Complaint
but required leave of court to do so. (Declaration of Andrew D. Scoble ISO
Demurrer ¶ 3.) The declaration thereafter states that the parties were unable
to reach an agreement resolving these objections but provides no explanation
for how that conclusion was reached. (Id.) The Court therefore does not
find this declaration sufficient to satisfy Defendant’s statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. Nevertheless, the Court will address the demurrer on its merits. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) a Grant Deed conveying
ownership of Lot 6 of Tract No. 13628, commonly known as 7683 Yorktown Avenue,
Huntington Beach, the Subject Property, to Linda J. Vitz recorded on May 8,
2000 in the Orange County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20000239290; (2)
a Grant Deed conveying Lot 10 of the same parcel to Solimar recorded on August 8,
1990 as Instrument No. 90-418891; (3) the Tract Map for Tract No. 13628
recorded on June 28, 1989 as Instrument No. 89-342013; and (4) the Grant Deed
conveying Lot 6 from Linda J. Vitz to Thomas A. Brown recorded on November 15,
2021 as Instrument No. 2021000700361. 
            Defendant’s
requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c)
(official acts) and (h) (matters not reasonably subject to dispute and capable
of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy). 
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
 
            Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing on the grounds that Plaintiff did not adequately allege
the details of the underlying contract. Defendant further argues that it is not
the owner of the subject property as a matter of law, and therefore cannot be
liable for claims arising out of the rental agreement. 
 
            The Court
addressed the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s contract allegations in its May 11,
2022 ruling on the demurrer brought by the other Defendants in this action. In
that ruling, the Court found that the Complaint did not adequately set forth
the terms of the underlying lease agreement, and therefore could not support a
claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (May
11, 2022 Minute Order p.5.) As the Complaint has not been amended, that
decision stands as the ruling of the Court. Moreover, Plaintiff’s attempt to
introduce the putative lease agreement as an exhibit in her opposition is unavailing.
Even if the Court considered this extrinsic evidence, the document does not
contain a single reference to a homeowner’s association in general or to
Defendant Solimar in particular. (See Plaintiff’s Exh. A.) Plaintiff therefore
cannot maintain a claim for breach of a lease agreement or any of the
consequential implied covenants against this Defendant. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment
 
            Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment on the grounds that Plaintiff did not state facts sufficient to
support a claim. 
 
            “[E]very
lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment.” (Erlach v.
Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299 (citing Civ.
Code, § 1927).) “Minor inconveniences and annoyances are not actionable
breaches of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.” (Andrews v. Mobile
Aire Estates¿(2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.) “To be actionable, the
[landlord’s] act or omission must substantially interfere with a [tenant’s]
right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the
tenancy.” (Id.) “The tenant need not vacate the property before bringing
an action for breach of the¿covenant of quiet enjoyment.” (Marchese v.
Standard Realty & Dev.¿Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 142, 148.)
 
            Defendant
argues that it cannot be liable for a breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment
because it did not own the subject property and therefore was not a party to
the lease agreement as a matter of law. Defendant offers a set of publicly
recorded grant deeds, which are subject to judicial notice, to demonstrate that
although Solimar owns a neighboring parcel, it does not own the subject
property, which belonged first to Linda J. Vitz, and then to Thomas A. Brown.
(RJN Exhs. 1, 2, 4.) Further, as stated above, the putative lease agreement
offered by Plaintiff shows that Defendant Solimar is not a party to that
agreement. 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability
 
            Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of
habitability for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. For the reasons stated above, Defendant’s Demurrer to the third cause
of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Negligent Premises Liability
 
            Defendant
demurs to the fourth cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot state
facts constituting a cause of action against this Defendant.
 
            To state a
claim for premises liability, a plaintiff must plead a duty arising from the
defendant’s ownership or control of the premises, a breach of that duty, and
resultant injury. (See Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1159.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that the Complaint is silent as to any duties owed by Defendant as a
homeowner’s association in general, and, further, that Defendant did not own
the subject property and had no duties arising from ownership or management of
the property. (See RJN Exhs. 1-2, 4.) Plaintiff offers no response beyond a
conclusory assertion that Defendant Solimar owed a duty of care to Plaintiff.
The Court is not persuaded. The judicially noticeable records establish that
Defendant Solimar did not own the subject property, and the Complaint pleads no
facts which would establish that the homeowner’s association had any control
over the property, as opposed to the owner or the property manager, who are
separately named. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Failure to Disclose
 
            Defendant
demurs to this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The parties agree that this cause of action
survives or falls with the fourth cause of action. Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Dangerous
Conditions
 
            Defendant
demurs to this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The parties agree that this cause of action
survives or falls with the fourth cause of action. Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Defendant
demurs to this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are:  
‘“(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress;  (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. …” Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation
omitted.) “It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It
must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant
is aware.” 
 
(Catsouras v. Department of California Highway Patrol (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-875.) The defendant’s conduct must be “directed
primarily” at the plaintiffs, “calculated to cause them severe emotional
distress,” or “done with knowledge of their presence and of a substantial
certainty that they would suffer severe emotional injury.” (Christensen v.
Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 906.) 
 
Defendant contends that this cause
of action fails because it is premised on the concealment of and failure to
remediate toxic mold on the subject property, which, as discussed above, Defendant
Solimar did not own or control. Thus, Defendant argues, even if true, its
conduct does not rise to the level of “extreme and outrageous” contemplated by
this cause of action.  Plaintiff asserts
that this cause of action is adequately pled, but merely restates the general
allegations of the Complaint without referencing any specific conduct by
Solimar. As the judicially noticed matter establishes that Defendant Solimar
did not own the subject property, the Court concurs that this cause of action
is fatally deficient.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer
to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
            Defendant
demurs to this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The parties agree that this cause of action
survives or falls with the fourth and seventh causes of action. Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Defendant
demurs to the ninth cause of action for breach of contract for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            For the
reasons stated above with respect to the first cause of action, Defendant’s
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Tenth Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            Defendant
demurs to the tenth cause of action for fraud for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
            “The
elements of fraud that will lead to a tort action are: (a) misrepresentation;
(b) knowledge of falsity; (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) Every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant[s]
to understand fully the nature of the charge made. (Stansfield v. Starkey
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Ibid.) “[G]eneral and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.)
 
            As the
Court stated in its May 11, 2022 ruling:
 
Here, the Complaint
does not identify specific statements made by Defendants, who made them, how
they were made, when they were made, or by what means they were tendered.
Instead, the Complaint makes general allegations that the Defendants made
repeated and constant misrepresentations concerning the source of mold, its
effects, and their remediation efforts. (Complaint ¶ 185.) The Complaint
provides no specifics or examples of any misrepresentations, or any of the
information required by Stansfield. Under the particularity requirement
for fraud actions, these allegations are not sufficient. Plaintiff has failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
(May 11, 2022 Minute Order p.8.) Because the Complaint has
not been amended, the allegations remain deficient. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Eleventh Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
            Defendant
demurs to the eleventh cause of action for negligent misrepresentation for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As the
parties agree this cause of action survives or fails with the tenth cause of
action, Defendant’s Demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Complaint in its entirety on the grounds that it is uncertain.
 
Demurrers¿for uncertainty are disfavored,
because discovery can be used for clarification, and they apply only where
defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated.¿(Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822; Khoury v. Maly's of Cal.,
Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) If the complaint is sufficiently
comprehensible that Defendant can reasonably respond, the complaint is not
uncertain. (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 841, 848 n.3.)  
 
            Defendant
argues that the Complaint is uncertain because it contains no allegations
specific to Solimar. This is an argument for the failure to allege sufficient
facts, not uncertainty. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiff
does not demonstrate how the Complaint might be amended to cure the deficiencies
identified by Solimar’s demurrer. Moreover, with respect to the contract claims
and premises liability claims, the judicially noticed facts establish that
Solimar cannot be liable on Plaintiff’s contract claims or premises claims
because it did not own or control the subject property. Further, what few facts
are pled as to the remaining tort claims demonstrate that those claims are
premised on the ownership, control, and management of the property. The Court
therefore finds that leave to amend is not appropriate in this instance.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike Complaint
 
            As the
Court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer in its entirety without leave to
amend, Defendant’s corresponding Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
            
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant Solimar
Homeowner’s Association’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT. 
 
Moving party to give notice, unless
waived.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:   May 15, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at  Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the
email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling
the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on
the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the
hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative,
and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.


