 Case Number:  23STCV21465    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 15, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Omar Penagos Lozada v. Miguel Victoria,
et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21465            
 
DEMURRER
TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Miguel Victoria and Alexandria Mujica 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 5/10/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/07/23: Complaint filed.
·        
09/14/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a quiet title action. Plaintiff seeks to rescind a trustee sale
that he alleges was improperly executed against his home. 
 
Defendants Miguel Victoria and Alexandria
Mujica demur to the first amended complaint.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants
Miguel Victoria and Alexandria Mujica’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Miguel Victoria and Alexandria
Mujica demur to the first amended complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
Defendants filed a Declaration on
Optional Judicial Council Form CIV-140 stating that Plaintiff failed to respond
to the meet-and-confer request as of October 19, 2023. (Declaration of
Demurring Party ¶ 2b.) Defendants have therefore satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligation. 
 
Misjoinder of Parties
 
            Defendants
first demur to the Complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30(d)
for failure to join an indispensable party. An “indispensable party” is a party
who “is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the
court of jurisdiction over the subject matter,” and whom “(1) in his absence
complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims
an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the
disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair
or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons
already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or
otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 389.) 
 
            As
Defendants correctly state, each of the four causes of action asserted in the
First Amended Complaint seeks to set aside the trustee sale and restore title
to Plaintiff. Any challenge to the ownership of the property must name as a
defendant the current owner whose interest is challenged. (See Hardie v.
Chew Fish Yuen (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 301, 305-307.) The First Amended
Complaint freely states that the person who purchased the subject property is
an individual named Benjamin Dao, who is not a named party. (Complaint ¶¶
35-37.) The Court therefore concurs with Defendants that Plaintiff has failed
to join an indispensable party. For this reason alone, the First Amended
Complaint is deficient.
 
First Cause of Action: Set Aside Trustee Sale
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action to set aside the trustee sale for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            The first
cause of action claims that the trustee sale must be set aside for “procedural
irregularities,” specifically for violation of Civil Code section 2923.5. (FAC ¶¶
42-43, 50.) Section 2923.5 establishes the procedure under which a mortgage
servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized agent may record a
notice of default, and specifically requires that the borrower be contacted
before recording the notice to “assess the household’s financial situations and
explore options for the borrower to avoid foreclosure.” (Civ. Code §
2923.5(a)(2).) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to do so. (FAC ¶ 43.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that this cause of action is deficient because Plaintiff cannot challenge
the validity of a sale in favor of a bona fide purchaser. This argument draws
the improper inference that the purchaser was, in fact, a bona fide purchaser.
However, the Court must draw the opposite inference in the context of a demurrer
since that inference favors the non-demurring party. 
 
            Defendants
also argue that the first cause of action is deficient because Plaintiff does
not allege that he tendered full payment of the debt. As stated by the Court of
Appeal in Arnolds Management Corp. v. Eischen, “[i]t is settled that an
action to set aside a trustee’s sale for irregularities in sale notice
or procedure should be accompanied by an offer to pay the full amount of the
debt for which the property was security.” (Arnolds Mgmt. Corp. v. Eischen
(1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 575, 578.) However, an offer of tender is not required
for an action under section 2923.5 based on an improper notice of default.
(Mabry v. Superior Court (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 208, 225-226.) This
argument is therefore without merit. 
 
            The Court
therefore finds that the first cause of action is not deficient for failure to
allege sufficient facts, notwithstanding the misjoinder of parties. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED for misjoinder
of parties only. 
 
//
 
//
Second Cause of Action: Quiet Title
 
            Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a claim. A claim for quiet title must name all persons, known or
unknown, claiming an interest in the subject property. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
762.010; 762.020.) As discussed above, Plaintiff has not named the owner of the
property. In addition, Defendants assert without explanation or citation to the
pleadings that Plaintiff cannot allege that any of the named Defendants have
adverse claims to title. Conclusory assertions are not a basis to challenge a cause
of action, notwithstanding the other deficiencies in the First Amended
Complaint. However, the Court agrees that the second cause of action fails to
name one of the parties with an ownership interest in the property and is
therefore defective. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Third Cause of Action: Cancellation of Instrument
 
            Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for cancellation of instrument for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            Civil Code
3412 provides that “[a] written instrument, in respect to which there is a
reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to
a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so
adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.” (Civ. Code § 3412.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that this cause of action is inadequately pled because the First
Amended Complaint does not set forth any basis for why the Deed of Trust,
Notice of Default, or Notice of Trustee’s Sale are void or voidable, and does
not allege a reasonable apprehension of serious injury. To the contrary,
Plaintiff contends that the Notice of Default did not comply with Civil Code
section 2923.5. (See FAC ¶ 43.) Moreover, the contention that Plaintiff does
not allege a reasonable apprehension of serious injury is specious. Plaintiff
alleges that his home was foreclosed upon. (FAC ¶¶ 12-14.) The Court therefore
declines to find that this cause of action is inadequately pled in this
respect.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED for misjoinder
of parties only.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Recission
 
            Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for recission for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            The fourth
cause of action for recission is based on the claim that Defendants were
unlicensed lenders. (FAC ¶ 64.) However, as Defendants argue, a loan by an unlicensed
lender is not void but is merely subject to usury laws. (See Creative
Ventures LLC v. Jim Ward & Associates (2010) 195 Cal.App.4th 1430, 1441-42.)
The remedy for a usurious loan is the recovery of the usurious interest, plus
statutory treble damages. (Civ. Code § 1916-3(a); Stock v. Meek (1950)
35 Cal.2d 809, 817.) The Court is therefore persuaded that the fourth cause of
action is defective because it does not state a legal basis for recission of
the trustee sale. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not responded to the Demurrer and has not shown how the Complaint
might be amended. However, as the deficiencies arise from the failure to name
indispensable parties and the absence of detail, the Court finds good cause to
permit leave to amend in this instance. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants Miguel Victoria and Alexandria Mujica’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 15, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 