 Case Number:  24STCV07682    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  11 Cruz-Pulido (24STCV07682)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           11/15/24
 
Time:                          11:00
am
 
Moving Party:           Central Valley Meat Co., Inc.
(“CVMC”), et al. (collectively “Defendants”)
 
Opposing Party:        Jonathan Cruz-Pulido (“Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11
 
Judge:                         David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is denied.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff used to work for CVMC. 
He alleges that CVMC subjected him and other current and former
employees to numerous wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Defendants move to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff worked for CVMC from
2016 to March 2018 and was rehired by CVMC on August 6, 2018.  (See Lacy Decl., ¶ 4.)  During the onboarding process on August 6th,
Defendants claim Plaintiff e-signed CVMC’s arbitration agreement.  (See ibid.)
 
The agreement is attached to the
declaration of CVMC’s director of human resources, Juana Lacy, at exhibit
A.  It:
 
* states that Plaintiff and CVMC
agree to arbitrate their disputes, claims, and controversies against each other
(see id. at Ex. A, § 1);
 
* defines covered and uncovered
claims (see id. at Ex. A, § 2);
 
* permits both sides to seek
injunctive relief in court (see id. at Ex. A, § 3);
 
* requires the arbitration to be
conducted pursuant to the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) employment
rules (see id. at Ex. A, § 4);
 
* waives class and arbitration
claims (see id. at Ex. A, § 5);
 
* calls for CVMC to pay all
arbitration fees and costs (see id. at Ex. A, § 6);
 
* includes confidentiality and
severability sections (see id. at Ex. A, §§ 7, 8);
 
* provides that the arbitration
agreement “shall survive the employer-employee relationship” (id. at Ex. A, §
9);
 
* allows any arbitration award to
be enforced in court (see id. at Ex. A, § 10);
 
* states that the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies (see ibid.); and, 
 
* 
just above the signature line, emphasizes:
 
I UNDERSTAND THAT
THIS AGREEMENT IS EFFECTIVE THE DATE MY EMPLOYMENT COMMENCES.  I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS AGREEMENT
RESTRICTS MY RIGHT TO SUE CENTRAL VALLEY AND APPLIES TO ANY CLAIM, INCLUDING
THOSE THAT OCCURRED BEFORE THE DATE I SIGN BELOW.  I FURTHER UNDERSTAND THAT THIS AGREEMENT
CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF MY RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL.
 
I HAVE READ THE
AGREEMENT ABOVE CAREFULLY AND HAVE BEEN GIVEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER THE
TERMS AND THEIR EFFECT ON ME AND MY RIGHTS. 
BY MY SIGNATURE BELOW, I KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY AGREE TO BE BOUND BY
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. 
BY MY SIGNATURE BELOW, I ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE BEEN GIVEN THE
OPTON TO OBTAIN A COPY OF THE AAA EMPLOYMENT ARBITRATION RULES AND MEDIATION
PROCEDURES.
 
(Id. at Ex. A, p. 2, emphasis in
original.)
 
The Court finds Defendants’
burden satisfied because facts and terms like these suffice to establish an
agreement to arbitrate, and assent is effectively uncontested.[1]
 
Unconscionability and
Enforcement
 
Unconscionability is a contract defense.  (See Torrecillas v. Fitness International,
LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492.)  Under the FAA, unconscionability can be
utilized to “invalidate [an] arbitration agreement[].”  (Ibid.) 
Courts apply state law to test whether the agreement is
unconscionable.  (See, e.g., Lagatree
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
1105, 1119.)
 
“[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a substantive
element, the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, internal quotation marks
omitted.)  “The prevailing view is that
[procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order
for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
Procedural Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff contends the agreement is a contract of adhesion.  (See Opposition ,pp. 3-4.)
 
“[A] predispute arbitration agreement is
not invalid merely because it is imposed as a condition of employment.”  (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton &
Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1122–1123.)  Stated another way, “the mandatory nature of
an arbitration agreement does not, by itself, render the agreement
unenforceable.”  (Ibid.; see also Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion contract is involved does not
per se render the arbitration clause unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts are ‘an inevitable
fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer alike.’”], emphasis in
original.)
 
At most, the evidence demonstrates a low degree of procedural
unconscionability.  (See Cruz-Pulido
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 [declaring that Plaintiff does not “understand legal jargon” and
that Lacy “did not explain” the agreement to him]; cf. Lacy Decl., Ex. A, p. 2
[stating: “I HAVE READ THE AGREEMENT ABOVE CAREFULLY AND HAVE BEEN GIVEN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER THE TERMS AND THEIR EFFECT ON ME AND MY RIGHTS”].)
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff claims the agreement is
overbroad scope-wise and duration-wise and lacks mutuality as to injunctive
relief.  In addition, he challenges the
class-waiver and confidentiality sections. 
(See Opposition, pp. 4-7.)
 
Scope
and Duration
 
Citing Cook v. University of Southern
California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312, Plaintiff asserts that
the agreement covers all claims, not just employment-related claims (see id. at
pp. 4-5), and survives Plaintiff’s employment. 
(See id. at p. 5.)
 
Defendants contend the FAA preempts Cook.  (See Reply, pp. 3-4 [quoting Preston v.
Ferrer (2008) 552 U.S. 346, 356].)
 
The Court disagrees.  Defendants only devote one paragraph to the
preemption argument; the argument is conclusory.  (See ibid.) 
Moreover, Cook has been followed in an FAA case (see Sandler v.
Modernizing Medicine, Inc. (S.D. Cal. Oct. 9, 2024, No. 24-cv-00812-AJB-BJC) 2024 WL
4469217, at *2), and, even when the FAA governs,
unconscionability is determined through application of state law.  (See Lagatree, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at 1119;
see also Dr.’s Assocs, Inc. v. Casarotto (1996) 517 U.S. 681, 687; Sandler,
supra, 2024 WL 4469217, at *2.)
 
Cook is a May 2024 decision from the Second
District Court of Appeal.  There, the
trial court found the arbitration agreement substantively unconscionable in
three ways and held that the unconscionable provisions could not be
severed.  The Second District affirmed
all three points.  First, the panel found
the scope unconscionable because the agreement covered all claims, not just
employment-related claims.  (See Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 321-325.) 
Second, the duration was unconscionable because the agreement stated
that it would survive Cook’s employment and could only be “revoked” if Cook and
USC’s president signed a written termination request that “expressly
mention[ed] the arbitration agreement.” 
(Id. at 326; see also id. at 325.) 
Third, the agreement lacked mutuality because it “require[d] Cook to
arbitrate . . . all claims she [] ha[d] against USC” and USC’s “related
entities” without requiring the “‘related entities’ to arbitrate their claims
against [her].”  (Id. at 326; see also
id. at 327-328.)
 
CVMC’s agreement appears to have the
scope and duration defects but not the mutuality defect:
 
SCOPE – “[b]y its express terms,” the Cook
agreement covered “all claims, whether or not arising out of Employee’s
University employment, remuneration or termination, that Employee may have
against the University or any of its related entities . . . ; and all claims
that the University may have against Employee.” 
(Cook, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 321.)  “The plain language of the agreement
require[d] Cook to arbitrate claims that [were] unrelated to her employment
with USC.”  (Ibid.; see also id. at 325
[“The arbitration agreement drafted by USC applies to all claims ‘whether or
not arising out of Employee's University employment, remuneration or
termination.’ If USC had been concerned about capturing termination or
retaliation claims related to Cook’s employment, it simply could have limited
the scope of the agreement to claims arising out of or relating to her
employment or termination. It is difficult to see how it is justified to expect
Cook—as a condition of her employment at the university—to give up the right to
ever sue a USC employee in court for defamatory statements or other claims that
are completely unrelated to Cook's employment.”].)  
 
CVMC’s agreement also covers claims
unrelated to employment: “Disputes Covered: Claims include all
disputes not prohibited by law from arbitration, including
statutory and common law claims, whether under state, federal, or local
law.”  (Lacy Decl., Ex. A, § 2, emphasis
in original.)
 
DURATION – to repeat, the Second District
found the duration of the USC agreement unconscionable because it survived
Cook’s employment and could only be “revoked” if Cook and USC’s president
signed a written termination request that “expressly mention[ed] the
arbitration agreement.”  (Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 326.) 

 
Similarly, CVMC’s agreement states that
it “shall survive the employer-employee relationship between Applicant and
Central Valley and that it “shall apply to any covered Claim, whether it arises
or is asserted during or after the termination of Applicant’s employment with
Central Valley.”  (Lacy Decl., Ex. A, §
9.)
 
MUTUALITY – Cook states:
 
The trial court also found the agreement
was unconscionable because it lacked mutuality. The agreement requires Cook to
arbitrate any and all claims she may have against USC “or any of its related
entities, including but not limited to faculty practice plans, or its or their
officers, trustees, administrators, employees or agents, in their capacity as
such or otherwise.” However, the agreement does not require USC's “related
entities” to arbitrate their claims against Cook.
 
* * *
 
Under Armendariz, a modicum of
bilaterality is required in arbitration agreements. Still, nothing in Armendariz supports
the conclusion that the presence of a modicum of bilaterality renders an
agreement per se conscionable. The presence of a modicum of bilaterality will
not save a clause that is, in practical effect, unjustifiably one-sided. There
is no question that it is more difficult for a party to enforce an arbitration
agreement against a nonsignatory than it is for a nonsignatory to enforce an
arbitration agreement against a party. This is intentional, as arbitration is
“a voluntary means of resolving disputes, and this voluntariness has been its
bedrock justification.” [Citation.] “Arbitration is consensual in nature. The
fundamental assumption of arbitration is that it may be invoked as an
alternative to the settlement of disputes by means other than the judicial
process solely because all parties have chosen to arbitrate them. [Citations.]
Even the strong public policy in favor of arbitration does not extend to those
who are not parties to an arbitration agreement or who have not authorized
anyone to act for them in executing such an agreement.” [Citation.]
 
As a result, nonsignatories may enforce
an arbitration agreement against a party to the agreement simply by showing
they are intended third-party beneficiaries of the arbitration agreement.
[Citation.] Where the agreement requires arbitration of claims against certain
classes of third parties, nonsignatories can make “a prima facie showing
sufficient to allow them to enforce the arbitration clause as third party
beneficiaries” simply by showing they fall within one of the classes of
beneficiaries identified by the contract. [Citation.]
 
Conversely, for Cook to enforce the
arbitration agreement against USC's agents or employees as third-party
beneficiaries, she would have to show they actually accepted a benefit under
the agreement. [Citation.] It is difficult to imagine how Cook could carry this
burden to compel USC's employees and agents to arbitration unless those
specific agents or employees first moved to compel arbitration under the
agreement. While it is theoretically possible for Cook to make this showing, it
is unlikely. [Citation.]
 
The plain language of the arbitration
agreement thus provides a significant benefit to USC's related entities without
any reciprocal benefit to Cook.
 
USC has offered no justification for this
one-sided treatment. [Citation.] We find the trial court did not err in holding
the arbitration agreement was substantively unconscionable for lack of
mutuality in the claims that are subject to arbitration. 
 
(Cook, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th
at 326, 327-328, underlined case names added.) 

 
CVMC’s agreement is different.  Plaintiff and CVMC’s “corporate affiliates,
subsidiaries, successors, assigns, owners, officers, [and] directors” must
arbitrate.  (Lacy Decl., Ex. A, p.
1.)  The agreement does not create a
one-way obligation.
 
Nevertheless, despite the distinction
(two defects instead of three), the Court believes the motion to compel should
be denied.  The linchpin in Cook was
that the scope was unlimited.  It was the
overbroad scope that made the other defects (duration and mutuality)
troublesome.  Indeed, the Cook
opinion seems to contextualize the mutuality defect, noting that “[n]o
explanation is offered as to why Cook should be required to give up the ability
to ever bring claims in court against a USC employee that are unrelated to
USC or her employment there.”  (Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 327, emphasis added.)  CVMC’s scope is similarly overbroad and
cannot be fixed without rewriting the agreement, which would be improper.  Severance is not possible (see Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 328-330), so the agreement is
unconscionable and unenforceable.
 
Injunctive
Relief, Class Waiver, and Confidentiality
 
Plaintiff contends the injunctive-relief
carveout is one-sided (see Opposition, p. 5), the class waiver only benefits
Defendants (see id. at p. 6), and the confidentiality section “prevent[s] the
claimant from contacting other employees to obtain helpful information . . .
.”  (Ibid.)
 
In light of the preceding analysis, the
Court declines to reach these issues.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Court denies Defendants’ motion.
 


