  Case Number:  22AHCV00646    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CLAIM JUMPER ACQUISITION COMPANY, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RICHARD
   T. HALE, JR., et. al,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00646
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS;
   REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   1, 2024




 


 


 



 
          On January 9,
2024, defendants Richard T. Hale, Jr. and Susan L Hale (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion to compel the production of documents from Plaintiff,
Claim Jumper Acquisition Company, LLC (“Plaintiff”) in response to Requests for
Production, Set Two, Nos. 20-43. 
          On January
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a “response” in which it stated that documents had
been produced. Plaintiff argues against the imposition of sanctions, stating
that it had never disputed Defendants’ entitlement to the documents. Plaintiff also
states that “[b]arely more than a month elapsed between the date of [its]
responses and Defendants’ motion to compel, and several holidays fell within
that period.” (Response, p. 2.) 
          Defendants
filed a reply brief on January 24, 2024, in which they reiterate their request
for sanctions. Defendants state that Plaintiff’s refusal to timely produce
documents “follow[ed] a consistent pattern of obstruction.” Defendants further
point out that the documents produced by Plaintiff were not Bates-stamped. 
          The Court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though the requested discovery was provided to the
moving party after the motion was filed. (CRC 3.1348(a).) Here, defense counsel
sent emails in early December inquiring of a production date but received no
response. Defense counsel also sent a letter on December 20, 2023. By January
2, 2024, a phone call revealed that Plaintiff had not even produced documents
to its own lawyers, meaning that Plaintiff’s counsel was unable to commit to a date
of production. (Morrow Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff offers no reason other than the
holidays for its delayed production. This is unavailing considering its
production consisted mainly of emails that could have been reviewed and
prepared for production after receiving the requests for production in early
November. 
          In light of
the foregoing, Defendants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against
Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $4,821.65 consisting of 8 hours at defense
counsel’s hourly rate of $595 and $61.65 in filing fees, to be paid within 20
days of the date of this order.
Dated
this 1st
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 