 Case Number:  23CMCV00621    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV00621   Atlas VI JCP Carson, LLC v. Khaled I. Azzam, et al. Thursday,  April 18, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR  SUMMARY JUDGMENT BY DEFENDANT, METRO FUSION, INC.   I.         BACKGROUND        The  complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest leased commercial  real property to Defendant, Khaled I. Azzam dba Metro Fusion (“Tenant” or  “Azzam”).  Plaintiff alleges that at some  point during the tenancy, the tenant transferred his interest in the lease to Metro  Fusion, Inc. (“Metro” or “Defendant”). Defendants allegedly defaulted on the  lease by failing to pay rent. Plaintiff alleges one cause of action for breach  of contract for overdue rent totaling $267,648.89.  II.       ARGUMENTS        Metro’s  motion filed on January 24, 2024, argues that the claim for breach of contract  should be adjudicated in Defendant’s favor because it was not a signatory to  the lease agreement, nor was it liable for the lease obligations as a  transferee or assignee of the tenant who signed the lease. Additionally, Plaintiff  is claims are barred by principles of estoppel by contract and the statute of  frauds.         Plaintiff’s  opposition filed on April 4, 2024, argues that the tenant, Azzam, transferred his  obligations under the lease agreement to Metro when Metro assumed payment of  rental obligations and because Metro was in full possession of the premises.  Moreover, the lease provides that a transfer of the lease to a limited  liability company does not violate the lease. Therefore, Metro is liable for  the rent as a matter of law and deemed to be an assignee of the lease  agreement.         In reply  filed on April 10, 2024, Metro argues that that the lease expressly made a  lease transfer or assignment ineffective without consent and would be deemed  null and void. The provision on which Plaintiff relies applies to transfer of  the lease to an LLC, which did not occur either.  III.     LEGAL STANDARDS        Summary  judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (c).) The court strictly  construes the moving party's supporting evidence while the opposing party’s  evidence is liberally construed. Doubts as to the propriety of the motion  should be resolved in favor of denying the motion. (D’Amico  v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20). The court does  not evaluate the credibility of testimony. (Binder  v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th 832, 840).         The  court applies the three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or  adjudication: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine  whether the moving party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim,  (3) if a defendant meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden  shifts, determine whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with  admissible evidence. (Torres  v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836).   IV.     DISCUSSION A.       Procedural issues        As an  initial matter, Plaintiff cannot unilaterally redact and file records under  seal based on the parties’ confidentiality agreement alone, and without a court  order. (Universal  City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1277  [“The respondent court found: the only justification for sealing the various  motions and papers was the contractual agreement of the parties; this  understanding, by itself, did not constitute an overriding interest; and none  of the other interests set forth in NBC Subsidiary (KNBC–TV), Inc. v.  Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222, footnote 46, 86 Cal.Rptr.2d  778, 980 P.2d 337, warranted sealing the documents."].)        The  rules requiring a court order to seal records are mandatory as court records  are presumed open in furtherance of the public’s general right of access to such  records.  (Savaglio  v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 600.) The party  seeking an order to seal records must show a compelling reason for the order and  comply with the Rules of Court. (Mary  R. v. B. & R. Corp. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308, 317; California  Rules of Court, Rule 2.551.) Absent a court order to permit sealed records,  the records lodged under seal shall be returned to the submitting party.  Accordingly, the Court returns the lodged records to the Plaintiff.   B.       Substantive analysis.        The  complaint alleges that Defendant Azzam signed the written lease agreement as  the tenant. (Complaint, ¶ 2.) Azzam allegedly transferred or assigned his  interest in the lease to Defendant Metro, a corporate entity. (Complaint, ¶¶ 12,  31).         The elements of a claim for breach of  contract requires allegations showing a valid and existing contract between the  parties, plaintiff’s performance or excuse for non-performance, defendant’s  breach, causation, and damage. (Reichert v. General Ins. Co. of America (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.) Metro’s motion essentially argues there  is no lease contract between it and Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s  predecessor-in-interest and therefore, Metro is not liable for rent  obligations.         The parties do not dispute the existence  of a lease agreement or that Defendant Metro is a California corporation, which  is not a fictitious business name of Azzam.  (UF 6, 8.). The parties dispute whether Azzam  transferred his lease obligations to Metro, the corporate entity.         The evidence establishes there is no  dispute that Azzam is the tenant under the lease agreement. (Plaintiff’s  evidence, Ex. 1 and 2, .pdf p.79.)  1)       Plaintiff’s  objections to Metro’s evidence.  a)       Declaration  of Khaled Azzam.                #1.  Overruled. As the tenant, Azzam has personal knowledge of the fact that that he  did not sign an assignment or transfer of the lease agreement to Metro. Nor did  he seek Plaintiff’s permission to assign or transfer the agreement. Azzam  affirms he is the tenant of lease.                #2.  Sustained as to statements made by landlord’s  unidentified “representative.” The basis for Azzam’s “understanding” of the  lease is based on hearsay and is not relevant. b)       Declaration  of Hussam Azzam.               #1.  Sustained as to statements made by landlord’s unidentified “representative.” Thus,  the basis for his “understanding” of the lease is based on hearsay and is  irrelevant.               #2.  Sustained, lacks foundation. No basis for his belief as to whether the lease  has been assigned or otherwise transferred to Metro.                #3.  Sustained. Lacks foundation for his understanding of the lease agreement and is  irrelevant. His interpretation and the effect of the lease provisions lack  foundation and are legal conclusions.               #4.  Sustained. The circumstances under which Defendants closed the store are irrelevant  to Metro’s alleged liability for lease payments.                #5,  6. Sustained. Metro’s operation of the business at a loss or whether rental  payments were made current are both irrelevant.  2)       Metro’s  objections filed April 10, 2024, in reply to the Declaration of Jenni Harris.               #1, 2, 3. The court declines to  rule on these objections. The documents showing Plaintiff is the  successor-in-interest based on its purchase of the premises from its  predecessor are irrelevant. Plaintiff’s rights to enforce the agreement as a  successor and current landlord is immaterial to the motion and not at issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q) ["In granting or denying a motion for  summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those  objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.”].)  Additionally, Ms. Harris has asserted sufficient facts to support the business  records exception to the hearsay rule. (Harris Decl. ¶10.)                #3, 4, 5. Overruled. Metro’s  objections to the lease agreement and amendment thereto are without merit since  Metro submitted the same documents in support of its motion. There is no  dispute as to the existence of these documents or its terms, or Plaintiff’s  standing to enforce it as successor-in-interest.                #6.  Overruled. Ms. Harris’s foundation for her assertion  that Metro took possession, installed fixtures, and operated its business at  the premises is based on her role as the person responsible for the leasing  administration. (Harris decl. ¶ 7-8.) She oversees any and all tenant  transactions, negotiations, including monitoring the lease obligations. (Id.)  She attests to facts to support  submission of the business records. (Harris decl. ¶ 10.) However, Ms. Harris’s  assertion that an “implied transfer” occurred because of Metro’s purported  activities on the premises or because Metro paid the rent is a legal conclusion.                 #7.  Overruled. Ms. Harris’s declaration provides facts to support the business  records exception and submission of the ledger account for the tenant.                 #8.  Sustained. Whether Metro (as opposed to Azzam) was required to pay rent  pursuant to the lease agreement requires interpretation of a contract, which is  for the court to decide as discussed below and is a legal conclusion.                #9. Sustained. Plaintiff’s  performance of its lease obligations is irrelevant to Metro’s liability for  rents (as opposed to Azzam). Additionally, the assertion that Plaintiff did not  engage in any acts or omissions to excuse performance is a legal conclusion and  is also immaterial to the motion.                #10. Overruled. The declaration is  based on the tenant’s ledger account information. (Harris decl., Exhibit G.) C.       The  lease provision concerning transfers and assignments.         The meaning and effect of a contract is a  matter of interpretation by the court. (Citizens Utilities Co. v. Wheeler (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 423, 432.) A contract’s meaning is not controlled by  what either parties intended or thought its meaning to be. (Id.)  Where the language of an agreement is clear  and explicit, the language governs its interpretation, and the trial court does  not take into consideration extraneous evidence to construe the meaning of a  contract. (Hicks v. Whelan Drug Co. (1955) 131 Cal.App.2d 110, 114; Civ. Code, § 1638.)        The lease at issue was signed on January  28, 2021, between Plaintiff’s predecessor and Khaled I. Azzam dba Metro Fusion.  (Azzam decl., Ex. 1.) The parties also signed an amendment to the lease  agreement in July of 2013. (Id., Ex.  2.)         There is no evidence of a written  agreement to transfer Azzam’s rental obligations to Metro or that Metro assumed  Azzam’s obligations to pay rent, or that Metro became a tenant, or that Azzam  agreed to sublet the premises to Metro.  (UF 1-4.) Plaintiff disputes these facts contending  that because Metro paid rent, occupied the premises, and operated its business  from the premises, Metro assumed the tenant’s obligations under the lease. Plaintiff  has not cited applicable authority supporting the contention that Metro’s  engagement in such conduct alone is effective to imply an assignment of the  tenant’s lease obligations to Metro. None of Plaintiff’s authority is  applicable.         Hartman  Ranch Co. v. Associated Oil Co.  (1937) 10 Cal.2d 232, 243 involved  a sublease containing an express promise that the sublessee would assume the  obligations of the parent lease. In the case at bar, there is no evidence of such  an express assumption that Metro assumed Azzam’s lease obligations.         Bank  of America Nat. Trust & Savings Ass'n v. Moore (1937) 18 Cal.App.2d 522, 524 involved an express assignment wherein the assignee accepted, assumed,  and agreed to perform all of the terms and conditions of the lease. Vallely  Investments, L.P. v. BancAmerica Commercial Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 816, 817 involved an express assignment of a leasehold and a sublease. Civ. Code, sections 1995.330 and Civ. Code, § 1995.330  governs  joint and several liability for transfers in violation of the lease agreement  and a landlord’s right to terminate the lease.         None of Plaintiff’s cited authority permits  an implied assumption of the obligations of a lease agreement by mere  possession of the premises by one who is not an assignee. Metro admits in  discovery responses that the rent sued upon has not been paid and that Metro  remains in possession of the premises. (Harris decl., ¶ 13 Exhs F, H.) Metro’s admissions  do not admit liability for the rent obligation nor do such admissions form the  basis for imposing liability.         There is no evidence to dispute that Azzam  did not assign or otherwise transfer the lease to Metro, or that Azzam sublet  the premises to Metro, or that Metro signed the lease agreement or received an  assignment or other transfer binding Metro to Azzam’s lease obligations. (UF  1-7.) Metro argues that such transfers were prohibited by the lease agreement. The  original lease provides that “… Tenant shall not transfer, assign, sublet,  enter into franchise, license or concession agreements, … without first  procuring the written consent of Landlord, … “ which Landlord shall not  unreasonably withhold. (Azzam decl., Ex. 1, .pdf page 32, § 14.1.1.) Any such  transfer “shall be void and of no force or effect and shall not confer any  estate or benefit on anyone” and shall not “relieve Tenant or any guarantor  from liability under this Lease.” (Id.)        It is undisputed that an assignment or  transfer of the tenant’s obligations required the landlord’s written consent,  none of which transpired in any event. (UF 10, Lease ¶ 14.1.1.).  Plaintiff generally cites principles of waiver  and asserts that it waived the requirement of a written consent to transfer the  tenant’s lease obligations by accepting checks. However, none of Plaintiff’s  case authority discusses that acceptance of checks is sufficient to impose a  legal duty on Metro for the tenant’s rent obligations as a matter of law. While  Plaintiff can waive its right to receive checks from the tenant specifically, the  issue is whether such acceptance is sufficient to impose liability on Metro on  a contract it did not sign.         As Metro argues, the contract is fully integrated  and therefore, estoppel by contract precludes Plaintiff from contradicting the  lease agreement. (Metro’s Ex. 1, ¶ 27.2; In  re Marriage of Brooks & Robinson  (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 176, 184 [“estoppel by contract; i.e., a party to a contract is generally  estopped to deny essential facts recited therein."].) Again, Plaintiff’s  reliance on Bank  of America Nat. Trust & Savings Ass'n v. Moore (1937) 18 Cal.App.2d 522 is misplaced. Defendant there was not the original lessee as those  obligations were transferred to Defendant as an assignee. (Id. at 524 [“Everybody seems agreed, and we accept it as the  fact, that there was a continuous connection between the original lessee and  the link which we find fastens the defendant, the assignment to him."]  Plaintiff has not established privity of contract here.         Plaintiff contends that Vallely  Investments, L.P. v. BancAmerica Commercial Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 816 is “highly analogous.” (Opp. 15:14-15.) That case involved an express,  recorded assignment to assume legal obligations, although the landlord was  unaware of the assignment until years later. (Vallely  Investments at 820.) Vallely is distinguishable  given the undisputed fact that an express assignment does not exist in this  case. (UF 3.)        Plaintiff argues that Metro is liable  because it occupied the premises. Plaintiff’s case authority is inapposite. In Ellingson  v. Walsh, O'Connor & Barneson  (1940) 15 Cal.2d 673, 676,  a partnership signed a lease agreement. The partners created a new partnership  with the addition of a new partner. (Id. at 676.)  The new partnership did not expressly assume the obligations of the lease but  occupied the premises. Whether the new partnership was contractually liable was  immaterial, as it was a tenant that occupied with consent of the landlord.  (Ellingson at 676 "Strangers coming in with  consent and occupying the premises would be liable; tenants would be liable  even if there were no lease at all; and this second partnership and all its  members were liable regardless of any lack of assumption of the obligations of  the lease.”)        Plaintiff’s claim against Metro is based  on contract and is determined on contract principles.  (Green  v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d  616, 624 ["In the  past, California courts have increasingly recognized the largely contractual  nature of contemporary lease agreements and have frequently analyzed such  leases' terms pursuant to contractual principles.”].) The overarching theme  common to all the cases cited by Plaintiff involves mutual consent.         Plaintiff appears to be arguing, in  effect, that a new tenancy was created because Metro occupied and paid the  rent, and therefore, Plaintiff can impose a legal obligation on Metro without a  contract. However, those two elements alone are not enough to establish a  tenancy by consent. (Cobb  v. San Francisco Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Bd. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 345, 352 ["A tenancy may be created by consent and  acceptance of rent, despite the absence of a lease."]  None of Plaintiff’s evidence or additional  facts establish that it consented to Metro’s occupation; this is a material  fact. Plaintiff relies on circumstantial evidence focusing on Metro’s conduct alone  without discussion of the landlord’s consent to that conduct. As previously  discussed, the tenant’s ability to assign, sublet, or otherwise transfer the  tenant’s rights under the lease was subject to the landlord’s written consent.    V.       CONCLUSION        Defendant has met its burden of showing  that it is entitled to judgment on the only claim for breach of contract based  on the undisputed material facts asserted. Accordingly, Metro Fusion, Inc.’s  motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  The  Court returns the lodged exhibits submitted by Plaintiff. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 23CMCV00621
 Atlas VI JCP Carson, LLC v. Khaled I. Azzam, et al.Thursday,
April 18, 2024, 8:30 a.m. [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR
RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF THE RIGHT TO CLAIM EXEMPTIONS FROM ATTACHMENT BY
DEFENDANT, KHALED I. AZZAM I.       
BACKGROUND       The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s predecessor in interest leased commercial
real property to Defendants pursuant to a written contract. Defendants
defaulted on the lease by failing to pay rent. Plaintiff alleges one cause of
action for breach of contract for damages of $267,648.89.        On
October 24, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s for a writ of attachment against
Defendant, for the full amount of rent owed.  II.     
ARGUMENTS       Defendant,
Khaled I. Azzam, seeks relief from his inadvertent waiver of the right to file
a claim of exemptions to the right to attach order. Defendant mistakenly
believed that claims for exemption could be filed at least five days before the
hearing. Defendant supports six children and a wife from net earnings of
$8,765.16 per month. He pays expenses for higher education as well as health
insurance, car lease payments, and other bills.         In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the motion is untimely made. Defendant failed to
file claims of exemption with his opposition to Plaintiff’s motion five days
before the hearing. Mistake is not a defense. Defendant is precluded by statute
from making a late claim of exemption. Waiting three months to make this motion
is not reasonable. Defense counsel’s conduct is not excusable.        In
reply, Defendant argues that even if Plaintiff obtains judgment, execution of
the judgment on Defendant’s wages would be exempt. Plaintiff’s opposition was
late. The policy to protect wages should overcome Defendant’s late exemption
claim. Plaintiff waited two and a half months to execute the writ,
demonstrating it is not a priority for Plaintiff.    III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS              Contrary
to Defendant’s reply brief, Plaintiff timely filed its opposition on April 5, 2024,
nine court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., 1005(b). Any purported
prejudice is mitigated as Defendant filed a reply brief which the Court has
considered.        The
court has authority pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 473 "to relieve a
person upon such terms as may be just from failure to claim an exemption within
the time and in the manner prescribed in the applicable enforcement
procedure." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 703.030.) Here, Defendant argues he miscalculated the time
for filing his claim of exemption by counting five calendar days instead of
five court days before the October 24, 2023, hearing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.070.)        While
Section 473 is liberally applied, the party seeking relief has to show a
satisfactory excuse for the conduct and diligence in making the motion. (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.) The court should apply the
“reasonably prudent person” standard acting under the same circumstances in
determining whether a person has acted with excusable neglect. (Elms
v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.
App. 2d 508, 513.) Section 473 has a six-month time limit for seeking relief. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473 subd. (b).)  Defendant filed this motion on January 16,
2024, less than three months from the October 24, 2023 hearing on Plaintiff’s
writ of attachment. Accordingly, the motion is timely filed.        If there is no prejudice, only
slight evidence is needed. Doubts are resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief in furtherance of the policy that the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits.  (Mink v. Superior
Court
(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338.) Calendaring errors by an attorney or a member of
his or her staff, are under appropriate circumstances, excusable. (Flores v.
Board of Supervisors (1970) 13 Cal. App. 3d 480, 483.)        There is no evidence that anyone
miscalculated the five-court day deadline to file a claim of exemption as the
motion asserts. (Mot. 3:28 – 4:4.) Defendant’s counsel, Shelly Jay Shafron,
filed the opposition to Plaintiff’s request for a writ of attachment. While Ms.
Shafron submitted a declaration in support of this motion, she attests only
that she met and conferred with opposing counsel regarding this motion. (Shelly
Jay Shafron Decl. filed 1/16/24.) A subsequent declaration attests to the
identical facts regarding defense counsel’s attempt to meet and confer. (Shelly Jay Shaffron Decl., filed 1/23/24.)IV.   
CONCLUSION       Absent any evidence of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect for untimely submitting
Defendant’s claim of exemption, the motion is DENIED. 

















































                               