  Case Number:  24PSCV00487    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Donald  Alan Newcomb v. John Anthony Garduno Protic, et al.  Defendants  John Anthony Garduno Protic and Ferreira Coastal Construction Co.’s Motion to  Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendants John Anthony Garduno Protic and Ferreira Coastal Construction Co.’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s amended complaint. The Court hereby STRIKES the allegations for punitive damages on page 6, paragraphs EX-1 and EX-2 of the First Amended Complaint. The Court will hear from the parties whether leave to amend should be granted.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a personal injury action. On February 16, 2024, plaintiff Donald  Alan Newcomb (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants John Anthony  Garduno Protic (Protic), PDQ Enterprises, Inc., and Does 1 to 50, alleging  causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence. On April 26, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a Doe amendment naming Ferreira Coastal Construction Co. (Ferreira)  as a defendant. On July 2, 2024, defendant PDQ Enterprises, Inc. was dismissed  per stipulation of the parties.  On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint against Protic, Ferreira, and Does 1 to 50, alleging the same causes  of action for motor vehicle and general negligence, and adding a claim for  exemplary damages.  On November 5, 2024, Protic and Ferreira (Moving Parties) moved to  strike Plaintiff’s claim for exemplary damages. On December 23, 2024, Plaintiff  opposed the motion. Moving Parties did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may  serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this  time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any  pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed  in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the  court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ efforts  to meet and confer insufficient, as there is no indication of having attempted  to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference. (See Warren  Jr. Decl., ¶ 5.) Nevertheless, the Court may not deny a motion to strike for  failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.  (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the motion to strike, but admonishes  Moving Parties to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure  going forward.  Summary of Arguments  Moving Parties seek to strike Plaintiff’s exemplary damages claim  on the grounds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently pleaded facts to support it.  Moving Parties contend that Plaintiff states general conclusory language  without pleading specific facts, and that there are no facts showing Protic’s  conduct was despicable or that he acted maliciously or with intent to injure  Plaintiff.[1]  In opposition, Plaintiff contends to have alleged sufficient facts  to sustain a claim for exemplary damages, such as Protic fleeing the scene of  the accident in violation of California Vehicle Code section 20002, subdivision  (a).[2] Plaintiff contends Protic engaged in multiple intentional acts that he knew  were likely to cause a crash and harm others by fleeing the scene, among other  things. Plaintiff then contends Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to  sustain a claim for punitive damages against Ferreira, i.e., Protic’s employer.[3] Plaintiff further contends that he does not need to allege the date on which  the corporate Defendants knew of Protic’s incompetence or the specific names of  the individuals who failed to take action because less particularity is  required when the defendant has superior knowledge of the facts, so long as the  pleading provides sufficient notice of the issue.  Analysis              In ruling on a  motion to strike punitive damages, "judges read allegations of a pleading  subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and  assume their truth." (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67  Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a  plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute,  Civil Code section 3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8  Cal.4th 704, 721.) Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that  the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, §  3294, subd. (a).)  As set forth  in the Civil Code, (1) "Malice" means conduct which is intended by  the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the  rights or safety of others. (2) "Oppression" means despicable conduct  that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of  that person's rights. (3) "Fraud" means an intentional  misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant  with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person  of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.) The court in Lackner v. North (2006)  135 Cal.App.4th 1188, offered further guidance and explained "despicable  conduct" is conduct that is "so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,  wretched or loathsome that is would be looked down upon and despised by  ordinary decent people." (Id. at 1210.)  Under  California law, to establish malice, it is not sufficient to show that the  defendant's conduct was negligent, grossly negligent or even reckless, since  such findings will not support a claim for punitive damages. (See Flyers  Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1968) 185 Cal.App.3d  1149, 1154-1155.) Further, punitive damages cannot be pled in conclusory terms,  instead the facts supporting a claim for punitive damages must be set out  clearly, concisely, and with particularity. (See Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) "When nondeliberate injury is  charged, allegations that the defendant's conduct was wrongful, willful,  wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary damages; such  allegations do not charge malice. When a defendant must produce evidence in  defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate  notice of the kind of conduct charged against him." (G. D. Searle &  Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].) In Anschutz  Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the  plaintiffs' assertions related to their claim for punitive damages were  "insufficient to meet the specific pleading requirement." (Anschutz  Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643  [plaintiffs alleged "the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done  willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious  disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the  malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of  exemplary and punitive damages"].)  In Taylor  v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court held: "We consider  whether punitive damages are recoverable in a personal injury action brought  against an intoxicated driver. As will appear, we have concluded that the act  of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of  "malice" under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which  disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences." (Taylor  v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892 [cleaned up].) The California  high court further held that "[o]ne who voluntarily commences, and  thereafter continues, to consume alcoholic beverages to the point of  intoxication, knowing from the outset that he must thereafter operate a motor  vehicle demonstrates, in the words of Dean Prosser, "such a conscious and  deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called  wilful or wanton." (Id. at p. 899.) But the California high court  also stated, "Although the circumstances in a particular case may disclose  similar wilful or wanton behavior in other forms, ordinarily, routine negligent  or even reckless disobedience of traffic laws would not justify an award of  punitive damages." (Id. at pp. 899-900, emphasis added.)  The FAC  alleges that Protic fled the scene of the accident in violation of California  Vehicle Code § 20002(a) – misdemeanor hit and run. The rest of the punitive  damage allegations are conclusions. (FAC, ¶¶ GN-1, EX-1, EX-2.) The Court finds  the FAC does not allege sufficient facts to support a claim for exemplary  damages against Protic or Ferreira. The FAC does not allege any facts showing that  Defendant Protic intended to cause injury to Plaintiff either at the time of  the collision or when he allegedly fled the scene. Furthermore, the FAC does  not allege any facts showing that Defendant Protic's fleeing the scene caused Plaintiff  any harm beyond that already caused by the accident. As previously stated,  allegations of negligence, or even gross negligence or recklessness, are  insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. Merely fleeing the scene  of an accident does not warrant the imposition of punitive damages and the act  of fleeing is not the basis for the claims alleged in the FAC. (See Brooks  v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679 [fleeing the  scene of an accident act is not a separately actionable tort unless the act of  fleeing causes additional injuries above and beyond those caused by the  accident.].)              With respect to  Ferreira, the most the FAC alleges is that Ferreira employed Protic and that  Ferreira owned and entrusted the vehicle Protic was driving at the time of the  accident, which is not enough to support a claim for exemplary damages. (FAC, ¶  MV-2.) The FAC lacks any allegations demonstrating that Ferreira knew in  advance that Protic was unfit and employed him with a conscious disregard of  Plaintiff’s rights or safety, or that Ferreira ratified or authorized Protic’s  conduct here. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b); see FAC, ¶¶ MV-1, MV-2, GN-1,  EX-1, EX-2.) The FAC also lacks any allegations regarding an officer, director,  or managing agent of Ferreira who had such advance knowledge of Protic’s  conduct or authorized or ratified it. (Ibid.)              Accordingly, the  Court GRANTS the motion to strike. The Court will hear from the parties whether  leave to amend should be granted.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendants John Anthony Garduno Protic and  Ferreira Coastal Construction Co.’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s  amended complaint. The Court hereby STRIKES the allegations for punitive  damages on page 6, paragraphs EX-1 and EX-2 of the First Amended Complaint. The  Court will hear from the parties whether leave to amend should be granted.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     