  Case Number:  22STCV36317    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  57 This is an action for assault and battery. The First Amended Complaint
(FAC) alleges as follows. When Plaintiff Robert J. Wood (“Plaintiff”) attempted
to enter the R.V. belonging to his sister Shannon, at her invitation (FAC ¶¶ 9–12),
two other people in the dwelling, including Alexandra Menchaca, attempted to
deny him entry. (FAC ¶¶ 13–18.) When Plaintiff entered the R.V., Menchaca shot
him in the arm, causing him injuries that required hospital treatment.
(Complaint ¶¶ 18–25.)  Menchaca is now deceased.  Plaintiff sued Gerald Marcus, the personal
representative of Menchaca’s Estate (“Defendant”). 
 
Pending before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling
Defendant to provide further responses to form interrogatories No. 2.12, 2.13, 4.2, 12.1–12.7, 13.1, 13.2,
16.2–16.10, and special interrogatories No. 1, 2, 4–37 and 70–90.  The Court is granting the Plaintiff’s motion.  The information that Plaintiff is seeking in
the interrogatories is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims or reasonably likely to
lead the discovery of admissible evidence. 
And Defendant has not furnished an adequate justification for his myriad
objections to the interrogatories.  Defendant
is ordered to provide to Plaintiff further responses to the interrogatories at
issue by May 23, 2024.
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action
written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010(a).) The scope
of what may be sought through interrogatories is broad.  The overarching provision of the Civil
Discovery Act on the breadth of discovery states that “any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Id. § 2017.010.)  If a propounding party is not satisfied with
the response served by a responding party, the former may move the court to
compel further interrogatory responses. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  The propounding
party must demonstrate that the responses were incomplete, inadequate or
evasive, or that the responding party asserted objections that are either
without merit or too general.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300(a)(1)–(3); Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 403.)  The burden is
on the nonmoving party to justify objections to interrogatories.  Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58
Cal.2d 210, 220.)
Plaintiff here seeks
further responses to form interrogatories and special interrogatories. These
interrogatories were served on December 6 and 9, 2023, and responses were
served on February 12, 2024, pursuant to an agreed extension. (Price Decl. ¶¶
7–12.)
The form interrogatories
at issue -- 2.12, 2.13,
4.2, 12.1–12.7, 13.1, 13.2, 16.2–16.10 - sought information concerning Menchaca's
mental state; her insurance; percipient witnesses to the incident and related
statements, recordings, and photographs; and Defendant’s contentions regarding
the authenticity of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. (See Separate
Statement.) Defendant responded to these interrogatories with objections based
on relevance, attorney-client privilege and work product, and the status of
discovery. (Separate Statement at pp. 2–25.) Defendant also incorporated prior
supplemental responses to other form interrogatories served on September 22,
2023. (Ibid.)
The special
interrogatories can be divided into groups by subject. Interrogatories No. 1,
2, and 4–37 sought facts supporting Defendant’s general denial, as it relates
to particular allegations in the FAC. (Separate Statement at pp. 25–108.)
Interrogatories No. 70–84 sought facts supporting Defendant’s affirmative
defenses. (Separate Statement at pp. 111–146.) Interrogatories No. 85–90 sought
information related to the assets contained in Defendant’s estate and creditors
and payments being made therefrom. (Separate Statement at pp. 148–152.)
Defendant responded to these interrogatories with objections and statements
regarding the status of discovery, and responded only with objections to
Interrogatories No. 85–90 based on privacy and relevance.
In opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant argues that the interrogatories were propounded
in bad faith and solely to harass. (Opposition at p. 3.) He notes that the
special interrogatories seek facts only in support of Defendant’s denial of
even-numbered paragraphs in the FAC, including paragraphs that contain only
innocuous or undisputed allegations, or that merely incorporate other
paragraphs. (Opposition at pp. 3–6.) Defendant further argues that these form
interrogatories are duplicative of prior form interrogatories that were served
and responded to in September 2023. (Opposition at pp. Marcus Decl. ¶ 6.)
Defendant similarly
argues that various form interrogatories are unrelated to this litigation, such
as those asking whether Defendant is a corporation or whether any public agency
has licensed Defendant’s business. (Opposition at pp. 6–7.) Defendant also
argues that the separate statement included with the motion is defective because
it concerns allegations and affirmative defenses, the text of which are not
included in the body of the separate statement. (Opposition at pp. 7–8.)
Defendant also takes issue with the boilerplate “reasons for compelling further
response” that has been copied and pasted under each interrogatory at issue.
(Opposition at pp. 8–9.) Defendant seeks $15,725.00 in sanctions from Plaintiff
for 37 hours of attorney work. (Marcus Decl. ¶ 10.)
The Court has concluded
that the Defendant’s position is not well-grounded  
Although Defendant points
to prior form interrogatories directed to the same subject matter, he omits
that he objected to each of these prior interrogatories on the grounds that
they were served against him in his individual capacity, rather than his capacity
as personal representative of Menchaca’s Estate. (Marcus Decl. Exh. 1.)
Defendant cannot fairly complain of duplicative efforts  when the discovery at issue was prompted by
his wholesale objection to a prior iteration of discovery.
Moreover, Defendant’s
objections to the relevance of certain interrogatories is unsupported. If an
interrogatory such as form interrogatory No. 2.13 asks Defendant, “Are you a
corporation?”, Defendant may obviate the necessity of lengthy objections and
redundant motion practice by responding, “No.” Similarly, if an interrogatory
asks Defendant to state facts supporting his denial of a fact he now deems
innocuous and not in dispute (despite his general denial), he may respond by
stating that he does not in fact dispute the allegation. Defendant has instead
elected sweeping objections and 37 hours of motion practice trying to defend them.
Defendant’s most
substantive objection is not, in fact, that a great amount of the
interrogatories are off-topic or inapplicable, but rather that the primary
witnesses to the incident at issue were impaired at the time of the incident or
are currently deceased and that therefore he cannot answer the interrogatories.
(Marcus Decl. ¶ 2.) The Discovery Act provides a means for litigants to make
clear when they are unable to answer an interrogatory:
If the responding party
does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220, subd. (c).) 
Defendant has neither
availed himself of this option in general nor responded with sufficient
straightforwardness to differentiate between 
those interrogatories to which he genuinely lacks information and those
to which he simply he did not wish to respond. Responses
to interrogatories must be “as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.220, subd. (a).) The responses here are not straightforward, and are
indeed not differentiated by the allegation or affirmative defense at issue. 
Defendant’s argument that the motion is
procedurally defective is likewise unavailing.  Defendant complains that the separate
statement in support of the motion does not include the text of the affirmative
defenses or allegations at issue. (Opposition at p. 7.) But there is no
requirement that the pleaded matter to which a discovery request
pertains be included in a separate statement.  Such a statement need only incorporate
additional discovery requests and responses, and only then “”[i]f the response
to a particular discovery request is dependent on the response given to another
discovery request, or if the reasons a further response to a particular
discovery request is deemed necessary are based on the response to some other
discovery request,” (CRC Rule 3.1345, subd. ((c)(5).) There is no requirement
that a moving party needlessly lengthen a separate statement by the inclusion
pleaded materials.
Defendant finally objects to Plaintiff’s use in the
separate statement of copy-pasted justifications for the interrogatories, which
he contends do not address his objections to the interrogatories. (Opposition
at pp. 7–9.) This argument fails, however, for two reasons. First, it is not
Plaintiff’s burden on a motion to compel further responses to rebut Defendant’s
objections. It is rather Defendant’s burden to support those objections in
opposition to the motion. Second, Defendant’s objection to boilerplate separate
statement responses misses the mark, 
because his discovery responses  themselves do not differ in substance depending
on the particular allegation or affirmative defense at issue and are
boilerplate.  
Because
the Court is granting Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant’s request for the
imposition of sanctions against Plaintiff is denied.  
 
Plaintiff’s
notice of motion did not include a request for monetary sanctions against the
Defendant.  At the very end of the
memorandum in support of the motion, Plaintiff requests monetary  sanctions, albeit with no amount specified and
with no information to support any amount of sanctions.   Because
Plaintiff did not formally move for sanctions against Defendant and because the
motion and memorandum do not furnish information related to the amount of sanctions,
the Court has concluded that Plaintiff is not entitled to an order imposing
monetary sanctions against Deendant.
 