  Case Number:  22STCV03943    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  A 22STCV03943
 Shiny River, Ltd. v. Emmet Furla Oasis Films, LLC
Thursday, November
 15, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANTS’ FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
I.       BACKGROUND
      The first amended complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s assignee
provided 10 individual loans to Defendants for the development and production
of independent motion pictures. The aggregate amount lent was $3,487,100. Defendants
failed to repay. Plaintiff alleges breach of contract and related claims, fraud,
common count, and for foreclosure of copyright mortgages.
II.     ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
served a document request and special interrogatories requesting financial
information of Defendants, Randall Emmet (“Emmett”), George Furla (“Furla”),
and Emmett Furla Oasis Films, LLC (“Oasis”, collectively Defendants.)
Defendants objected despite receiving an almost two-week extension to respond.
The financial information is relevant and discoverable to prove that Defendants
received producer fees that should have gone to Plaintiff according to each
personal guarantee signed by Defendants agreeing not to receive any individual
or corporate executive producer fees individually or through an entity they
owned or controlled. Defendants breach this term.  
      In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer.
Plaintiff refused to limit the scope of the documents in any respect, even
though this action concerns conduct after December 31, 2018. Defendants state
the primary issue is the time period for the records at issue. Plaintiff is relying
on 2015 and 2016 contracts not signed by the individual defendants. While the
parties entered into a protective order, it does not give Plaintiff the right
to demand financial information that do not relate to the loans at issue.
      In reply,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ breach of their personal guarantees for the
2015 and 2016 Film Loans warrant discovery of their finances in order to
establish Defendants took producer fees to which they were not entitled. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      A
motion to compel further responses to a document request is proper where the
moving party believes the statement of compliance is incomplete, or a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, evasive and/or an
objection is without merit or too general. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (a); Code
Civ. Proc., sections 2030.300 subd. (a); 2031.310
subd. (a).) All motions require the parties to meet and confer prior to filing
the motion. The motion must show good cause to justify the discovery and must
be supported by a meet and confer declaration. (Id. at
subd. (b).) 
      The
scope of discovery is liberally construed in favor of disclosure “as a matter
of right unless statutory or public policy considerations clearly prohibit it.”
(Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355,
377-378.) The broad scope of permissible discovery includes “any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
IV.  
DISCUSSION
      Plaintiff
met and conferred with defense counsel by mail sent on August 27, 2024, and by
two separate telephone conversations on August 30, 2024, and September 24,
2024, without resolution. (Decl. of Alec Pierce Schulman, ¶¶ 10-13.) At issue
are the following requests:
Request for Production of Documents, Set Three (“RPD”),
and Special Interrogatories, Set One (“SI”) served on each defendant who served
their responses consisting only of objections on August 26, 2024. (Schulman
Decl., Exs. A-F.) 
 
V.    
LEGAL STANDARDS
      A
motion to compel further responses to a document request is proper where the moving
party believes the statement of compliance is incomplete, or a representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, evasive and/or an objection is without
merit or too general. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (a); Code
Civ. Proc., sections 2030.300 subd. (a).) All motions require the parties
to meet and confer prior to filing the motion. The motion must show good cause
to justify the discovery and must be supported by a meet and confer
declaration. (Id. at subd. (b).) Plaintiff has complied with the
foregoing requirements. 
      The party claiming a privacy interest
bears the burden of proof on the issue. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 531. [“The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”].) 
      The right of privacy protects against
compelled disclosure of confidential records including tax and personal
financial records pertaining to topics not placed in issue by filing the
complaint. (White
v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 757) [constitutional privacy]; Brown
v. Superior Court (1977) 71
Cal.App.3d 141[tax and
related records]; SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 741, 754
[personal financial information.].) 
       Where
privacy rights are implicated, the requesting party must make a threshold
showing that the records sought are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and
are essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit. (Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014).  An order compelling disclosure must be
narrowly tailored so as not to infringe on constitutional rights. Speculation
that an answer may recover something helpful does not meet that threshold
burden. (Fults
v. Superior Court (1979) 88
Cal.App.3d 899, 901.)
      The party asserting privacy must establish
the extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557). Against
that showing, the court must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing
party identifies. (Id.). The court considers the purpose of the
information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the affected
persons and parties, the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting
disclosure, and whether there are less intrusive means for obtaining the
requested information. (SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 741, 755).
Therefore, the privacy interest is not absolute; rather, the court weighs
factors to determine whether the financial information should be compelled. 
VI.  
DISCUSSION
      Plaintiff requests financial information
from January 1, 2015,to January 1, 2023. Plaintiff has established that the information
sought are directly related to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for breach of
the personal guarantees and the fourth causes of action for promissory fraud. Plaintiff
alleges the personal guarantees expressly required Emmett and Furla to pay
producer and executive producer fees to Plaintiff’s assignee, the Guarantor.
(FAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges the guarantees were necessary to ensure the
solvency of Plaintiff’s assignee and honor its lending obligations. (Id.) The corporate guarantees at issue were signed beginning April 1, 2015,
through August 15, 2016. (FAC ¶ 16.)
      Defendants have not established why the
scope of financial records should be limited to information beginning December
18, 2018, at which time the parties agreed to restructure the unpaid debts by
entering into a Prior Trade Arrangements Agreement (“PTA”). (FAC, ¶¶  26.) Notably, Plaintiff alleges that the PTA
did not modify the corporate or personal guarantees. (FAC, ¶ 28.) Therefore,
Plaintiff has established that the requests for financial records and
information are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations, and without them,
Plaintiff will be deprived of the rights and remedies described in the personal
guarantees as alleged.
      Defendant Oasis has not established that
it is entitled to privacy in its financial information.  (Hecht,
Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579, 594 ["However, ‘[t]he constitutional
provision simply does not apply to corporations. The provision protects the
privacy rights of people.’"].) Hecht did not decide the issue of whether
artificial entities have privacy rights, but rather assumed it given the
“ordinary” discovery problems at issue that “fell within the recognized framework
for discovery in civil cases,” namely the proper balancing of the requested
discovery, its relevance to the subject matter, whether it is reasonably
calculated to lead to discovery, against any countervailing interests.
      To the extent Oasis has a privacy
interest, the same reasoning would apply to compel disclosure of Oasis’
financial information. Plaintiff alleges that Emmett and Furla are the managing
founders and managing members of Oasis. (Complaint, ¶¶5-6.) Emmett and Furla
both agreed that executive or producer fees would not be received through any
entity they owned, controlled, or was affiliated with. (Complaint, ¶ 20.)
      Defendants have not shown that financial information
prior to the PTA agreement is not discoverable. There is no allegation that the
PTA superseded the personal guarantees, instead, Plaintiff alleges that the
obligations now at issue remained unchanged according to the PTA. Nor have
Defendants persuasively demonstrated the relevance of the date that Plaintiff
was assigned the rights and obligations of the guarantees at issue (May 1,
2021). Therefore, the financial information consisting of ledgers, bank information,
profit and loss statements, and the like are discoverable. 
      Defendants’ private financial information
is further protected from public disclosure given the parties’ stipulation and
protective order that limits access to confidential information. (Min. Ord. , ¶
7 filed 11/17/22.)
      Plaintiff is entitled to an award of
sanctions as Defendants have not shown substantial justification for their
conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 subd. (h.); (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300 subd. (d).) The court awards attorney’s
fees of $2,610 ($425 x 6 hours + $60 in costs) to prepare the motion and reply
and to appear at the hearing. 
VII.
CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion
is GRANTED. Defendants are ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant
responses and production of documents without objection to the discovery at
issue within 10 days. Sanctions of $2610 are payable to Plaintiff within 10
days by Defendants, Randall Emmett, George Furla and Emmett Furla Oasis Films
($870 per Defendant.)