  Case Number:  BC701546    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
3-15-24
Case
# BC701546
Trial
Date: N/A
 
STAY ENFORCEMENT ON JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Fame Housing Corporation, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Denise Brown, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Stay Enforcement of the Judgment
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION & PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
On April 11, 2018, Plaintiffs Denise Brown, Dean Brown, and
Solon Escobar filed a breach of contract and wage and hour action against
defendants FAME Housing Corporation, FAME Assistance Corporation, and FAME Good
Shepherd Center Housing Development Corporation. On November 17, 2023, the
court issued a tentative statement of decision finding in favor of all three
plaintiffs:
 
1. Judgment shall be entered in favor of Plaintiff Denise
Brown in the total amount of $1,177,889.08. The Award in favor of Denise Brown
is against Defendants (1) FAME Housing Corporation, (2) FAME Assistance
Corporation and (3) FAME Good Shepherd Corporation, jointly and severally. 2.
Judgment shall be entered in favor of Plaintiff Dean E. Brown in the total
amount of $28,203.20. The Award in favor of Dean E. Brown is against Defendants
(1) FAME Housing Corporation and (2) FAME Assistance Corporation, jointly and
severally 3. Judgment shall be entered in favor of Plaintiff Solon Escobar in
the total amount of $29,715.02. The Award in favor of Solon Escobar is against
Defendants (1) FAME Housing Corporation (2) FAME Assistance Corporation,
jointly and severally. On December 29, 2023, the court entered judgment.
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Robert Shaw, Sandra Deloza Rodriguez, and Peggy
Hill: Overruled.
 
On January 9, 2024, the clerk issued a writ of execution on
the $1,180.833.46 judgment. On January 31, 2024, the court heard the ex parte
motion of defendant/judgment debtors to “issue and a release order vacating
illegal levies placed upon Defendants’ bank accounts,” and ordered the Los
Angeles County Sheriff to “maintain the levies in place,” with a bar on any
party to “use, transfer, or dispose of levies pending the subject hearing.” On
February 5, 2024, the court reiterated the order for preservation of the status
quo via the stay on the judgment collection activities and the enforcement of
the judgment pending the March 15, 2024, hearing, while providing the parties
leave to conduct discovery and file any attorneys’ fees motion.
 
The court ordered supplemental briefing. Defendants/Judgment
Debtors FAME Housing Corporation, FAME Assistance Corporation, and FAME Good
Shepherd Center Housing Development Corporation (FAME) request a stay from any
enforcement on any accounts, due to a denial of the right to levy the subject
accounts and therefore outside the scope of statutory enforcement. FAME
specifically disclaims ownership of the funds in said accounts and instead
insists all funds belong or are “pledged” to third party non-judgment debtors. Plaintiffs/Judgment
Creditors in opposition challenge the notice of the motion, maintain all levies
are statutorily compliant, and Defendants/Judgment Debtors present no basis for
exemption. (Plaintiffs also submitted a late filed, uninvited supplemental
declaration, which the court declines to consider in that it is again untimely,
and FAME was deprived of an opportunity to respond.) FAME in reply contend the
represented collection efforts rely on “demonstrably false” information. FAME
reiterates the procedural requirements, and contends superior rights to the
funds overcome any judgment levy.
 
The
court first addresses the February 23, 2024, Notice of Appeal on the judgment,
and February 27, 2024, filed Notice of filing of Notice of Appeal. The “perfecting” of an appeal imposes an automatic stay on the case
on “matters embraced therein…but the trial
court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected
by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a).) Defendants
present no argument or a notice of stay following the appeal, or otherwise
indicate an effort to stay enforcement of the judgment pending the appeal. The
court declines to make any determination without a presented request. The
court therefore proceeds with the hearing. (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 189; Henry M. Lee Law Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 1375, 1383-1384.)
 
FAME
seek relief on grounds the funds are not subject to execution. The motion
relies on general statements of exemption. “Except as
otherwise provided by statute, property of the judgment debtor that is not
assignable or transferable is not subject to enforcement of a money judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 695.030, subd. (a).) “Property
that is not subject to enforcement of a money judgment is exempt without making
a claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 704.210.) FAME relies on an interrelated
argument, whereby the funds are assumed exempt. Instead of complying with
statutory rules for attachment, FAME contends Plaintiffs only obtained their
writ through the clerk, and violated due process rights due to the lack of a
noticed hearing. 
 
Factually, FAME
represents the lack of ownership over the funds in the levied accounts, due to
its role as a non-profit management entity, with a lack of any equity interest
in the managed properties. The two levied accounts with city National Bank
contain tenant security deposits, which under federal, state, and city rules
require security said deposits placed into separate interest earning accounts
in order to prevent any commingling with grant revenue accounts.
Notwithstanding the identified separate security accounts, FAME states said
security deposit accounts are used for payment of utilities and maintenance.
Additionally, FAME also apparently maintains separately designated Operating
and Payroll Accounts, with funds also used for disbursement to tenants for
certain services, such as transportation with Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (LACMTA). The Operating and Payroll Accounts receive
revenue from grants, such as from LACMTA, as well as rent and lease income
revenue from “headquarters,” FAME Assistance Corporation Renaissance Building.
On September 23, 2023, FAME also entered into a second deed of trust assigning
“right, title and interest in and to all current future Leases and Rents” to
third parties WestAdams and BRG.
 
The issuance of the writ itself constitutes a ministerial act. (In
re Marriage of Farner (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1370, 1376 [“The
clerk acts in a ministerial capacity and has no discretion to refuse issuance
of the writ when confronted with an unconditional judgment, in ordinary form”].)
 
(a)
Subject to subdivision (b), after entry of a money judgment, a writ of
execution shall be issued by the clerk of the court, upon application of the
judgment creditor, and shall be directed to the levying officer in the county
where the levy is to be made and to any registered process server. The clerk of
the court shall give priority to the application for, and issuance of, writs of
execution on orders or judgments for child support and spousal support. A
separate writ shall be issued for each county where a levy is to be made. Writs
may be issued successively until the money judgment is satisfied, except that a
new writ may not be issued for a county until the expiration of 180 days after
the issuance of a prior writ for that county unless the prior writ is first
returned....
(d) In any case where the
writ of execution lists any name other than that listed on the judgment, the
person in possession or control of the levied property, if other than the
judgment debtor, shall not pay to the levying officer the amount or deliver the
property being levied upon until being notified to do so by the levying
officer. The levying officer may not require the person, if other than the
judgment debtor, in possession or control of the levied property to pay the
amount or deliver the property levied upon until the expiration of 15 days
after service of notice of levy.
 
Code Civ.
Proc., § 699.510
 
The court
finds no wrongful conduct in the issuance of the writ based on the judgment
from the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 699.510, 700.140, subd. (a),700.160, subd.
(a).) The court also shows no basis of an invalid writ based on any purported
exemption. “In any case where property has been levied upon and, pursuant to a
levy, a copy of the writ of execution and a notice of levy are required by
statute to be posted or to be served on or mailed to the judgment debtor or
other person, failure to post, serve, or mail the copy of the writ and the
notice does not affect the execution lien created by the levy. Failure to serve
on or mail to the judgment debtor a list of exemptions does not affect the
execution lien created by the levy.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 699.550.)
 
The notice requirements relied upon by FAME appear in the
exemption section.
 
“(a)
Money in the judgment debtor's deposit account in an amount equal to or less
than the minimum basic standard of adequate care for a family of four for
Region 1, established by Section 11452 of the Welfare and Institutions Code and
as annually adjusted by the State Department of Social Services pursuant to
Section 11453 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is exempt without making a
claim. ...
(e)(1)
The exemption applies per debtor, not per account.
(2) If a
judgment debtor holds an interest in multiple accounts at a single financial
institution, the judgment creditor or judgment debtor may file an ex parte
application in the superior court in which the judgment was entered for a
hearing to establish how and to which account the exemption should be applied.
Subject to a service of an order issued in that hearing, if any, the financial
institution may determine how and to which account the exemption should be
applied. This paragraph does not create a cause of action against a judgment
creditor who executes a levy or against a financial institution that complies
with a levy pursuant to the court's determination.
(3) If a
judgment debtor holds an interest in multiple accounts at two or more financial
institutions, the judgment creditor shall, and the judgment debtor may, file an
ex parte application in the superior court in which the judgment was entered
for a hearing to establish how and to which account the exemption should be
applied. Subject to a service of an order issued in that hearing, if any, the
financial institutions shall comply with the levy subject to the exemption.
This paragraph does not create a cause of action against a judgment creditor
who executes a levy or against a financial institution which complies with a
levy pursuant to the court's determination.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 704.220.)
 
Nothing in the motion or reply itself actually
establishes any basis of exemption under the “minimum basic standard of
adequate care for a family of four for Region 1, established by Section 11452
of the Welfare and Institutions Code and as annually adjusted by the State
Department of Social Services pursuant to Section 11453 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code.” Exemptions are limited to “natural persons” not corporate entities. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 703.020, subd. (a).) Exemptions begin with Code of Civil Procedure
section 704.210. Thus, reliance on this section in no way establishes
compliance with the following section.
 
Even
assuming such an exemption applied, the motion and reply provide no basis of
support requiring a proactive ex parte hearing for issuance of the writ and
execution via the Los Angeles County Sheriff. The motion itself otherwise lacks
any support for a claim of exemption. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520, 720.110, et
seq.) Furthermore, any claims of a superior right to the funds lacks support,
notwithstanding the dispute in the reply. (Cal. U. Com. Code, §§ 9304, 9332; Code
Civ. Proc., § 697.590; see Orix Financial Services, Inc.
v. Kovacs (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 242, 250.)
In reviewing the statement of decision and subsequent judgment, the court only
addressed the contract and wage claims, without any consideration of potential
judgment collection. The court finds no basis for a proactive requirement to
clear any potential exemptions prior to serving the writ of execution. 
 
The
court therefore denies the motion on grounds of any procedural challenge caused
from the ministerial issuance of the writ itself. As for the denial of
ownership of the levied funds, the court also finds a lack of support. Again,
nothing in the record shows any third party filed claim of exemption on any
levied amount. Nothing precluded FAME or any of the identified third parties
from seeking an exemption. The motion otherwise lacks sufficient legal support
for relief from collection simply based on declarations in support. [See
Declarations of Edwin Rush, Robert Shaw, Peggy Hill, Sandra Deloza Rodriguez.]
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 