




            This
is an action arising from a breach of a loan agreement. Plaintiff Aida
Shahbandeh Masihi (Plaintiff) alleges that Defendants solicited a $400,000 loan
from Plaintiff, representing that the funds would be used to develop a “proven
cure” for Coronavirus/COVID-19 and that the loan would be repaid with interest
(for a total $500,000) by a due date of April 1, 2021. Defendants never
provided written loan documents and never repaid any of the funds, despite
repeated promises.
            
            On
November 30, 2021, a Complaint was filed against Defendants Prexa Santé LLC,
Infusion Pharmacy Network LLC, Integrative Wellness Network LLC, Stem Cell
Therapeutics LA LLC, Robbin Messier, Matthew A. Bennett, and Christine Collins
(Defendants). After filing a demurrer (which the Court overruled), Defendants Prexa
Santé LLC, Infusion Pharmacy Network LLC, Integrative Wellness Network LLC,
Stem Cell Therapeutics LA LLC (collectively, Companies), Robbin Messier,
Matthew A. Bennett, Christine Collins filed an answer. Plaintiff then filed a
motion to strike the answer of Stem Cell Therapeutics LA LLC. On April 27,
2023, the Court entered an order striking the Answer as to all Companies and
entering their defaults.
 
            On
July 18, 2023, the Court entered Judgment against Defendants Companies, in the
amount of $500,000, jointly and severally.
 
            On
July 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a FAC. The Court
granted the motion. On August 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a FAC alleging claims
for (1) breach of oral contract; (2) account stated; (3) open book account; (4)
fraud and deceit, and (5.) money had and received. On October 2, 2023, default
was entered as to Matthew A Bennet, MD and Robin Messier.
 
            Plaintiff
moved for default judgment against Defendants Matthew A Bennet, MD and Robin
Messier. Defendant Christine Collins, MD had been dismissed. The request for
entry of default judgment was denied. 
 
            Then,
Plaintiff again moved for entry of default judgment against Defendants Matthew
A Bennet, MD and Robin Messier. On January 4, 2024, entry of default judgment
was granted. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to amend the judgment nunc pro tunc. No opposition was filed. 
 
            The
motion is granted.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff moves to amend the judgment entered on January 4, 2024, to (1.)
correct the spelling of Robbin Messier’s first name in the previously entered
Judgments, which is misspelled as “Robin” instead of the proper spelling
“Robbin” as reflected in the Complaint, Summons, and other documents on file
with the Court; and (2.) include the additional spelling of Bennett’s first
name “Matthew” so the Second Amended Judgment is against “Mathew A. Bennett, MD
also known as Matthew A. Bennett, MD and “Robbin Messier” as reflected in the
Proposed Second Amended Judgment lodged concurrently herewith.
 
            It is elementary that “[a] court can
always correct a clerical, as distinguished from a judicial error which appears
on the face of a decree by a nunc pro tunc order. [Citation.] It cannot,
however, change an order which has become final even though made in error, if
in fact the order made was that intended to be made.” (Estate of Eckstrom
(1960) 54 Cal.2d 540, 544.) In Tokio Marine & Fire Ins. Corp. v. Western
Pacific Roofing Corp. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 110, 117, the court elaborated
on this point: “The test which distinguishes clerical error from possible
judicial error is simply whether the challenged portion of the judgment was
entered inadvertently (which is clerical error) versus advertently (which might
be judicial error, but is not clerical error). [Citation.] Unless the
challenged portion of the judgment was entered inadvertently, it cannot be
changed post judgment under the guise of correction of clerical error.”
 
            Here, the amendment address nothing
more than a scrivener’s error – a mere typo. This is the type of clerical error
that may be corrected on a motion to amend an order nunc pro tunc. 
 
Conclusion 
 
            The motion to amend the judgment is
granted. 
 