  Case Number:  22STCV37268    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior
Court of California
County of
Los Angeles
Department
78
 



ANDREW
  RISK,
Plaintiff,
vs. 
UNITED
  AIRLINES, INC.,
Defendant. 


Case
  No.: 


22STCV37268




Hearing
  Date: 


June 5,
  2024 





 




[TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE:  
MOTION
  TO SEAL FILED BY DEFENDANT UNITED AIRLINES, INC.



 
Defendant United Airlines, Inc.’s
motion to seal is GRANTED.
Moving party to provide
notice.
I.           
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
This is an action for violations of the FEHA, negligent hiring, wrongful
termination, violations of the labor code, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that while employed as a pilot with
Defendant United Airlines, he requested accommodations for his disabilities,
took medical leave, and made complaints about discrimination, retaliation, and
harassment. After his doctor informed Plaintiff he could not obtain the
COVID-19 vaccine due to breathing issues caused by COVID-19, Defendant
investigated Plaintiff for failing to obtain the vaccine and threatened to terminate
Plaintiff if he did not obtain the vaccine. In December 2021, Plaintiff was
terminated.
II.         
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
On November 28, 2022, Plaintiff Andrew Risk filed his Complaint against
Defendants United Airlines, Inc. and Brian Jackson.
On December 27, 2022, Defendants answered.
On February 3, 2024, Defendant Brian Jackson was dismissed from this
action.
On February 13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.
On May 8, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to seal.
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD
Pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 2.550
the court may seal a record “only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public
access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) In Hinshaw v. Superior Court
(1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242, the court stated that private, non-governmental
parties have a privacy interest in maintaining confidentiality of settlement
agreements that contain personal financial information. 
The sealing of court documents is not permitted
solely based on the agreement of the parties "without a specific showing
of serious injury." (Huffy Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 97, 106.) Regarding the serious injury, "[b]road allegations
of harm, bereft of specific examples or articulated reasoning, are
insufficient." (Huffy, supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at p. 106) (quoting
In re Cendant Corp. (3d Cir. 2001) 260
F.3d 183, 194.) 
IV.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves to
seal the following:
1.   
Exhibit
H: United’s emails in November of 2021 to pilots with an approved exemption
from the vaccination policy regarding, among other things, alternative
accommodations.
2.   
Exhibit
M: Notes from Plaintiff’s November 19, 2021 investigatory interview under the
Section 17 disciplinary process outlined in the collective bargaining
agreement.
3.   
Exhibit
N: Notes from Plaintiff’s December
14, 2021 disciplinary hearing under the Section 17 disciplinary process
outlined in the collective bargaining agreement.
4.   
Exhibit
Q: Email correspondence among
United employees in November 2021 divulging their identities and contact
information, as well as discussions about the Section 17 disciplinary process
outlined in the collective bargaining agreement relative to Plaintiff.
5.   
Exhibit
U: Email correspondence among
United employees on January 21, 2022 divulging their identities and contact
information, as well as discussions about Plaintiff’s long term disability
leave status.
6.   
Exhibit
DD: Email correspondence among
United employees in November 2021 divulging their identities and contact
information, as well as discussions about Plaintiff’s accommodation status.
7.   
Exhibit
EE: Email correspondence among
United employees in November 2021 divulging their identities and contact
information, discussing Plaintiff’s status relative to the Section 17
disciplinary process outlined in the collective bargaining agreement, and
attaching a draft Letter of Charge.
8.   
Exhibit
FF: Email correspondence among
United employees in December 2021 divulging their identities and contact
information, and discussing Plaintiff’s status relative to the Section 17
disciplinary process outlined in the collective bargaining agreement.
Defendant argues
it has an overriding interest in maintaining the confidentiality of the above
records because they contain employees’ personal identifying information, including
names, contact information, and vaccination status. Because the records contain
the names and contact information of other United employees not involved in
this litigation, the Court finds that Defendant sufficiently establishes that the
employees’ interest in privacy overrides the public’s interest in accessing the
records. The parties have already agreed that the exhibits above contain
confidential information. Defendant did not file an unredacted version of the
documents because Plaintiff lodged the documents in opposition to Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment. The proposed relief is narrowly tailored because
the parties marked specific exhibits as confidential, rather than seeking to
seal the whole record. 
Defendant’s motion
is granted.
DATED: June
5, 2024
_________________________
Hon. Jill Feeney
Judge of the Superior Court