 Case Number:  BC659059    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  T DOE V DOE BC659059
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  The court finds that the appeal does not
prevent the court from ruling on this motion. 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Motion to Strike Costs
is DENIED and the alternative Motion to Tax Costs is DENIED as to Items 4, 12,
and 16; GRANTED as to Item 5 but only in so far as $1,043.45 is taxed/stricken;
and GRANTED as to Item 11 but only in so far as $3,072.48 is taxed/stricken.
Introduction 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (Defendant) moved to strike and/or tax Plaintiff Jane Doe’s
(Plaintiff) Cost Memo.  Defendant placed
into issue Plaintiff’s Item nos. 4, 5, 11, 12, and 16, in the total amount of
$39,550.80.  
Discussion 
Defendant’s motion to strike the
Cost Memo is unpersuasive because the motion failed to present any argument or
legal authority to support its contention that the entire Cost Memo is
improper.  Defendant’s motion only argued
deficiencies as to the specified cost items. 
Without any argument to strike the entire Cost Memo, the motion is
improper.
The motion to strike the Cost
Memo is DENIED.
In the alternative, Defendant
moved to tax the following specifically identified items.  Defendant argued that $10,903.60 requested in
Item 4 – Deposition Costs of certain witnesses were not necessary and/or not
reasonably necessary to the conduct of litigation because the witnesses were
not called to testify at trial and/or the videotape of the deposition were not
used at trial.  However, Defendant failed
to present legal authority to support their contention that necessity is the
same as “use at trial”.  In fact, the
statute allows for costs that a reasonably necessary to the “conduct of
litigation” and it does not state reasonably necessary for “use at trial”.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1033.5(c)(2).)  Defendant’s argument to tax Item 4 is not
persuasive.
The motion to tax Item 4 is
DENIED.  
Defendant seeks to tax $7,624.90
from Item 5 – Service of Process fees. 
Defendant asserted that service of four witnesses were unreasonable and
not necessary because the witnesses were current or former employees of
Defendant.  However, the fact that the
four witnesses were current/former employees is insufficient to show that the
witnesses would appear, especially for the former employees.  Defendant argued that they agreed to produce
these witnesses at trial.  However,
Defendant failed to produce evidence as to when the agreements were entered
and/or when the notices to appear were served so as to negate the process
server fees.  The costs for service of
process is seen to be reasonable and necessary. 

Defendant asserted that
Plaintiff’s Cost Memo failed to substantiate the service fees for Co-Defendant
Daniel Garcia and Detective Edward Moreno. 
Plaintiff’s opposition submitted the invoices and sufficiently substantiated
the service fees from a registered process server.  However, as for Detective Moreno, it is
unclear why the Detective was required to be served four separate times, when
other means could have been used to secure his appearance.  Service of Detective Moreno four times is
seen to be unreasonable.  Because the
service of Detective Moreno four separate times was unreasonable, the motion to
tax $1,043.45 from Item 5 is GRANTED.
Further, Defendant’s contention
that Mr. Garcia could have simply been served with a Notice to Appear to
dispute the trial appearance subpoena fails to take into consideration that Mr.
Garcia was being evasive.  Defendant’s
argument is not persuasive.
The motion to tax Item 5 is
DENIED in part and GRANTED in part.  Item
5 is reduced by $1,043.45.
Defendant seeks to tax the
entirety of Item 11 – Court reporter fees. 
Plaintiff requested  $10,603.53 in
total.  However, in the opposition,
Plaintiff voluntarily withdrew $1,514.73. 
Plaintiff’s attached invoices show that $1,137.75 from the February 22,
2024 trial proceedings was included twice into the calculations.  The duplicative invoice/amount is stricken
from Item 11.  At minimum, the amount of
$2,652.48 is taxed.  The remaining
balance of $7,951.05 is at issue.  As
argued by Defendant, court reporter fees as established by statute are
recoverable costs.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 1033.5(a)(11).)  Court reporter fees
are established in that Plaintiff requested an official court reporter.  (Govt. Code, sec. 68086.)  Defendant then asserted that costs for rough
drafts, real time, and parking are not covered costs.  However, the invoices did not parcel out each
cost.  Without line item designation of
the charges, Defendant has not met their burden to show how the costs could be
taxed (except for the single line item of $420.00 listed on the invoice for the
February 8, 2024 proceeding.  Based upon
the evidence, the Court can only strike the $420.00 for the rough draft.  
The motion to tax Item 11 is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Item
11 is reduced by $3,072.48.
Defendant sought to tax $7,342.50
from Item 12 – Costs for exhibits, etc. 
The cost, as provided in Plaintiff’s invoices, was for trial technology
used during the trial and Plaintiff’s closing arguments.  The use of the technology was useful and thus
necessary for the conduct of litigation. 
The amount is also seen to be reasonable because the amount is not
excessive.
The motion to tax Item 12 is
DENIED.  
Defendant moved to tax $3,076.30
from Item 16 – Other costs.  Plaintiff
voluntarily withdrew $1,392.45 and asserted that $1,683.85 is substantiated by
the invoices.  Defendant argued that the
“deposition summaries” were vague, ambiguous, and unsupported.  However, Plaintiff’s submission of the
invoices clarifies the requested costs. 
The argument is not persuasive.  
At issue is whether the summaries were necessary to the conduct of
litigation or merely a convenience to Counsel. 
The Court finds that the summaries were necessary and not a convenience
for the fact that they streamlined Plaintiff’s presentation and/or rebuttal of
the case.  
The motion to tax Item 16 is
DENIED.  
  
IT IS SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF
THIS RULING.