 Case Number:  23STCV28851    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  74 Luis Nova, et al. v.
Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc.
 
Defendant’s Motion to
Transfer Venue
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a
landlord-tenant dispute.
            On November 27, 2023, multiple
plaintiffs (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant Reliant Real Estate
Management, Inc. (Defendant). In the complaint, Plaintiffs allege violations of
the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA), invasion of privacy,
and declaratory relief.
            On February 22, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion to transfer this action to the Superior Court of the County
of Orange.
LEGAL
STANDARD
            “[A] motion for change of venue
must satisfy two requirements: (1) it must be shown the action is proper in the
county to which the movant seeks transfer; and (2) it must be shown the county
in which the action was filed was improper under any applicable theory.” (La
Miranda Community Hospital v. Superior Court (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 39, 42.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant argues in part that
Orange County is the proper venue for this action because Defendant is based
there.
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 395.5, a party may sue a corporation in the county where (1) the
contract is made or is to be performed, (2) the obligation or liability arises,
or the breach occurs, or (3) the principal place of business of such corporation
is situated. (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.) 
            In support of its motion, Defendant
demonstrates the proposed transfer of venue would be proper because Defendant’s
principal place of business is in Orange County. Moreover, Defendant’s officers
and directors reside in Orange County. (Valdiva Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4; Request for
Judicial Notice; Ex. A; Ex. B.) 
            Defendant also contends Los Angeles
County is not the proper venue under the other criteria listed in Code of Civil
Procedure section 395.5. First, Plaintiffs’ claims in the complaint do not
arise from a contract. Rather, the claims are based on Defendant’s violation of
a statute (the ICRAA) and common law privacy rights. (Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 27, 36.)
Second, Defendant’s alleged obligation and liability arose in Orange County for
several Plaintiffs. That is, much of Defendant’s alleged misconduct was
connected to rental applications in Orange County. (Complaint, ¶¶ 9-14, 26,
37.) Consequently, Defendant is entitled to transfer venue from Los Angeles
County to Orange County. (See Goosen v. Clifton (1946) 75 Cal.App.2d 44,
49-50; Jhirmack Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d
715, 720 [“[W]hen a complaint states multiple causes of action, a defendant who
is entitled to a change of venue as to one cause of action is entitled to a
transfer of the entire action.”].) Thus, Orange County is the proper venue for
this action.[1]
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
Defendant’s request to transfer this action to Santa Monica must be
heard in Department 1. But Defendant makes no such request here. Plaintiffs
also contend the motion is premature because a motion for change of venue based
on convenience of witnesses and the interest of justice must be made after an
answer is filed. Moreover, Plaintiffs claim Defendant’s motion is defective
because it does not identify the witnesses. However, Defendant does not
exclusively rely on the convenience of witnesses to support the transfer of
venue.
CONCLUSION
                The
court grants Defendant’s motion to transfer venue to Orange County.
            Defendant shall give notice.


