  Case Number:  21STCV41718    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  49 Mark Metzelar v. Testan Law, A Professional CorporationDEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION MOVING PARTY: Defendant Testan Law, A Professional CorporationRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Mark MetzelarSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:This is an employment dispute. Plaintiff Mark Metzelar alleges he worked for Defendant Testan Law as an attorney until his alleged wrongful termination in 2020. Plaintiff alleges he suffered a stroke on or about August 13, 2019. The stroke caused Plaintiff to suffer cognitive difficulties that made it difficult for Plaintiff to spell when writing or typing. This required that Plaintiff return to work with certain restrictions. Upon his return, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants assigned him cases known as “problem files” and failed to reasonably accommodate his disability. Plaintiff alleges Defendant terminated him after learning that his wife assisted him in proofreading and editing emails allegedly protected by HIPAA. Defendant now moves for summary adjudication of the First through Ninth Causes of Action. [FN 1]  Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act is GRANTED.Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Ninth Causes of Action is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION:I. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A defendant has met its burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 854, 858.)  Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.  (§ 437c(o)(2).)II. Objections to EvidencePursuant to CCP § 437c(q), the Court only rules upon objections asserted against evidence which the Court deems to be material to the disposition of this motion, as follows:Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Carlos Huerta numbered 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 23, 27, 28, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, and 47 are OVERRULED. Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Gina Metzelar numbered 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 56, 57, 58, 63, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76 are OVERRULED.Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Plaintiff Mark Metzelar numbered 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94 are OVERRULED.Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Young Ryu numbered 95 and 96 are OVERRULED.III. AnalysisA. First Cause of Action for Disability Discrimination; Second Cause of Action for Age Discrimination; Fourth Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination; Seventh Cause of Action for Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy1. Allegations in the ComplaintFirst, the court must “identify the issues framed by the pleadings.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)The following allegations come from the Complaint. Plaintiff Mark Metzelar, a 59-year old male, worked as an attorney for Defendant Testan Law from 1998 to September 17, 2020. (Compl. ¶ 18.) On or about August 13, 2019, Plaintiff suffered a stroke that left him disabled. (Id. ¶ 20.) After the stroke, Plaintiff took a five and a half month leave from work. (Id.) The stroke caused “slurred speech and cognitive difficulties that made it difficult for Plaintiff to spell when writing or typing.” (Id. ¶ 21.) Plaintiff returned to work on or about February 1, 2020, with limited work hours. (Id. ¶¶ 23, 24.) However, Defendants allegedly “refused to allow Plaintiff to return to his cases and longtime accounts that he was familiar with.” (Id. ¶ 25.) “Rather, Plaintiff was assigned to files and accounts that Plaintiff was entirely unfamiliar with and were known amongst the firm to be ‘problem files’. Defendants refused to allow Plaintiff to work on files of clients (i.e., insurance adjusters) that he had built a good rapport with over the years.” (Id. ¶ 26.) Plaintiff was forced to spend most of his time reviewing the “new and problematic files,” which caused him great stress. (Id. ¶ 27.) Once Plaintiff began working from home during the pandemic, he needed a dictation device to perform his essential duties. (Id. ¶ 29.) Defendants provided Plaintiff with a program that was “severely outdated” that caused Plaintiff technical difficulties. (Id. ¶ 30.) Despite several requests, Defendant never helped resolve these difficulties. (Id.) Plaintiff would send his work to his secretary Carlos for review. (Id. ¶ 33.) However, Carlos was “severely backlogged.” (Id. ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges “[d]ue to the fact that Plaintiff was receiving no help from his secretary, his managers or Defendants’ IT department, his wife, Ms. Metzelar would assist Plaintiff in proofreading his work.” (Id. ¶ 32.) “Specifically, Ms. Metzelar proofread and edited about 15-20 e-mails which she then forwarded to secretary Carlos.” (Id. ¶ 33.) Approximately two weeks before Plaintiff’s termination, secretary Carlos was written up and investigated for the backlog. (Id. ¶ 34.) “Upon searching Carlos’ files, Defendants discovered that Ms. Metzelar was assisting Plaintiff.” (Id.) Then, or about September 17, 2020, Defendants terminated Plaintiff for allegedly violating the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) when he allowed Ms. Metzelar to proofread his e-mails. (Id. ¶ 35.) “This came as a shock to Plaintiff and Ms. Metzelar as they were both given authorization by Defendants for Ms. Metzelar to help Plaintiff with his files at home.” (Id. ¶ 35.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants used this as a pretext to terminate his employment based on his disability and/or age. (Id. ¶¶ 49, 57.)2. Defendant’s Burden“[T]he employer, as the moving party, has the initial burden to present admissible evidence showing either that one or more elements of plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse employment action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.” (Galvan v. Dameron Hosp. Assn. (2019) 37 Cal. App. 5th 549, 559.)When ruling on a motion for summary adjudication in the context of a discrimination claim, “the trial court will be called upon to decide if the plaintiff has met his or her burden of establishing a prima facie case of unlawful discrimination. If the employer presents admissible evidence…that the adverse employment action was based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors, the employer will be entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff produces admissible evidence which raises a triable issue of fact material to the defendant's showing.  (Moore v. Regents of Univ. of California (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 216, 236 [emphasis in original].)  “Whether judgment as a matter of law is appropriate in any particular case will depend on a number of factors. These include the strength of the plaintiff's prima facie case, the probative value of the proof that the employer's explanation is false, and any other evidence that supports the employer's case....[Citation.] However, ‘many employment cases present issues of intent, ... motive, and hostile working environment, issues not determinable on paper. Such cases ... are rarely appropriate for disposition on summary judgment, however liberalized [summary judgment standards may] be.” (Id. [emphasis in original].) In support of its motion for summary adjudication, Defendant argues it terminated Plaintiff’s employment for legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons unrelated to his age or disability. During an investigation, Defendant discovered that Plaintiff’s wife had assisted Plaintiff in working on Testan’s matters. (SSUMF 27-33.) This included various emails from Plaintiff’s wife’s email account to Plaintiff’s assistant. (Id. ¶¶ 35-42.) Testan’s General Counsel, Mr. Costello, concluded that Mrs. Metzelar had been accessing Testan’s legal files, handling Plaintiff’s billings, contacting doctor’s offices and setting up appointments using confidential information and information that Mr. Costello believed was subject to HIPAA protection. (Id. ¶ 44.) Plaintiff admitted that he sent Testan emails to his wife, and that she reviewed them. (Id. ¶¶  47, 63.) Mrs. Metzelar is not an attorney, was not employed by Testan, and never signed a confidentiality agreement with Testan. (Id. ¶¶  45, 46.) Accordingly, Defendant believed that Plaintiff’s decision to allow his wife to work on Testan’s legal files exposed the firm to professional, ethical, and civil liability exposure, and that Plaintiff breached his ethical obligations under the California Rules of Professional Conduct. (Id. ¶¶ 50, 51.) Based on these findings, and with the assistance of outside counsel, Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment. (Id. ¶¶ 53, 54, 55.)Considering this evidence, Defendant has met its initial burden to demonstrate that Plaintiffs termination was based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors. 3. Plaintiff’s BurdenThis shifts the burden to Plaintiff to “offer substantial evidence that the employer's stated nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse action was untrue or pretextual, or evidence the employer acted with a discriminatory animus, or a combination of the two, such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude the employer engaged in intentional discrimination.”  (Foroudi v. Aerospace Corp. (2020) 57 Cal. App. 5th 992, 1007.)  “Although an employee's evidence submitted in opposition to an employer's motion for summary judgment is construed liberally, it ‘remains subject to careful scrutiny.’” [Citation.] (Id. [emphasis added].)  Moreover, the “stronger the employer's showing of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason, the stronger the plaintiff's evidence must be in order to create a reasonable inference of a discriminatory motive.” (Id. at 1008.)Plaintiff notes that he worked for Defendant for 22 years before his termination.  (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 2.) Upon returning to work after his stroke, he faced an entirely new case load. (Id. ¶ 5.) This was contrary to the firm’s standard procedure, in which attorneys returning from leave picked up cases where they left off. (Id.) Plaintiff attests the cases given to him were considered “problem” or “nightmare” files within the firm. (Id.)Carlos Huerta, Plaintiff’s former legal assistant, submits a declaration corroborating these contentions. He states that Defendant assigned Plaintiff “really bad files that no one else wanted,” and refused to give Plaintiff his original files “even after Plaintiff essentially begged to have them returned.” (Huerta Decl. ¶ 8.) Normally, “all attorneys that went out on leave, even for long periods of time, always got their accounts and files back.” (Id.) Defendant eventually gave back Plaintiff one account only after “the insurance carrier and U-Haul demanded Management to do so,” or else threatening to “switch to another law firm.” (Id.) Plaintiff and Huerta conclude that Defendant effectively “set Plaintiff up to fail.”Plaintiff also contends that Defendant was aware that Mrs. Metzelar was helping Plaintiff with his cases long before his termination. In December 2019, while Plaintiff was preparing to return to work, Mrs. Metzelar met with Office Manager Judy Robertson in the lobby of Defendant’s offices. (Gina Metzelar Decl. ¶ 3.) Mrs. Metzelar related Plaintiff’s speech and communication difficulties, and told Ms. Robertson that she was going to help Plaintiff “in any way he needed.” (Id.) Ms. Robertson confirmed that she understood, and told Ms. Metzelar “not to worry.” (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 4.; Huertas Decl. ¶ 16.) On at least one occasion in April 2020, Mrs. Metzelar helped Ms. Robertson decipher Plaintiff’s dictations. (Gina Metzelar Decl. ¶ 8.) Mrs. Metzelar had also communicated several times with Defendant’s IT personnel Louis Shandra about issues with the speech recognition software and the scope of her help (Id. ¶ 8), and regularly delivered case files to and from the Testan office. (Id. ¶ 6.) Thus, Plaintiff contends it was no secret his wife assisted him with his case files. Plaintiff also contends the investigation was a sham. Both Plaintiff and Mrs. Metzelar attest that no one from Defendant ever reached out to them to discuss the investigation. The investigation was limited to the review of emails between Mrs. Metzelar and Mr. Huertas, and lasted only two days. Plaintiff was then terminated by a phone call from Regional Managing Partner Ryan Edwardsen. (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 10.) The phone call lasted less than five minutes. (Id.)Defendant raised concerns of potential HIPAA violations as a ground for Plaintifff’s termination. But Plaintiff contends it is beyond dispute that HIPAA does not apply to workers compensation matters. Plaintiff suggests that Defendant, as a competent law firm purportedly advised by counsel during the termination decision, was well aware of this fact but still used it as a pretext to fire Plaintiff. Plaintiff also challenges Defendant’s conclusions that Plaintiff breached the attorney-client privilege and that Mrs. Metzelar engaged in the unauthorized practice of law. Plaintiff notes that Defendant never reported the alleged violations to its clients or any regulatory authority.Considering the evidence, a reasonable trier of fact could find that Defendant’s asserted explanations for Plaintiff’s termination were pretextual, and that Plaintiff’s disability and age were a substantial motivating factor in this termination. The disputed evidence reveals an abrupt termination after 22 years of satisfactory employment—immediately after Plaintiff suffered from a disability that required reasonable accommodations. Thus, by construing Plaintiff’s evidence liberally and resolving all evidentiary doubts in his favor, this court concludes that Plaintiff has carried his burden to demonstrate a triable dispute of material fact. (Foroudi, 57 Cal. App. 5th at 1007; Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 798, 807 [court must identify “weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer’s proffered legitimate reasons for its action that a reason able factfinder could rationally find them unworthy of credence.”].)This court need that determine whether the conduct by Plaintiff and his wife did or did not violate HIPAA, the attorney-client privilege, or constitute the unauthorized practice of law. The employer’s proffered reasons for the termination need not be “wise or correct.” (Guz, supra, 24 Cal. 4th at 358.) Nonetheless, this debate does evince a question of fact as to whether Defendant held a good faith belief that they did, and whether that belief warranted Plaintiff’s termination. This goes back to whether Defendant’s investigation was merely a pretext.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First, Second, Fourth, and Seventh Causes of Action is DENIED.B. Third Cause of Action for RetaliationThe third cause of action for retaliation is based on the same allegation as the discrimination-based claims. Namely, Defendant allegedly retaliated against Plaintiff for taking medical leave and requesting and utilizing accommodations. The parties treat this claim as essentially derivative of the discrimination-based claims.“[T]o establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer's action.”  (Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal. App. 5th 908, 942.)As discussed in more detail above, Plaintiff has established a triable issue of material fact as to whether there exists a causal link between his termination and disability or request for accommodations.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is DENIED.C. Fifth Cause of Action for Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations; Sixth Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive ProcessThe elements of a failure to accommodate claim are “(1) the plaintiff has a disability under the FEHA, (2) the plaintiff is qualified to perform the essential functions of the position, and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.”  (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California (2009) 173 Cal. App. 4th 986, 1009–10.)“The ‘interactive process' required by the FEHA is an informal process with the employee or the employee's representative, to attempt to identify a reasonable accommodation that will enable the employee to perform the job effectively. [Citation.] Ritualized discussions are not necessarily required.” (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California (2009) 173 Cal. App. 4th 986, 1013.) Where a Defendant knows the offered accommodations are insufficient—even though the employer has offered all of those requested by the employee—it may still trigger [an employer’s] duties to engage in the interactive process and to consider any and all reasonable accommodations.” (Lin v. Kaiser Found. Hosps. (2023) 88 Cal. App. 5th 712, 729.)For its burden, Defendant presents evidence that Plaintiff requested three accommodations: (1) a medical leave of absence, (2) a dictation device, and (3) a microphone. (SSUMF No. 14.) Testan provided each of these requested accommodations. (Id. ¶¶ 4-13, 15). This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue.Plaintiff presents evidence that the “Dragon” software provided to him was outdated and ineffective. (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 6.) He communicated with Defendant’s IT department on numerous occasions over issues with the provided software, but Defendant never considered a better option. (Id.)This presents a triable issue of material fact as to the sufficiency of the accommodations and interactive process. Indeed, based on the timing, a reasonable factfinder could conclude that Plaintiff’s termination demonstrates Defendant’s failure to offer reasonable accommodations or engage in a good faith interactive process. In so finding, this court also notes that “ ‘[b]ecause the FEHA is remedial legislation,” the court “must construe the FEHA broadly, not ... restrictively.” (Vernon v. State of California (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 114, 123.)D. Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights ActDefendant contends the Unruh Civil Rights Act does not apply in the employment context. The California Supreme Court has stated “[t]he Unruh Civil Rights Act has no application to employment discrimination.” (Rojo v. Kliger (1990) 52 Cal. 3d 65, 77.)Plaintiff does not address this cause of action in his opposition, seemingly conceding this point and argument. Therefore, the cause of action fails as a matter of law.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Eighth Cause of Action is GRANTED.E. Ninth Cause of Action for IIEDFinally, Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the Ninth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  “A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant's conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-51, quoting Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001) (internal citations omitted). “Liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress ‘ “does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.”  (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 215, 233.)  Severe emotional distress means “ ‘emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.’”  (Id.)Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s firing was merely a “personnel management activity” that cannot amount to IIED. It is true that a violation of the FEHA “does not necessarily rise to the ‘extreme and outrageous’ standard required for an intentional infliction of emotional distress claim.” (McCoy v. Pac. Mar. Assn. (20130 216 Cal. App. 4th 283, 295.) Nonetheless, under the facts here, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant engaged in “extreme and outrageous conduct” by firing Plaintiff based on his age or disability. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Ninth Cause of Action is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 6, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - The only cause of action asserted in the Complaint that Defendant does not move on is the Tenth for Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel and Payroll Records in violation of Cal. Labor Code section 1198.5. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.