  Case Number:  21STCV20577    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
ANGELINE
  BROWN, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
BEVERLY
  HILLS PROPERTIES, LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV20577
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 06/01/21
Trial
  Date: 10/21/24
 
 



 
Hearing date:              April 16, 2024 
Moving Party:             Defendant Rochelle Sterling, as
Trustee of the Sterling Family Trust (“Moving Defendant”) 
Responding Party:
     Plaintiff Angeline Brown
(“Plaintiff”)
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Set One of
Defendant Rochelle Sterling, as Trustee of the Sterling Family Trust’s Special
Interrogatories and Request for Sanctions
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.  
The motion is DENIED
as it is untimely under CCP § 2030.300(c). 
Background
            This
action arises from the alleged failure to warn residents, visitors, and workers
that they have been exposed to asbestos containing materials found at The
Ambassador Towers, located at 691 Irolo St., Los Angeles, CA 90005 (the “Property”),
and to require warnings pursuant to California Health and Safety Code,
Section 25249.6. (Complaint, ¶ 3.) The Premises is a multi-unit apartment
building complex with over 200 units, covered parking, common areas, and other
amenities. (Complaint, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff Angeline Brown (“Plaintiff”) is a
resident at the Premises and was exposed to Proposition 65 chemicals in her
home, and she seeks to enforce the private attorney general statutes to
effectuate environmental goals via Proposition 65. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) Plaintiff
alleges that due to the acts of Defendants, she has been exposed to asbestos
without prior clear and reasonable warning. (Complaint, ¶ 23.) 
            On
June 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Complaint for declaratory relief, civil
penalties, and injunctive relief against Defendants Beverly Hills Properties,
LLC; Donald T. Sterling Corporation; Rochelle Sterling, as Trustee of The
Sterling Family Trust; The Sterling Family Trust; and Conam Management
Corporation (collectively “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
violation of Section 25249.6 of the Health and Safety Code, failure to provide
clear and reasonable warning under proposition 65 and (2) declaratory relief. 
            After
their demurrer to the Complaint was overruled, Defendants filed an Answer to
the Complaint on May 16, 2022. 
            On
October 10, 2023, Defendant Rochelle Sterling, as Trustee of The Sterling
Family Trust (“Moving Defendant”) filed and served the instant Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request
for Sanctions.[1]
Moving Defendant seeks to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 26, 27, and 28, as well as
sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, in
the amount of $3,000.00. 
            On
April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Moving Defendant’s motion, to
which Moving Defendant replied on April 9, 2024. 
            Initially,
the Court notes that the parties have yet to participate in an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”). 
 
 
 
Legal
Standard
            In
California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in favor of
disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes,
information is discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible
evidence.” (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.)
“Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)
A party to
whom interrogatories are served must respond in writing and under oath by: (1)
an answer containing the information sought to be discovered; (2) an exercise
of the party’s option to produce writings; or (3) an objection to the
particular interrogatory. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210, subds. (a)(1)-(3).)
“Each answer in response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a).) “If an interrogatory cannot
be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (b).) “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to the interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).) 
“If the
answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a
compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party
to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of
preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party
propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party,” then the responding
party may also answer an interrogatory by referring to “the writings from which
the answer may be derived or ascertained” but such “specification shall be in
sufficient in detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify,
as readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may
be ascertained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.) “The responding party shall
then afford to the propounding party a reasonable opportunity to examine,
audit, or inspect these documents and to make copies, compilations, abstracts,
or summaries of them.” (Id.) “If only a part of an interrogatory is
objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be answered.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.240, subd. (a).) “If an objection is made to an
interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the
objection shall be set forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.240, subd. (b).) 
“[A]
responding party may object to an interrogatory that seeks privileged information
by clearly stating the objection and the particular privilege invoked. But the existence
of a document containing privileged information is not privileged.” (Hernandez
v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 293, emphasis in original.)
“Interrogatories may be used to discover the existence of documents in the
other party’s possession.” (Ibid.) “If an interrogatory asks the
responding party to identify a document, an adequate response must include a
description of the document.” (Ibid.) “A broad statement that the
information is available from a mass of documents is insufficient . . . the
other party must be given a reasonable opportunity to examine all pertinent
records.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 784-785, emphasis in original.)
A party
may move for an order compelling a further response to interrogatories where:
(1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an
exercise of the option to produce documents under CCP § 2030.320 is unwarranted
or the required specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) an
objection is without merit or is too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subds. (a)(1)-(3).)  
A party is
entitled “to learn the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter.” (Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3
Cal.5th 531, 541.) “A party may use interrogatories to request the identity and
location of those with knowledge of discoverable matters.” (Ibid.)
“While the party propounding interrogatories may have the burden of filing a
motion to compel if it finds the answers it receives are unsatisfactory, the
burden of justifying any objection and failure to respond remains at all times
with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Ibid.) “[O]ur discovery
system is founded on the understanding that parties use discovery to obtain
names and contact information for possible witnesses at the starting point for
further investigations.” (Id. at p. 544.) “In law and motion practice,
factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
 
Discussion 
            The Meet and Confer Requirement 
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
            In support of the motion, counsel
for Moving Defendant, Theodore Wolter (“Wolter”), provides a declaration
stating the following: on February 23, 2023, his office served on Plaintiff set
one of Moving Defendant’s special interrogatories. (Wolter Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.)
Plaintiff served objection only responses on April 27, 2023. (Wolter Decl., ¶
4; Exh. B.) Counsel sent a meet and confer letter and Plaintiff served
supplemental responses on August 15, 2023, which counsel deemed deficient.
(Wolter Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. D.) Counsel sets forth that he sent additional meet
and confer correspondence and that such efforts were not successful. (Wolter
Decl., ¶ 7-8; Exh. E.) 
             The Special Interrogatories at Issue
            Special Interrogatory (“SROG”) Nos.
7, 10, 13, and 16 requests that Plaintiff state with specificity all facts supporting
certain contentions raised in the Complaint. SROG No. 7 requests all facts
supporting Plaintiff’s contention that individuals have been exposed to
asbestos at the Property without prior clear and reasonable warning. SROG No.
10 requests that Plaintiff state with specificity all facts supporting her
contention that the failure to warn is ongoing. SROG No. 13 requests that
Plaintiff state with specificity all facts supporting her contention that
Moving Defendant knowingly exposed persons to asbestos at the Property. SROG
No. 16 requests that Plaintiff state with specificity all facts to support her
contention that Moving Defendant intentionally exposed persons to asbestos at
the Property. 
            SROG Nos. 8, 11, 14, and 17 ask
Plaintiff to identify persons with knowledge of the facts alleged in the
Complaint. SROG No. 8 asks Plaintiff to identify persons with knowledge of her
contention that individuals have been exposed to asbestos without prior clear
and reasonable warning. SROG No. 11 asks Plaintiff to identify persons
supporting her contention that the failure to warn is ongoing. SROG No. 14 asks
Plaintiff to identify persons with knowledge of the facts supporting her
contention that Moving Defendant knowingly exposed persons to asbestos. SROG
No. 17 requests that Plaintiff identify all persons with knowledge that Moving
Defendant intentionally exposed persons to asbestos at the Property. 
            SROG No. 26 requests information
pertaining to Plaintiff’s actions to investigate exposure to asbestos in
support of the 60-day pre-suit filing requirement. SROG No. 27 requests all
actions Plaintiff undertook to investigate the facts identified in the
Certificate of Merit. SROG No. 28 requests information pertaining to the
investigatory actions of counsel in support of the Certificate of Merit.
            Plaintiff’s Responses and
Supplemental Responses
            In response to SROG Nos. 7, 10, 13,
16, 26, 27, and 28, Plaintiff responded as follows: “Objection. Responding
Party objects on the grounds that the interrogatory is overbroad, vague and
ambiguous. Responding Party further objects on grounds that this interrogatory
seeks premature disclosure of expert opinions and seeks information protected
under attorney-client work product. Discovery is continuous and ongoing, and
Responding Party reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response at
a later time, if necessary.” 
            In response to SROG Nos. 8, 11, 14,
and 17, Plaintiff responded as follows: “Objection. Responding Party objects on
the grounds that the interrogatory is overbroad, vague and ambiguous, violates
privacy rights and calls for speculation. Responding Party further objects on
grounds that this interrogatory seeks premature disclosure of expert opinions
and seeks information protected under attorney-client work product. Discovery
is continuous and ongoing, and Responding Party reserves the right to amend
and/or supplement this response at a later time, if necessary.”
            In her supplemental responses,
Plaintiff referred Moving Defendant to her previous document production and
referred Moving Defendant to 11 different documents. 
            Appropriateness of Compelling
Further Responses to the SROGs at Issue 
            The Court finds that SROGs Nos. 7,
10, 13, 16, 26, 27, and 28, all go toward Moving Defendant defending herself in
this action and are relevant. SROG Nos. 8, 11, 14, and 17 seek the identity of
witnesses pursuant to interrogatory which is proper under Williams v.
Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.
            The Court does not find that the
challenged interrogatories are vague, ambiguous, overbroad, speculative, or violate
privacy rights. The Court also rejects Plaintiff’s objections on the grounds of
premature expert disclosure and attorney work product. Plaintiff has not
justified any of her objections to the SROGs at issue as the declaration of her
counsel, Anum Arshad (“Arshad”), in opposition to the motion does not state any
facts justifying the objections. Plaintiff has therefore not met her burden in
justifying any of her objections to the interrogatories under Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 541. The declaration of Arshad
does not state that any of the interrogatories seeks privileged information or
premature disclosure of expert opinions. 
            The Court also finds that
Plaintiff’s purported supplemental responses to the interrogatories at issue
are insufficient. Plaintiff referring Moving Defendant to a batch of documents
produced in response to a request for production is documents insufficient
under Deyo v.
Kilbourne, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 784-785. 
            The Court, however, cannot grant the
motion despite Plaintiff’s deficient responses. “Unless notice of . . . motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or one or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) Although not raised
by Plaintiff in the opposition, the Court notes that Plaintiff served
supplemental verified responses on August 15, 2023. (Wolter Decl. at Exh. E.)
There is no indication from the declaration of Moving Defendant’s counsel that
the parties mutually agreed in writing to extend the time for a motion to
compel further responses. The time to bring a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) The instant
motion was filed and served on October 10, 2023, which is more than 45 days
after Plaintiff served supplemental verified responses. “[T]he 45-day
limitation . . . is . . . jurisdictional in the sense that it renders the court
without any authority to rule upon [untimely] motions to compel other than to
deny them.” (Ibid.) 
            Thus, the Court DENIES Moving
Defendant’s motion.

It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
April 16, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court


