 Case Number:  23VECV03672    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




TATIANA
  VERSHININA, et al., 
 
Plaintiffs.
 
   v.
 
 
STATE
  BANK OF INDIA,
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03672              107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
Terminating
  Sanctions



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
I. BACKGROUND
On May 13, 2022, plaintiff Tatiana Vershinina (“Vershinina”)
was robbed by a third party while she was depositing cash at a branch of
defendant State Bank of India (“Defendant”) on behalf of plaintiff Sunoil
Retail Group (“Sunoil” and, together with Vershinina, “Plaintiffs” and
Plaintiffs, together with Defendant, “Parties”).
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on August 22, 2023, stating
claims for (1) negligence, (2) premise liability, (3) unsafe conditions, and
(4) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
On February 13, 2024, this court granted Plaintiffs’ former
counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
 
Plaintiffs failed
to appear at the March 14, 2024 case management conference in this case,
prompting this court to set a hearing for April 11, 2024 for an order to show
cause why sanctions or dismissal of the entire action should not be imposed for
failure to prosecute by Plaintiffs. (03/14/2024 Minute Order) Plaintiffs were
ordered to appear at this hearing. (Ibid.) On April 11, 2024, Plaintiffs failed
to appear and thereby violated this court’s March 14 court order. (04/11/2024
Minute Order.)
 
On April 29, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant motion for terminating sanctions (the “Motion”),
which Plaintiffs opposed on May 17, 2024.
 
II. LEGAL STANDARD
 
A court “may in
its discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this
article on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to
the court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 583.410, subd. (a).) California Code of Civil Procedure section 583.420
sets out the conditions without which a court “may not dismiss an action
pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution,” including that “[t]he
action is not brought to trial within the following times: … [t]wo
years after the action is commenced against the defendant if the Judicial
Council by rule adopted pursuant to Section 583.410 so prescribes for
the court.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1340, subdivision (a) reads, “[t]he
court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant may dismiss an action
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410–583.430 for delay in prosecution
if the action has not been brought to trial or conditionally settled within two
years after the action was commenced against the defendant.”
 
“Additionally, the
statutes recognize that the courts have the inherent authority to dismiss an
action.” (Del Junco v. Hufnagel (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 789, 798, citing
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 581, subd. (m) and § 583.150.) “[B]ecause
delay in prosecution interferes with the orderly process of litigation and may
make a fair trial unlikely, California courts have inherent power
to dismiss civil cases for unreasonable, inexcusable delay in
prosecution.” (Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155
Cal.App.4th 736, 758.) “When a plaintiff's deliberate and egregious misconduct
in the course of the litigation renders any sanction short
of dismissal inadequate to protect the fairness of the trial,
California courts necessarily have the power to preserve their integrity
by dismissing the action.” (Id. at 762.) “The essential
requirement is to calibrate the sanction to the wrong. Whether the misconduct
violates a court order is relevant to the exercise of inherent power,
but it does not define the boundary of the power.” (Id. at 763.) “The
decision whether to exercise the inherent power
to dismiss requires consideration of all relevant circumstances,
including the nature of the misconduct (which must be deliberate and egregious,
but may or may not violate a prior court order), the strong preference for
adjudicating claims on the merits, the integrity of the court as an institution
of justice, the effect of the misconduct on a fair resolution of the case, and
the availability of other sanctions to cure the harm.” (Id. at 764.) 
 
“Trial courts
should only exercise this authority in extreme situations, such as when the
conduct was clear and deliberate, where no lesser alternatives would remedy the
situation, the fault lies with the client and not the attorney, and when
the court issues a directive that the party fails to obey.” (Del Junco v.
Hufnagel, supra, at 798, internal citations omitted.) “[D]ismissal is always a
drastic remedy to be employed only in the rarest of
circumstances.” (Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. Walt Disney Co., supra,
at 764, emphasis original.) For example, the court could dismiss an action
where the plaintiff where plaintiff filed petition, failed even to
serve it on state, was so dilatory in his prosecution of it that
superior court consigned file to its archives, and offered no excuse for
his failure to take slightest action to have petition determined for
over five years. (Binyon v. State of California (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
952, 957.)
 
The court may impose a terminating sanction by an order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(d)(1).) “The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant moves “for
an order dismissing this action with prejudice on the grounds that [Plaintiffs]
have withdrawn from their case by failure to prosecute.” (Notice of Motion p.
2.) Defendant moves “alternatively… for an order of terminating sanctions
dismissing this action with prejudice pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2023.10 et seq. on grounds that Plaintiffs violated the
Court’s order to appear at the April 11 hearing.” (Ibid.) 
 
This lawsuit has
existed for less than a year and a proof of service of the Complaint was filed.
This court therefore does not have authority to dismiss it for failure to
prosecute under California Code of Civil Procedure section 583.410, subd. (a).
 
This court has
inherent powers to dismiss this action for failure to prosecute if such failure
is deliberate and egregious and other sanctions would not adequately protect
the fairness of the action to Defendant. In opposition to the Motion,
Plaintiffs submit a declaration by their attorney (the "Lukyanov
Declaration") stating that although her law firm withdrew as Plaintiffs’
counsel in February, it had since recently been re-hired to represent
Plaintiffs in this case. (Lukyanov Decl. ¶¶ 2, 5.) The Lukyanov
Declaration observes that Plaintiffs’ failures to appear at case management
conferences or hearings occurred only while Plaintiffs were unrepresented by
counsel. (Id. at ¶¶ 3–4.) It also states that “[t]he delay in prosecution
of this case was only about four (4) months long and was caused by
circumstances beyond Plaintiffs’ control.” (Id. at ¶ 6.) Given these facts
and changes circumstances, as well as the fact that Plaintiffs have only
violated one court order, we fail to find that Plaintiffs’ failures to
prosecute their case or to appear when necessary were deliberate and egregious.
We therefore decline to dismiss this action under our inherent powers.
 
Terminating
sanctions are authorized by California Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.030, subdivision (d)(1) when the sanctioned party has engaged in the
misuse of the discovery process. California Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.010 provides examples of misuses of the discovery process, which include disobeying
a court order to provide discovery. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.10, subd.
(g).)
 
The court order
that Plaintiffs violated in this case by failing to appear at the April 11
hearing did not relate to discovery. California Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.10, et seq., which Defendant cites in support of its motion for
terminating sanctions, is therefore inapplicable to the instant case. Seeing no
statutory grounds for terminating sanctions, this court denies Defendant’s
motion for terminating sanctions.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
Dated:  May 22, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court