 Case Number:  24VECV00069    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




JASON WALKER, et al., 
 
Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
SEPULVEDA
  LANDMARK APTS., LLC, et al.,
 
Defendants.


 
 
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  24VECV00069                      107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) Demurrer
  (2)motion to strike 
 


 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
(1)
Overruled
 
(2) Granted
only as to paragraphs 44 and 70 without leave to amend; denied as to the other
portions of the Complaint
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
On February 2,
2022, plaintiffs Jason Walker (“Walker”) and Katherine High (“High” and, together
with Walker, “Plaintiffs”) entered a lease agreement with defendant Moss
Management Services, Inc. (“Moss”), an agent for defendant Sepulveda Landmark
Apts., LLC (“Sepulveda” and, together with Moss, “Defendants” and Defendants,
together with Plaintiffs, “Parties”), for the lease of a certain residential
real property (the “Property”). (Complaint pp. 1–3.) Over the following few
months, the Property became infested with cockroaches, which pest infestation
was not abated for at least a year and a half. (Id. at pp. 3–5.) During
the infestation, on May 19, 2023, an individual entered the Property without
Defendants having been provided with advanced notice of any entry. (Id. at p.
4.)
 
On January 5,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action
for (1) breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (2) tortious breach of
the implied warranty of habitability, (3) negligence, (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (5) private nuisance, (6) unlawful business
practices under Business & Professions Code section 17200, et seq, and (7)
violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code Article 5.3.
 
On April 16 and
18, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the Complaint and a
motion to strike (the “Motion to Strike”) portions of the Complaint. On May 2,
2024, Plaintiffs opposed the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike, and on May 14,
2024, Defendants replied to Plaintiffs’ oppositions.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).) 
¿¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not filed a Proof of Service of the Complaint in this
case. We therefore cannot determine if the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike
are timely. The Demurrer, the Motion to Strike, both oppositions, and both
replies are timely as against the hearing date.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a)
and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the
motion to strike. Each section requires that such meet and confer be done “in
person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5,
subd. (a).) 
 
Defendants attach to each of the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike a
declaration by their counsel, in which she states that she met and conferred
with Plaintiffs’ counsel over the phone on April 11, 2024 but that they were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike.
(Basria Decl. ¶ 7.) We are therefore satisfied that this requirement has
been met.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The Demurrer

 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10, subd. (a)(1).) Under this
standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather
than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 550.)¿ 
 
Defendants demur
to the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
the cause of action under California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(e). (Notice of Demurrer p. 3; Demurrer p. 5.) 
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) the
defendant engages in extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent to
cause, or with reckless disregard for the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff suffers extreme or severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the plaintiff's extreme or severe emotional distress. Outrageous
conduct is conduct that is intentional or reckless and so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of decency in a civilized community. The defendant's conduct must be
directed to the plaintiff, but malicious or evil purpose is not essential to
liability. Whether conduct is outrageous is usually a question of fact.” (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 203, citing Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal
citations omitted.) “‘Recklessness’ means the deliberate disregard of
the high degree of probability that an injury will occur. It rises to the
level of a conscious choice of a course of action with knowledge of the serious
danger to others.” (Samantha B. v. Aurora Vista Del Mar, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 85, 99.) “In order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must
allege with ‘great specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) 
 
In Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 912–13, 922, a residential tenant
stated a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress against her
landlord sufficient to overcome a demurrer when she alleged that the landlord
was aware of substandard habitability conditions, including leaking sewage,
defective electrical wiring, and a “heavy” cockroach infestation; that these
conditions had caused the county health department to issue a notice to vacate
and demolish the property; and that the landlord failed to correct the
conditions after a reasonable time. The court in Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra,
at 922, stated that whether “the landlord’s acts are extreme and outrageous and
result in severe mental distress” “presents a factual question [so that] it
cannot be said as a matter of law that appellant has not stated a cause of
action.” 
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs fail to plead all the elements of a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress because the Complaint does not
plead outrageous conduct. (Demurrer p. 6.) Defendants argue that Complaint
merely “allege[s] in a conclusory fashion that Defendants' conduct was
intentional” and is “devoid of any facts showing that Defendants specifically
intended to cause harm to Plaintiffs or engaged in any particular acts that
were reckless.” (Ibid.)
 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiffs plead that Plaintiffs first alerted Moss to the cockroach
infestation on July 19, 2022. (Complaint p. 4.) Plaintiffs made at least one
additional subsequent complaint to Moss about the infestation on November 15,
2022. (Ibid.) After Plaintiffs lodged a complaint with the County of Los
Angeles Department of Public Health (“LADPH”), Defendants were given “a notice
to eradicate the cockroach infestation on or before October 6, 2023,” and
following LADPH’s inspection of the Property on October 13, 2023, Defendants
were issued a notice of violation. (Id. at p. 5.) Plaintiffs made an additional
subsequent complaint to Moss about the infestation on November 3, 2023. (Ibid.)
Additionally, Plaintiff pleads on information and belief that “other past and
current tenants of the [Property] have repeatedly complained to Defendants
about the illegal and substandard condition of the [Property].” (Id. at pp.
5–6.)
 
Thus, the
Complaint includes allegations that Defendants were made aware of the cockroach
infestation, of its severity, and of its ongoing nature. Defendants point out
that “Plaintiffs have failed to allege any facts showing that Defendants knew
of the habitability issues prior to the initial notice provided in July 19,
2022.” (Demurrer p. 6.) We agree that the Complaint does not allege Defendants
had any knowledge of the infestation before July 19, 2022. However, the
Complaint alleges that the infestation persisted long after Defendants were
alerted to the infestation on July 19, 2022; that Plaintiffs “waited 5 months
to address the issue with [Moss]” while attempting to resolve the infestation
themselves is irrelevant. (Ibid.) Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs also
inconsistently followed up with [Moss] and provided notices several months
apart such that it cannot be said that Defendants knew of the ongoing problem
or intentionally allowed it to persist.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs plead that they
e-mailed Moss on May 19, 2023 inquiring about the individual who had entered
the Property and not performed any pest control services earlier that day.
(Complaint p. 4.) Defendants were thus informed that no pest control services
had been conducted on the Property at that time. Defendants had knowledge that
a cockroach infestation existed at the Property and that no pest control
services had been conducted in response to it; it reasonably follows that
Defendants were aware that the infestation, having not been treated in any way,
persisted. Plaintiffs are not required to have repeatedly notified Defendants
about the same habitability problem a certain number of times over a certain
time period for Defendants to have knowledge of the problem. A single
notification, followed by Defendants’ inaction, is sufficient. That Defendants
were subsequently periodically reminded by Plaintiffs of the ongoing
infestation and given notices by LADPH only adds to Defendants’ knowledge of
the existence, severity, and ongoing nature of the problem. 
 
Like the tenants
in Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 912–13,
922, Plaintiffs here adequately state a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress to overcome a demurrer by alleging that their
landlord, Defendants, knew of the substandard conditions in which Plaintiffs
were living, received a notice from the county public health department about
conditions at the Property, and yet failed to correct the conditions after a
reasonable amount of time. And, following Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra,
at 922, whether Defendants’ conduct in doing so was extreme and outrageous so
as to cause Plaintiffs’ emotional distress is a question of fact, but we cannot
find here that Plaintiffs have failed to state the cause of action as a matter
of law.
 
Accordingly, the
Demurrer is OVERRULED,.
 

The Motion to
     Strike

 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd.
(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Id. at § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
at § 437.)
 
Defendants move to strike the Complaint’s prayers for
punitive and exemplary damages and certain allegations of the Complaint that
relate to its prayers for punitive and exemplary damages. (Notice of Motion pp.
2–3.)
 
A motion to strike is
appropriate to attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.¿In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Clausen v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations omitted).) “Further, even though
certain language pleads ultimate facts or conclusions of law, such language
when read in context with the facts alleged as to defendants' conduct may
adequately plead the evil motive requisite to recovery of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge
v. Superior Court (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510.)¿ 
¿ 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages
“[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice….”¿
(Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In order to justify an award of punitive¿damages, the
defendant must be guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the
intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations omitted).) “[M]alice in fact is required
rather than implied malice.¿However, malice does not require actual intent to
harm.¿Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations
omitted).) “In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the
plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his¿conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895–96.)¿¿ 
¿ 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not
be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves, supra at 166.) And,
“conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct as intentional, wilful and
fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of “oppression, fraud, or
malice, express or implied,” within the meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances
of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” (Grieves, supra at 166; Today’s IV,
Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra
at 1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the operative complaint set forth
the elements as stated in¿section 3294, it must include¿specific¿factual
allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious to support a claim for¿punitive¿damages.”].)¿ 
 
In Stoiber v.
Honeychuck, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 920, a residential tenant “pleaded
sufficient facts to support her prayer for exemplary damages” when her
complaint both “alleged that defendant had actual knowledge of defective
conditions in the premises including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring,
falling ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous
conditions” and “alleged that defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance,… acted
with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to
plaintiff, and their conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’” And, like
the plaintiff in Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903
at 920, Plaintiffs here plead that Defendants had actual knowledge of the
cockroach infestation and that “Defendants' conduct described above was
willful, wanton, intentional, despicable, malicious and initiated with malice
and with the intent to knowingly take advantage of, oppress, and injure
Plaintiffs. Defendants at all times acted with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights of safety of Plaintiffs. Defendants were at all times
aware that there was a high probability that their intentional and/or negligent
failure to repair and maintain the Subject Property would injure Plaintiffs and
cause them emotional distress and other damages.”
 
Defendants argue
that punitive damages are not properly pled by the allegations of the Complaint
because “it cannot be said that, on its face, Defendants knew the cockroach
infestation was ongoing and intentionally allowed it to persist” and “Plaintiffs'
allegations with respect to punitive damages lack specificity, and are instead
merely conclusory and speculative.” (Reply p. 2.) However, as we explain above
in our discussion of the Demurrer, we find that Plaintiffs plead that
Defendants were notified of the existence of the cockroach infestation by July
19, 2022 and that subsequent complaints by Plaintiffs and the notices from
LADPH further notified Defendants that the infestation was severe and ongoing.
These allegations are sufficient to allege that Defendants had actual knowledge
of the cockroach infestation. Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants, in
response, largely either provided false assurances or ignored Plaintiffs for
months. (Complaint pp. 4–5.) 
 
Although
Defendants emphasize Plaintiffs’ delay in first alerting Defendants to the
infestation while they attempted to abate the infestation themselves before
July 19, 2022, Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants’ first attempt to treat
the Property for pests did not occur until May 19, 2023, ten months later, and
that although Defendants were notified that the pest control treatment did not
take place, they did not re-attempt to treat the Property for pests until after
Defendants were issued a notice by LADPH, on October 19, 2023, fifteen months
after being notified of the infestation. We are therefore unpersuaded by
Defendants’ point about the five-month delay before July 19, 2024, since we may
conclude from Defendants’ inaction over the subsequent fifteen months that
Plaintiffs have pled in the Complaint that Defendants permitted the infestation
to continue despite having knowledge of it.
 
In the Motion to
Strike, Defendants observe that “[t]here are few cases where punitive damages,
based on a conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others are
established where no intentional torts are alleged.” (Motion p. 7.) They argue
“[n]otably, these allegations arise to no more than negligence, if even at all,
without any facts describing despicable conduct by the Defendants” and “[a]s an
initial matter, punitive damages do not apply to negligence based causes of
action.” (Ibid.) 
 
Courts have held
that “to establish malice, it is not sufficient to show only that the
defendant's conduct was negligent, grossly negligent or even
reckless. There must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the
probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff's interests and deliberately
failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan
v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155, internal citations
omitted.) “Conduct which may be characterized as unreasonable, negligent,
grossly negligent or reckless does not satisfy the highly culpable
state of mind warranting punitive damages. Conduct which
warrants punitive damages must be of such severity or shocking
character as warrants the same treatment as accorded to willful
misconduct—conduct in which defendant intends to cause harm.”
(Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 10, emphasis
original.) 
 
The Complaint
prays for punitive damages for only its second cause of action for tortious
breach of the warranty of habitability, its third cause of action for
negligence, its fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and its fifth cause of action for private nuisance. Of these, only
the third cause of action for negligence is a negligence-based cause of action.
“A nuisance may be either a negligent or an intentional tort. If the latter,
then exemplary damages are recoverable.” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra,
101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 920.) Because punitive damages are sought on the fifth
cause of action for private nuisance, it follows that the Complaint brings it
as an intentional tort. We agree, however, that the third cause of action for
negligence cannot support the recovery of punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, this
court GRANTS the Motion to Strike only as to paragraphs 44 and 70 of the
Complaint and DENIES the Motion to Strike as to the other portions of the
Complaint.
 

Leave to
     Amend

 
“Where the defect raised by a¿motion¿to¿strike¿or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave¿to¿amend¿is routinely
and¿liberally¿granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) “[An order granting a motion to strike] is analogous
to an order sustaining a demurrer.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend
the complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed
as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is
incapable of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a
complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to
amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.) 
 
Although Plaintiff has not amended the Complaint in this
case, the only portion of the Complaint which we strike is the prayer for
punitive damages only as they are sought by the third cause of action for
negligence. Because causes of action for negligence cannot support punitive
damages, we do not see any possible amendment that could cure this defect. 
 
Accordingly, this court does not grant leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:             
May 22, 2024                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court