  Case Number:  22VECV01968    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
AYUS & CO, INC, A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
R
  BROTHERS, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   22VECV01968                 107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
Demurrer
  - with Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10)
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Ayus
& Co, Inc (“Plaintiff”) and defendant R Brothers, Inc. (“Defendant” and,
together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) are both licensed contractors. In 2017,
2018, and 2019, Defendant hired Plaintiff as a subcontractor to do plumbing
work at three schools for contracts Defendant had with the Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”). Plaintiff performed this plumbing work, but
Defendant did not pay Plaintiff.
 
On November 10,
2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”). On January 11, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”), which dismissed a former
defendant. 
 
On May 31 and June
1, 2023, Defendant demurred to the FAC and moved to strike portions of the FAC.
On August 8, 2023, this court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC with
leave to amend and granted part of Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the
FAC.
 
On September 5,
2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (the “SAC”), which alleges
causes of action for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of oral
agreement, (3) common count for work, labor, and services rendered—agreed
price, (4) common count for work, labor, and services rendered—reasonable
value, (5) breach of written contract, (6) common count for work, labor, and
services rendered—agreed price, (7) common count for work, labor, and services
rendered—reasonable value, (8) breach of written contract, (9) common count for
work, labor, and services rendered—agreed price, and (10) common count for
work, labor, and services rendered—reasonable value.
 
On April 19, 2024,
Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the SAC and a motion to strike
(the “Motion to Strike”) portions of the SAC. On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff opposed
the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike, and five days later, Defendant replied
to Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).) 
¿¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not filed a Proof of Service of the Complaint in this
case. We therefore cannot determine if the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike
are timely brought. The Demurrer, the Motion to Strike, the opposition, and
both replies were timely filed as against the hearing date.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a)
and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the
motion to strike. Each section requires that such meet and confer be done “in
person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5,
subd. (a).) 
 
Defendant submits with each of the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike a
declaration by its counsel which confirms that he and Plaintiff’s counsel “engaged
in a telephonic meet and confer concerning the basis for Defendant’s proposed
demurrer and motion to strike.” (Wasserman Decl. ¶ 5.) We are therefore
satisfied that this requirement has been met.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The Demurrer

 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10, subd. (a)(1).) Under this
standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather
than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 550.)¿ 
 
1.     
The Statute of Limitations
 
Plaintiff contends
that the second through tenth causes of action are barred by the statute of
limitations. (Demurrer p. 10.) Parties disagree as to when Plaintiff’s causes
of action accrued.
 
“A complaint
showing on its face the cause of action is barred by
the statute of limitations is subject to general demurrer.”
(Iverson, Yoakum, Papiano & Hatch v. Berwald (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
990, 995.)
 
An action upon a
written contract must be brought within four years. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 337, subd. (a).) An action upon an oral contract must be brought within
two years (Id. at § 339, subd. (1).) “[W]here services have
been rendered under a contract which is unenforceable because not in
writing, an action generally will lie upon a common count for
quantum meruit. The statute of limitations for quantum
meruit claims is two years.” (Iverson, Yoakum, Papiano & Hatch v.
Berwald, supra, 76 Cal.App.4th 990 at 996.) Emergency¿Rule¿9¿was
adopted by the Judicial Council during the COVID-19 pandemic and, as amended,
reads: “(a) Tolling statutes of limitations over 180 days [¶] Notwithstanding
any other law, the statutes of limitations and repose for civil causes of
action that exceed 180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1,
2020.” (People v. Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc.¿(2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 879, 885.)
 
“Generally speaking, a cause of action accrues at the time
when the cause of action is complete with all of its elements.” (Fox v.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 34 Cal.4th 787, 806.) “The elements of
a breach of oral contract claim are the same as those for
a breach of written contract: a contract; its performance
or excuse for nonperformance; breach; and damages.” (Stockton Mortgage,
Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 453.) “Where
a common count for services rendered alleges they
were performed at the request of defendants, that they promised to pay for them
and failed to do so, such count is good.” (Haggerty v. Warner
(1953) 115 Cal.App.2d 468, 475.)
 
For both the causes of action for breach of contract, written
or oral, and the common count causes of action for work, labor, and
services rendered, the causes of action would not have been complete with all
their elements until, as alleged, Defendant failed to pay Plaintiff and thereby
breached the contract or reneged on its earlier promise to compensate
Plaintiff. Therefore, the causes of action in the Complaint all accrued upon
Defendant’s alleged failure to pay Plaintiff when such payment became due. They
did not accrue and the statutes of limitations did not begin to run when the
contracts between Parties were first entered, as Defendant argues. (Demurrer
pp. 10–11.) 
 
2.     
The First, Fifth, and Eighth Causes of Action for
Breach of Written Contract
 
“[T]he elements of
a cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811, 821.) The SAC pleads each of these elements and therefore states facts
sufficient to constitute the cause of action.
 
Defendant argues
that “[p]ursuant to the contracts attached to the SAC, Plaintiff, as
subcontractor could not be paid for any amount for which [Defendant] was not
paid.” (Demurrer p. 12.) The SAC attaches copies of the three subcontracting
agreements on which the first, fifth, and eighth causes of action for breach of
a written contract are brought. (SAC Exh. A, Exh. B, Exh. C.) Each such
subcontracting agreement includes conditions on payments from Defendant to
Plaintiff becoming due, among other conditions, that state that Defendant’s
obligations to pay Plaintiff do not arise until after either Defendant is paid
for work Plaintiff performed or Defendant received final payment from LAUSD. (Ibid.)
“A pay if paid provision makes payment by the owner to the
general contractor a condition precedent to the general contractor's
obligation to pay the subcontractor for work
the subcontractor has performed.” (Wm. R. Clarke Corp. v. Safeco
Ins. Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 882, 885.) “Pay if paid” provisions in
construction subcontracts are unenforceable, even if the contract is for a school
public works. (Id. at 890; Capitol Steep Fabricators, Inc. v. Mega
Construction Co. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1058, 1060–62.) These
provisions of the three subcontracting agreements between Parties are therefore
unenforceable, and Plaintiff need not plead that they have been satisfied.
 
Defendant further
argues that the amounts of damages Plaintiff seeks by each of the causes of
action for breach of written contract include “certain lost profits and/or
progress payments and/or retention payment and/or change order work,” but that “without
sufficient allegations concerning the change orders, it is impossible to
understand the legal effect of the agreements, written and oral, sued upon in
the SAC.” (Demurrer pp. 12–13.) Defendant emphasizes its confusion about
whether Plaintiff is seeking amounts due and owing under submitted change
orders or under approved change orders. (Ibid.) Parties agree that
change orders for each of the three subcontracting agreements exist, but
Plaintiff rebuts that the attached subcontracting agreements “state all the
material terms of the agreements between [Plaintiff and Defendant].”
(Opposition p. 5.)
 
“Demurrers for
uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery can be used for
clarification, and apply where defendants cannot reasonably determine what
issues or claims are stated. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Against a demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to “set
forth in his complaint the essential facts of his case with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant of the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Elder
v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858.) For a written
contract, the plaintiff may plead it “by its terms—set out verbatim in the
complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference—or by its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489, abrogated on other grounds in Freeman
v. Quicken Loans Inc. (2012) 566 U.S. 624.) To plead a contract’s legal
effect, the plaintiff’s pleading must include “the substance of its relevant
terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the
instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.” (Ibid.) Thus, although a contract may be set out verbatim
in its entirety in a pleading, it need not be so long as its legal effect is
pleaded.
 
We agree that
Plaintiff that even if subsequent change orders are missing, the SAC pleads the
legal effect of the three subcontracting agreements by attaching the base
agreements so that copies of the change orders are not necessary for Defendant
to understand what issues are being raised by these causes of action and what
claims are being stated against it. The further specificity that Defendant
seeks, such as exactly which change orders are being included in Plaintiff’s
calculation of damages, may be obtained through discovery.
 
Additionally, demurrers
do not lie as to only parts of causes of action where some valid claim
is alleged. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119 [“A demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action
to be sustained.”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Each breach of written contract cause of
action also seeks damages for progress payments, which Plaintiff alleges it is
owed per the terms of the attached base agreements. This portion of each cause
of action states an intelligible cause of action and the entire cause of action
must therefore survive a demurrer.
 
3.     
The Second Cause of Action for Breach of Oral Contract
 
Defendant contends
that because the SAC’s second cause of action for breach of oral contract “re-alleges
and incorporates allegations that Plaintiff entered into a written contract”
from earlier in the SAC, it is unclear if the second cause of action is
asserting a cause of action on the written contract. (Demurrer p. 14.) We
disagree. The SAC is clear that this cause of action is being argued in the
alternative for one of its causes of action for breach of written agreement and
that the SAC alleges that Parties orally agreed to written terms, which are set
out in the unsigned subcontracting agreement. (SAC pp. 4–5.)
 
Defendant argues
that this cause of action fails to plead the material terms of the oral
agreement. (Demurrer p. 14.) We disagree for the same reason. The SAC alleges
that Parties orally agreed to written terms, which are set out in the unsigned
subcontracting agreement. (SAC pp. 4–5.) The SAC thus pleads the material terms
of the oral agreement. 
 
4.     
The Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Ninth, and Tenth
Common Count Causes of Action for Work, Labor, and Services Rendered
 
“When a common
count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a
specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is
demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1560.)
 
Defendant contends
that these common counts causes of action are subject to demurrer because the
breach of contract causes of action, which they seek the same recovery as, are
subject to demurrer. However, we overrule the Demurrer as to the breach of contract
causes of action, and therefore also overrule the Demurrer as to these causes
of action.
 
Accordingly, the
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 

The Motion to
     Strike

 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd.
(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Id. at § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
at § 437.)¿“[J]udges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) 
 
Defendant moves to
strike each of the SAC’s causes of action in its entirety as well as each of
the SAC’s prayers for relief in its entirety. (Notice of Motion pp. 2–4.) It
does so on the same grounds and supported by the same arguments it makes in the
Demurrer, and our findings and response are the same to each such argument. 
 
Accordingly, the
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
Dated:  May 22,
2024                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                     Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                     Judge of the Superior Court