 Case Number:  23STCV26650    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  49 Tentative Ruling Judge Randolph M. Hammock,
Department 49  HEARING DATE:     December
16, 2024                            TRIAL
DATE:  Not set.                                                           CASE:                         Miss Josanne Acosta v. Miss Robyn ‘Rihanna Honduras’ Fenty CASE NO.:                 23STCV26650 



















 (1)  
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT (2)  
ORDER TO
SHOW CAUSE RE: DISMISSAL WITH PREJUDICE IN ACCORDANCE WITH HUANG V. HANKS
(2018) 23 CAL. APP. 5TH 179

 MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Robyn Fenty, incorrectly sued as Miss Robyn ‘Rihanna Honduras’ Fenty RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Josanne Acosta CASE
HISTORY:·        
10/31/2023: Complaint filed. STATEMENT OF
MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:             Plaintiff Josanne Acosta, in pro per, brings this action
against Defendant Robyn Fenty, professionally known as the musical artist and
business-woman Rihanna. Plaintiff alleges that in 2014, she advised Defendant
on how to start her “Fenty” business. Defendant has allegedly sold the
business, and Plaintiff now moves to recover payment for the services and
guidance provide to Defendant. Plaintiff asserts one cause of action for breach
of contract.  Defendant Fenty now demurrers to the Complaint. Plaintiff
opposed.  On October 31, 2024, the Court also set an OSC Re: dismissal
with prejudice in accordance with Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal. App. 5th
179. The OSC is addressed herein. TENTATIVE
RULING: Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND. The OSC re: dismissal is GRANTED. The case is ordered
DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE pursuant to Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal. App.
5th 179.  Defendant is ordered to give notice. DISCUSSION: Demurrer I.                   
Meet and
Confer The Declaration of Attorney Carla M.
Wirtschafter reflects that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. II.                
Legal
Standard A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
(SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902,
905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.) 
The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint,
as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)          III.             
Analysis Defendant Fenty demurrers to the Complaint on the grounds it
is uncertain the fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. By form complaint, Plaintiff alleges that in 2014 pursuant
to an oral agreement, she advised Defendant Fenty—known professionally as
Rihanna—“on how to start a business, which included a proposed logo design,
business name, marketing strategies and other inclusions.” (Compl., BC-1.)
Defendant told Plaintiff that “that the money will be paid
to her for her services and additionally for her recommendation to His Majesty
the King Philip Mountbatten and Prince Charles Windsor who endorsed her
business proposal and recommended her to some American businessmen who had the
knowledge of the American business system and whom would best be able to help her
set up in America.” (Id., BC-2.)  Plaintiff “has been informed via an article on the internet
that [Defendant] has sold the Fenty business,” and though “it could be a rumour
[sic], nonetheless Miss Acosta would like to take the opportunity to have her
sum of money for her services and guidance issued to her at the earliest as
ordered by the court of San Francisco for their protection and via legal
recording of the act and the provision of a safe and conducive business
atmosphere to issue the transaction.” (Id., BC-4.)  Plaintiff also alleges that “defendant & plaintiff have
both never been given a safe opportunity finalize all payments to the Plaintiff”
and that “Defendant has indicated to the Plaintiff during a brief encounter in
2014 that she has HIV/AIDS and has indicated for the Plaintiff to stay away
from her in case she gives her the disease.” (Id. ¶¶ 8, 9.) On these
allegations, Plaintiff asserts one cause of action for breach of oral contract.
 Plaintiff contends in her “Response to the Demurrer” that
she is the great-grandaughter of Queen Victoria and inherited £539 million
dollars upon her death. (Plaintiff’s Response to Demurrer, p. 2.)[1]
Plaintiff also recounts visits from her purported grandfather, King Phillip,
with whom she left her inheritance. (Id.) Plaintiff suggests King
Phillip and entertainer Justin Timberlake assisted Plaintiff in coordinating
the business arrangement with Rihanna. (Id.) Plaintiff also states that
her former husband, Marshall Mathers,[2]
provided “gambling chips” to Defendant worth “trillions” of dollars. (Id.,
p. 5.) In support of the demurrer, Defendant first argues the
allegations “are so uncertain and unintelligible that it is unclear what
Plaintiff is even contending.” (Dem. 3: 26-7.)  “The elements of a breach of oral contract
claim are the same as those for a breach of written contract: a contract; its
performance or excuse for nonperformance; breach; and damages.” (Stockton
Mortg., Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal. App. 4th 437, 453.) Like written
contracts, an oral contract requires mutual assent and terms specific enough to
be enforced. (In re Marriage of Shaban (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 398, 406.) The
court would agree that the allegations leave much to be desired. While the “Judicial
Council pleading forms have simplified the art of pleading,” they still require
more than “merely placing an ‘X’ in a box.” (People ex rel. Dep't of
Transportation v. Superior Ct. (1992) 5 Cal. App. 4th 1480, 1484.) A form
complaint must “contain whatever ultimate facts are essential to state a cause
of action under existing statutes or case law.” (Id.) This court is also
aware and mindful of its duty to read the allegations liberally and in context (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228) and to “emphasiz[e] substance over form.” (Ameron Internat.
Corp. v. Insurance Co. of State of Pennsylvania (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1370,
1386). Moreover, as a general rule, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”
(Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regul. Auth., (2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 1125,
1135.)   Even so, Plaintiff’s complaint fails to survive demurrer.
All that can be gathered from the allegations are that Plaintiff entered into
an oral contract with Defendant to provide Defendant with advice for the
formation of her business, Fenty.  Much
of the text entered into the form complaint appears to be cut-off. As to
substance, the complaint is unintelligible and lacks the facts necessary to discern
the basis of this lawsuit. These bare allegations deprive Defendant of the
opportunity to reasonably respond to the Complaint. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v.
GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal. App. 5th 677, 695.) Therefore,
the complaint is uncertain, and Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED on this
ground.Aside from the unintelligible nature of the Complaint,
Defendant also contends the Complaint fails because it is time-barred. The
statute of limitations for breach of an oral contract is two years. (CCP §
339(a).)) “The statute of limitations for a breach of contract claim begins to
run at the time of breach (that is, when one party fails to perform as
contractually required).” (Piedmont Cap. Mgmt., L.L.C. v. McElfish
(2023) 94 Cal. App. 5th 961, 964.)            Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendant
breached the agreement in “2014 & in 2016. (Compl., BC-2.)  On the face of the Complaint, this means the
statute of limitations expired in either 2016 or 2018. Because Plaintiff did
not file this action until 2023, it is untimely.             Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer is
also SUSTAINED based on the statute of limitations. Generally speaking, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Because there
is no reasonable possibility of successful amendment here, NO LEAVE TO AMEND IS
GIVEN. OSC Re: DismissalThis
court previously set an Order to Show Cause re: dismissal with prejudice in
accordance with Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal. App. 5th 179. (See
10/31/2024 Minute Order.) The court invited Plaintiff’s response to the OSC by
12/09/2024. (Id.) Plaintiff did not file a standalone response to the
OSC. However, based on the nature of her “Answer” to the demurrer, the court
construes that Answer as her response to the OSC. Consistent with their “inherent
power to control their proceedings,” California courts possess the inherent
authority to dismiss cases that are “fraudulent or vexatious.” (Huang v.
Hanks (2018) 23 Cal. App. 5th 179, 181–82 [cleaned up].) It is
uncontroversial that defendants should “be free from the monetary expense and
other costs of responding to [a plaintiff’s] frivolous claims that cannot avoid
being categorized as ‘fantastic,’ ‘delusional,’ or ‘fanciful.’” (Id.) As discussed previously,
Plaintiff makes numerous bold claims, including that she is the mastermind
behind the Fenty brand, that she is a member of the British Royal Family, and that
she was married to Eminem. Reading these contentions prompts a refrain the
court finds fitting and which the Defendant might be familiar: Baby,
maybe we was just delusionalToo
ambitious, no consistency…We
was just delusionalWe
came an hour lateOur
time has been delayedBaby,
we delusionalDelusional.(“Delusional”
by Chris Brown.)[3]Whether Plaintiff
genuinely believes her allegations to be true is beside the point. With all due
respect to Plaintiff, these claims are objectively “fantastic, delusional, [and]
fanciful.” To spare Defendant the costs of defending such a suit—and so that
scarce judicial resources can be refocused toward “actual disputes”—this case
must be dismissed with prejudice. (Huang, supra, 23 Cal. App. 5th at
182.)Accordingly, the OSC re:
dismissal is GRANTED. The case is ordered DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE.             Defendant
is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED. Dated:   December 16, 2024                                       ___________________________________                                                                                    Randolph
M. Hammock                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court                         Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by
no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested
parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you
submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any
party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your
right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may
not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative
ruling in whole or in part.


