  Case Number:  22STCV11454    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 9-16-24
Case # 22STCV11454
Trial Date: 11-4-24 c/f 7-1-24
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s
of London Subscribing to the Policy
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Matthew Garza, et
al.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Matthew S. Garza was a Major League Baseball
(MLB) pitcher for 12 years. Plaintiff’s career 
with a MLB team ended after the 2017 season, due to a pitching arm
shoulder injury, which was not successfully repaired following surgery well
enough to return to MLB pitching form. 
 
Prior to the injury causing event, Plaintiff procured a
ten million disability insurance policy from defendant Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London Subscribing to the Policy (Lloyd’s). Plaintiff maintains the
policy was procured and submitted by defendant International Specialty
Insurance Services, Inc. (ISI), Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP and
NKSFB, LLC (collectively NKSFB). Defendants Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group,
LLC, and Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Paradigm and Gilbert) assisted Plaintiff
in providing information in support of the application, though the application
admittedly omitted certain information at the time of submission. Following
submission of the claim to Lloyd’s, the claim was denied based at least in part
on the provision of an incomplete application. 
 
On Jul 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of
Duties as an Insurance Broker. The case was initially filed in Fresno County,
and transferred to Los Angeles County on April 5, 2022, following a successful
motion to change venue. Lloyd’s also previously filed a cross-complaint against
Paradigm and Gilbert for Fraud, Negligence, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Comparative Fault/Contribution. 
 
On May 11, 2022, the case was reassigned from complex
court to Department 68, and independent calendar court. On July 26, 2022, the
court granted the motion to strike the cross-complaint with leave to amend.
Lloyd’s filed its first amended cross-complaint on August 11, 2022. On December
6, 2022, the court denied the motion to strike the first amended
cross-complaint. 
 
On December 21, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff leave
to file a first amended complaint. The amended pleading added in defendants
NKSFB and new causes of action. On the same date, the first amended complaint
for Breach of Contract (first and fourth causes of action), Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Duties as an Insurance
Brokers, Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Breach
of Fiduciary Duties, was filed. 
 
On March 23, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel
arbitration. On March 29, 2203, the court overruled the demurrer to the first
amended complaint, and a motion for sanctions, both brought by Gilbert
Insurance Services. 
 
On December 14, 2023, the court granted the motion of
International Specialty Insurance Services, Inc. to interplead $133,624.68 in
funds with the court.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Matthew Garza moves to compel further responses
to Request for Production of Documents (sets one and two), numbers 1, 4, 6, 11,
13, 17, 19, 41, 42, 47, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62,
63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87,
88, and 89 from Defendants Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP and NKSFB,
LLC (collectively “NKSFB”). Plaintiff challenges both the objections as
unfounded, and any argument of prior production from a co-defendant in no way
relieving of discovery obligations. The NKFSB defendants in opposition
challenge the separate statement, maintain the 2,000+ pages of production (to
co-defendant Lloyd’s at least in part) constituted sufficient responses, Plaintiff
failed to sufficiently meet and confer, and Plaintiff otherwise insufficiently
articulates the basis for further production. Plaintiff in reply denies
production of all responsive documents, and in fact maintains no responsive
production occurred as to the actual discovery propounded between the parties
addressed in the subject motion. Even if the responses to Lloyd’s were proper, Plaintiff
describes the required differences between the Lloyd’s discovery and the
subject items. The responses are not otherwise code compliant. Plaintiff also
now raises the necessity for a privilege log rather than reliance on “blanket
objections.” Finally, Plaintiff denies any defects with the separate statement,
and represents a valid good faith effort to meet and confer.
 
The court first addresses the format of the separate
statement. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 governs.
 
(c) Contents of separate statement
A separate statement is a separate document filed and
served with the discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to
understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at
issue. The separate statement must be full and complete so that no person is
required to review any other document in order to determine the full request
and the full response. Material must not be incorporated into the separate
statement by reference. The separate statement must include-for each discovery
request (e.g., each interrogatory, request for admission, deposition question,
or inspection demand) to which a further response, answer, or production is
requested-the following:
(1)  The text of the request, interrogatory,
question, or inspection demand;
(2)  The text of each response, answer, or
objection, and any further responses or answers;
(3)  A statement of the factual and legal reasons
for compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter in
dispute;
(4)  If necessary, the text of all definitions,
instructions, and other matters required to understand each discovery request
and the responses to it;
(5)  If the response to a particular discovery
request is dependent on the response given to another discovery request, or if
the reasons a further response to a particular discovery request is deemed
necessary are based on the response to some other discovery request, the other
request and the response to it must be set forth; and
(6)  If the pleadings, other documents in the file,
or other items of discovery are relevant to the motion, the party relying on
them must summarize each relevant document.
 
(d) Identification of interrogatories, demands, or
requests
A motion concerning interrogatories, inspection demands,
or admission requests must identify the interrogatories, demands, or requests
by set and number.
 
The format of the statement, while not conventional, still
lists every single item, then groups the responses by objections, including: Vague,
Ambiguous and/or Overbroad as to Time and Scope; Relevance; and, Attorney-client
or work product privileges, the right to privacy or confidentiality, or any
other applicable privilege under California or federal law, and/or Proprietary,
Commercially Sensitive or Trade Secret. Plaintiff then breaks down each
individual request with explanation for further production. The court
appreciates the lack of specific distinction as to each and every item. As
addressed further below, however, for purposes of the subject motion, the court
finds Plaintiff sufficiently presents the issue to the court. The court
otherwise declines to deny the motion on either this basis or the lack of
attached responses to numbers 81-86 and 88-89 (See Declaration of Madison
Marder in Reply). 
 
On the meet and confer, the court again agrees with
Defendants regarding the lack of any meaningful meet and confer following the
amended responses. The August 2, 2024, email specifically invites discussion as
to the necessity of producing certain documents, which were apparently put in
Defendants’ possession by the actions of counsel for another party.
[Declarations of Richard Giller, ¶¶ 20-22 Ex. 18-20, and James Hill, ¶¶ 7-10.]
To Defendants, such documents represent the only outstanding issue, while Plaintiff
raises the overall concern of the dependence on the Lloyd’s responses and the
objections. Again, the court declines to deny the motion given the apparent
wide disparity in views based on a dispute as to even the requirement for
production of all responsive documents to the subject discovery (as addressed
below as well).
 
Plaintiff represents the essence of the dispute as
seeking documents relating to the financial relationship between the NKFSB
parties and insurance defendants, Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group, LLC, and
Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Paradigm and Gilbert). Plaintiff also cites
to a promise for production of documents, which never occurred. 
 
While not clear from the actual
amended responses, Defendants essentially admit to referral of document
production served in response to Lloyd’s discovery request, as “nearly”
overlapping the same items. The court finds no support for the ability to refer
to other responses to discovery as sufficiently complying with the requirement
of specifically addressing a propounding parties demands for production. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 783–784 [“Answers must be complete and responsive. Thus, it is
not proper to answer by stating, ‘See my deposition’, ’See my pleading’, or
‘See the financial statement’”].) The argument regarding the lack of any
requirement to compel a party to identify responsive documents indexed to the
specific request pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280 finds no
application to the subject dispute. (Pollock
v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County
(2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1357-1358.) Plaintiff does not seek categorization
of the documents. 
 
In addition to
the admitted refusal to re(produce) responsive documents directly to the
demanded discovery, the meet and confer exchanges also raised argument over
certain items from other counsel. The court cannot determine whether such items
constitute part of the Lloyd’s production or additional discovery. The court
declines to engage in a granular review of such specific items given the larger
production concerns, pending motions for summary judgment, and November trial
date. In other words, the court declines to determine the validity of the
production made to Lloyd’s, the insufficiency of said items relative to
Plaintiff’s demand, or additional potential required production from
co-defendants. Thus, the court orders production of the documents relevant to
the demands in the subject sets of requests for production regardless of any
prior production to a co-defendant, which may or may not include co-defendant
production as well. Defendants are responsible for determining responsive
documents, not delegating any potential determination to the court. Defendants
are not required to index or identify the subject items, though apparently
agreed in the identification of Bates stamp numbers. (See Pollock
v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, supra,
93 Cal.App.5th 1357-1358.)
 
Defendants also
present discussion on the basis of overbroad requests. The court cannot determine
the basis of support for this objection. Defendants apparently identified the
documents already produced to Lloyd’s. Defendants maintain said documents
constitute all non-privileged materials, and any and all privileged documents
are presumably being withheld. Thus, reproduction of the set of documents
already deemed completely responsive in no way supports a finding of overbroad
given said prior determinations were previously completed and the documents
compiled. 
 
The motion
itself otherwise presents no substantive argument challenging the privilege objections.
The court orders production of a log for any and all withheld documents, again
based on the presumption of knowledge of responsive documents. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c).)
 
The court
otherwise declines to address the unsupported argument regarding the failure to
follow up with the purported promise to produce documents. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.320.)
 
In summary, the
motion is GRANTED. Defendants to produce all non-privileged documents to
Plaintiff in response to the requests for production sets one and two, and a
privilege log for any withheld items. 
 
Motion for determination of Good Faith Settlement and
concurrent motion to seal references to settlement amounts set for September
19. Trial remains set for November 4, 2024.
 
Plaintiff to give
notice.
 