 Case Number:  21STCV46867    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  29 Cannon v. QIC US Management
21STCV46867
Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate Order Granting Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On December 23, 2021, Plaintiff Janice Cannon
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant QIC US Management, Inc. dba
Victoria Gardens Mall (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 20, asserting a cause of
action for premises liability. 
 
On June 2, 2022, Defendant filed its
answer.
 
On March 8, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment. 
 
On January 24, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment.
 
On March 15, 2024, the Court entered judgment in favor of
Defendant.  On May 24, 2024, the Court entered
an amended judgment (including costs) in favor of Defendant.
 
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this motion to vacate the order granting Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment.  Defendant filed an opposition
on June 11. 
This motion was initially
scheduled for hearing on June 28, 2024. 
The hearing was continued at the request of the moving party to July 22.  In the aftermath of a cyber attack on the Los
Angeles County Superior Court, the Court, on its own motion, continued the
hearing to August 19.  The hearing was then
continued at the request of the moving party to September 26.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal. 
As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the
motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be
filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal,
default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  
(Ibid.)
 
A request for discretionary relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), must be made (subject to certain exceptions) “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months.”  (Ibid.)  A request for mandatory relief must be made
within six months.  (Ibid.)
Discussion
Plaintiff filed a notice of motion and motion on May 9,
2024.  According to the title of the
document, Plaintiff seeks to “vacate summary judgment.”  According to the notice of motion and motion,
Plaintiff seeks to vacate “the order granting … summary judgment.”  Plaintiff seeks this relief under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). 
 
The notice of motion and motion reference a declaration
of counsel.  No declaration of counsel
was filed.  Nor was any other evidence in
support of the motion.  Nor was a
memorandum of points and authorities filed.
 
Without supporting evidence or a supporting memorandum, Plaintiff’s
motion is incomplete and procedurally deficient.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010; Cal. Rules of
Court, rules 3.1112-3.1115.)  Moreover,
without supporting evidence, Plaintiff has not shown any basis for the relief
requested.
 
On that basis, the motion is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to vacate.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.