  Case Number:  24STCV05248    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ GAGE DEVELOPMENTS I LLC, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. BHS, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV05248 Hearing Date: December 17, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT with leave to amend  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Gage Developments I LLC, Gage Developments II LLC, and Gage Developments III LLC (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants BHS, Inc. (“BHS”), Kidder Matthews of California, Inc. (“Kidder Matthews”), and Does 1 through 50. The complaint sets forth five causes of action for (1) Breach of Written Contract – against BHS and Does 1-10, (2) Specific Performance - against BHS and Does 1-10, (3) Fraud and Deceit – against BHS, Kidder Matthews, and Does 1 to 10, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation – against BHS, Kidder Matthews, and Does 1 to 10, and (5) Unfair Business Practices – against BHS, Kidder Matthews, and Does 1 to 10. On September 30, 2024, Kidder Matthews filed the instant demurrer to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts against it. On December 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On December 10, 2024, Kidder Matthews filed a reply.  II. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENT Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a).) Counsel for Kidder Matthews declares he exchanged multiple emails with Plaintiffs’ counsel and that they could not reach an agreement. (Shoecraft Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs’ counsel declares he never spoke to Kidder Matthews’ counsel via telephone nor did he ever receive a telephone message. (Vivoli Decl. ¶ 2.) The Court finds that Kidder Matthews has not fulfilled the meet and confer requirement. CCP § 430.41(a) provides that the “demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference”. Kidder Matthews did not meet and confer in this prescribed manner prior to the filing of the demurrer.  Nonetheless, a determination by the Court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer or to grant or deny a motion to strike. (CCP §§ 430.41(a)(4).)  III. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿¿ “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)  IV. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Kidder Matthews requests the Court to take judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ FAC. The request is denied; it is both unnecessary and redundant for the Court to take judicial notice of the very complaint which the demurrer seeks to test.  V. DISCUSSION A. Third C/A – Fraud & Deceit “[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘“(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”’ ” (Jones v. Conoco Phillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 1187, 1198, quoting Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.) A duty to disclose arises in only four circumstances: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the Plaintiff, (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the Plaintiff, (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the Plaintiff; [or] (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) The FAC alleges in relevant part the following. Plaintiffs’ predecessor-in-interest, before the rights were assigned to Plaintiffs, signed a Purchase of Real Estate ("PSA") on November 29, 2021 to purchase real property located at 7222 Gage Ave., Commerce, CA 90040 (“the Property”). (FAC ¶¶ 2, 10.) When Plaintiffs visited the Property after executing the PSA, the door to the area adjacent to the cabinet shop was concealed and locked, and inaccessible to Plaintiffs. (Id. ¶ 12.) Robert An of Kidder Matthews was Defendants’ broker, and the PSA identifies Kidder Matthews as the seller’s real estate brokerage firm. (FAC ¶ 16; FAC PSA at ¶ 7.) Defendants purposefully locked the room because behind the locked door was a “paint room” using paints and other chemicals known to be toxic and potentially serious sources of environmental contamination known to render real property less valuable. (Ibid.) Like BHS, “Kidder Matthews likewise knew about the historic release of hazardous substances within the paint room and potentially other areas within the Property and not only failed to disclose those releases but actively hid the presence of the paint room and ensured that it was locked and non-accessible when Plaintiffs made their first inspection of the Property before releasing its contingencies in or around January of 2022. Indeed, Kidder Matthews actively attempted to impede Plaintiffs' ability to detect the presence and location of the paint room in Plaintiffs' late 2023 visits to the Property, and again in early 2024, when the parties met at the Property with their respective counsel.” (FAC ¶ 35.) Kidder Matthews argues that the duty to disclose is limited to residential property only, and not commercial property, in reliance on Easton v. Strassburger (1984) 152 Cal. App. 3d 90. Kidder Matthews misstates the application of Easton, as the holding and its codification is limited and expressly did not modify or restrict existing duties. Easton involved the judgment against a real estate broker regarding “simple negligence only” and the holding was limited to the duty of inspection and disclosure. (Id. at 98.) The Legislature codified the holding of Easton by adding Civil Code §§ 2079-2079.5, which provides that it is the duty of a real estate broker or salesperson to a prospective buyer of residential real property to “conduct a reasonably competent and diligent visual inspection of the property and to disclose to that prospective buyer all facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the property that an investigation would reveal…” (Civil Code §2079.) Cases postdating Easton declined to extend the statutory duty of inspection and disclosure to the sale of commercial properties. (E.g. Smith v. Rickard (1988) 205 Cal. App. 3d 1354, 1360.)  However, as pled in the FAC, the theory of liability against Kidder Matthews is not the failure to conduct a diligent investigation of the Property and to disclose reasonably discoverable defects, but rather the duty to disclose material defects known to it but unknown to Plaintiffs and of which Kidder Matthews allegedly concealed. Neither Easton nor the statutory scheme codifying Easton changes preexisting law regarding broker's fraudulent concealment of material defects known to broker but unknown to prospective buyer. As stated above, Easton only established the duty to inspect. (See Williams v. Wells & Bennett Realtors (1997) 52 Cal. App. 4th 857, 865 [section 2079 establishes that the only duty added by that section is the Easton duty to inspect and disclose]; Field v. Century 21 Klowden-Forness Realty (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 18, 24 “Section 2079 statutorily limits the duty of inspection recognized in Easton to one requiring only a visual inspection.”].) The court in Williams v. Wells & Bennett Realtors (1997) 52 Cal. App. 4th 857, 862–63 poignantly summarized the effect of Easton as follows: “In Easton, the court noted that existing law required agents to disclose material defects known to the broker, but unknown to the prospective buyer. (Citation.) A failure to disclose such facts gave rise to a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. (Citation.) The liability of the agent in Easton was grounded on negligence, rather than fraud, and the court concerned itself with the issue of whether the agent had a duty to conduct an inspection to discover defects.…The court, therefore, held that the duties of a seller's broker included “the affirmative duty to conduct a reasonably competent and diligent inspection of the residential property listed for sale and to disclose to prospective purchasers all facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the property that such an investigation would reveal.” (Citation.) … This review of Easton makes it clear that a real estate agent's liability for fraud existed prior to the Easton case, and that the new duty imposed by Easton did not change the preexisting law of fraud.” Thus, in enacting Civil Code §2079 et seq., the Legislature made it clear that it was not changing pre-Easton law regarding real estate agents’ duties. (See Robinson v. Grossman (1997) 57 Cal. App. 4th 634, 64 [“It is the intent of the Legislature to codify and make precise the holding of Easton.... It is not the intent of the Legislature to modify or restrict existing duties owed by real estate licensees.”].) Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale (2008) LLC, 162 Cal. App. 4th 858 (Blickman), as cited by Kidder Matthews, does not change the above analysis. In sum, Easton and Civil Code §2079, et seq. adds the affirmative duty to diligently inspect a residential property for discoverable defects and does not change or modify any other laws with respect to duty to disclose and fraud claims. Kidder Matthews’ misrepresentation of Easton to broadly assert that it has no duty whatsoever, under any law, is not well-taken. Here, the FAC has sufficiently alleged enough facts to support the essential elements for fraudulent concealment. Kidder Matthews knew about the hazardous substances within the Property and actively hid it by ensuring the room was locked and non-accessible during Plaintiffs’ first inspection prior to the release of its contingencies in January 2022; Kidder Matthews as the broker in the sale had a duty to disclose this fact to Plaintiffs (See Calemine v. Samuelson (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 153, 161 [real estate seller has common law duty, in the context of a real estate transaction, where “‘[i]t is now settled in California that where the seller knows of facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the property ... and also knows that such facts are not known to, or within the reach of the diligent attention and observation of the buyer, the seller is under a duty to disclose them to the buyer.”]); Kidder Matthews actively impeded Plaintiffs’ ability to detect the presence and location of the paint room in Plaintiffs’ late 2023 and early 2024 visits to the Property; Defendants intentionally concealed material facts with the intent of defrauding Plaintiffs out of their money by overpaying for the Property worth considerably less with environmental contamination that it would be if it was free of such substances and; as a result Plaintiffs would not have agreed to pay the sum reflected in the PSA as the Property would not be worth that amount with disclosure of the environmental contamination. (FAC ¶¶ 35, 37, 39.) Lastly, in terms of Kidder Matthews’s argument that it had no duty to disclose arising out of the PSA because it was not a party to the PSA, a broker has an independent tort duty to disclose concealed dangerous conditions. (See Lingsch v. Savage (1963) 213 Cal. App. 2d 729, 736 [“The real estate agent or broker representing the seller is a party to the business transaction. In most instances he has a personal interest in it and derives a profit from it...It is not necessary that there be a contractual relationship between the agent or broker and the buyer. [Citation.] As this court said in Nathanson v. Murphy (1955), 132 Cal.App.2d 363, 368, 282 P.2d 174, 178 ‘[a]n action for deceit does not require privity of contract.’”].) The Court need not reach the contentions regarding the inapplicability of Health & Safety Code Section 78700 as it applies to Kidder Matthews. The foregoing is sufficient to overrule the demurrer, and a demurrer may not be sustained to only part of a cause of action. (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1680, 1682 [A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.].) The demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. B. Fourth C/A – Negligent Misrepresentation Negligent misrepresentation is a form of fraud. (Tijsseling v. General Acc. Etc. Assur. Corp. (1976) 55 Cal App 3d 623.) A cause of action for negligent misrepresentation requires the following elements: (1) assertion of an untrue fact; (2) honestly made in the belief it is true; (3) but without a reasonable ground for such belief; (4) defendant’s intent to induce plaintiff’s reliance upon the representation; (5) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance upon the representation; and (6) resulting damage.¿(Melican v. Regents of University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 182; County of Kern v. Sparks (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 11, 20.) The Court has reviewed the FAC, and it is bereft of any specific assertions made by Kidder Matthews of an untrue fact that it believed to be true without reasonable ground, and that Plaintiffs justifiably relied upon such representations. (See Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 185, n.14 [requiring pleading particularity with facts that show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered]; Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519 [requiring pleading specificity]; B.L.M. v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 823, 834-836 [relevant intent is to induce reliance, not to deceive]; Byrum v. Brand (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 926, 940 [rejecting a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation based on unintentional omission or concealment]. The general reference to “the terms reflected in the PSA” (FAC ¶ 42) is insufficient to meet the pleading requirement. The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED. C. Fifth C/A – Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 Business and Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”) defines “unfair competition” as “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Cal. Bus. and Prof. Code § 17200.) Each of these three types of unfair competition capture a separate and distinct theory of liability. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; Beaver v. Tarsadia Hotels (2016) 816 F.3d 1170.) “By prohibiting unlawful business practices, ‘ “section 17200 ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices” that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.’ ” [Citation.] (Lee v. Luxottica Retail N. Am., Inc. (2021) 65 Cal. App. 5th 793, 799.)¿“Virtually any law can serve as the predicate for a section 17200 action.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) The FAC alleges, “pursuant to California Business & Professions Code section 10176 Defendant Kidder Matthews as prohibited from making any substantial misrepresentations regarding the Property it marketed for sale or engaging in any dishonest dealings while in the course of doing so. Nonetheless, Defendants, and each of them, acting in their respective capacities, concealed facts from Plaintiff regarding the Property, which resulted in Plaintiffs paying to Defendants an inflated price for the Property and incurring additional expenses as a direct and proximate result of Defendants' fraudulent and unfair conduct.” (FAC ¶ 46.)  Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 10176 provides, “The commissioner may, upon his or her own motion, and shall, upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, investigate the actions of any person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a real estate licensee within this state, and he or she may temporarily suspend or permanently revoke a real estate license at any time where the licensee, while a real estate licensee, in performing or attempting to perform any of the acts within the scope of this chapter has been guilty of any of the following: (a) Making any substantial misrepresentation.” Kidder Matthews argues that the FAC has not alleged any misrepresentations by Kidder Matthews, and that the UCL claim cannot be predicated on the allegation that it was legally obligated to refrain from concealing facts because a real estate broker does not owe duties to disclose information in commercial real estate. While the FAC does not allege any affirmative misrepresentations, the Court refers to the above analysis regarding the fraudulent concealment cause of action and moving party’s overbroad misapplication of Eastman, and by proxy Blickman, to this matter. The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.  VI. CONCLUSION Kidder Matthews’ demurrer to the third and fifth causes of action are OVERRULED. Kidder Matthews’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: December 16, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 