 Case Number:  22CHCV00801    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 12-4-23
Case # 22CHCV00801
Trial Date: Not Set
 
VEXATIOUS LITIGANT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Jennifer Craig-Ford, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Margarita Carranza, pro per
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Designate Plaintiff Margarita Carranza a
Vexatious Litigant
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Defendants Martinian & Associates, et al. represented
Plaintiff Margrarita Carranza in an action against the County of Los Angeles,
et al. for Negligence, Government Tort Liability, and Premises Liabiity
(19STCV05567). According to Plaintiff the case settled for $50,000, which led
to a (contingency recovery) fee of $25,000. Plaintiff expected a net payment of
$25,000, but when presented with the final check, additional “expenses” were
also deducted, thereby leading to a net payment of “20K.” The expenses included
medical “liens,” which Plaintiff contends were never “authorized.” 
 
On September 29, 2022, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a
complaint for Breach of Contract and General Negligence. On January 12, 2023,
Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a first amended complaint for “Attorney
Misconduct.” The first amended complaint contains a conformed copy of a
December 8, 2022, filed “Request to Re-Open Complaint,” as well as a Breach of
Contract, General Negligence, and Fraud attachments. 
 
On March 15, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of
defendants to the first amended complaint for “Attorney Misconduct” with 30
days leave to amend. On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a second
amended complaint for Fraud though the caption identifies additional causes of
action. On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed an “addendum” to the
second amended complaint again with only the fraud cause of action attachment
and additional exhibits, plus new allegations. 

 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed eight (8) requests for
dismissals for the following defendants: Robert Yaspan, Brian Kuhn, Fennia
Hakobyan, Sevana Vatazarian, Philip Craft, Ronald Whittaker, Jonathan Berger,
and D.A. Lucas.
 
RULING: Continued
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the existence of the
court filings and court docket for purposes of establishing the existence of
the purported conduct, but cannot take judicial notice of the content of any
and all items for the truth of the matter asserted.
 
Defendants Martinian & Associates  and Tigran Martinian move to designate
plaintiff Margrarita Carranza, in pro per, a vexatious
litigant. Defendants summarize the basis for the request based on continued
e-mails to defendants even following a stipulation to limit or stop said
emails; “frivolous” motions to reopen a dismissed action (19STCV05567); Addition
of Defendants as parties to a separate lawsuit (22STCV17802); the prosecution
of two other lawsuits (22STCV06945 & 22STCV13981), whereby Plaintiff seeks
to relate the subject cases to the instant action; and, a general statement of
“abusive” tactics to “bully” and/or “annoy” Defendants and counsel. 
 
Plaintiff in opposition requests the court
“dismiss” the motion. Plaintiff reiterates the basis of “fraud” in the
disbursement of the settlement proceeds. Plaintiff also addresses the
disposition of two cases apparently as an effort to establish the validity of
the complaints.
 
Defendants in reply first notes the
unserved, late filed opposition to the motion. Defendants then reiterate the
argument regarding the conflation of cases and systematic efforts to relitigate
the subject action. 
 
“Except as provided in subdivision (b) of Section 391.3,
when a motion pursuant to Section 391.1 is filed prior to trial the litigation
is stayed, and the moving defendant need not plead, until 10 days after the
motion shall have been denied, or if granted, until 10 days after the required
security has been furnished and the moving defendant given written notice
thereof. When a motion pursuant to Section 391.1 is made at any time
thereafter, the litigation shall be stayed for such period after the denial of
the motion or the furnishing of the required security as the court shall
determine.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 391.6.)
 
Due to impacted court calendars as a result of inventory
transfer included highly contested actions such as this one, and the court
resource intensive nature of the instant motion, the court continues the
hearing to March 4, 2024. The court shows a number of reserved items, with only
two items actually scheduled: an OSC re Failure to File Proofs of Service and a
Case Management Conference for January 9, 2024. No trial date is set, and the
disposition of the action may change depending on the outcome of the instant
hearing. The court finds no prejudice to the parties in continuing the hearing.
The court therefore vacates the two hearings pending the March 4, 2024, hearing
on the instant motion. 
 
The case is therefore stayed. Nothing in this order in any
bars any action on any and all of the unrelated cases, or provides any form of
injunctive relief against social media use, or email communications.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 