  Case Number:  20STCV44865    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
12-4-23
Case
#20STCV44865
Trial
Date: 4-22-24 c/f 2-5-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Saugus Union High School District, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Solomon Perkins
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication on the First Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Violation of California Education Code sections 200, 201, 220
and 260 – Discrimination on the Basis of Disability
·        
5th
Cause of Action: Violation of Equal Protection Clause of the California
Constitution
·        
6th
Cause of Action: False Imprisonment
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Violation of Americans with Disability Act
·        
8th
Cause of Action: Violation of California Government Code section 11135 –
Discrimination Based on Disability
·        
9th
Cause of Action: Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Violation of the Equal
Protection Clause
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 13, 2020, Plaintiff Solomon Perkins, a student at Tesoro Del Valle
Elementary School, a school campus within the territory of Defendant Saugus
Union School District (Saugus Union), was an enrolled student on campus, when a
fellow classmate, “Tobin,” reported to a staff member on campus that Plaintiff
was carrying a gun in his backpack. According to the complaint, Plaintiff told
Tobin he had a “”Nurf-Slingshot gun” with him, which led to the
misrepresentation of an actual gun.
 
Plaintiff
is a student with special needs and a learning disability. Plaintiff attends
school with an individualized education plan (IEP), which requires the presence
of a para-professional during instructional time. The para-professional was not
present during the interactive period with Tobin.
 
Following
the report, Plaintiff’s backpack was examined by school principal, defendant
Gina Nolte. The search revealed no actual firearm or slingshot gun. Nolte
subsequently contacted the Los Angeles County Sheriff, and the “mental health
department.” According to the complaint, the mental health department
“attempted to commit Plaintiff.” 
 
Although
Plaintiff’s mother, Thea Perkins, was apparently contacted and came to the
school campus, prior to her arrival, the Sheriffs Department interrogated
Plaintiff. No other adult acting on Plaintiff’s behalf was present. Upon Thea
Perkins arriving at campus, both Plaintiff and his mother were involuntarily
detained on the premises, until they were both escorted off the premises by
armed deputies. 
 
Following
the incident, Thea Perkins demanded new and different resources be assigned to
Plaintiff. The request was denied, and instead Defendant Saugus Union “disabled
access on Plaintiff’s Chromebook,” which Plaintiff used for remote learning
during the Covid school campus closure. Plaintiff has been cut-off from the
school therapist and contact via other Google applications. On a personal
level, para-professional services were also denied during remote learning, and
Plaintiff was never sent any learning supplies associated with remote learning.
 
Plaintiff
alleges a claim was submitted to Saugus Unified School District on May 28, 2020
and rejected. On November 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed a ten cause of action
complaint for Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California Education
Code sections 200, 201, 220 and 260, Violation of Equal Protection Clause of
the California Constitution, False Imprisonment Violation of Americans with
Disability Act, Violation of California Unruh Act, Violation of California
Government Code section 1135, and Violation of 42 USC section 1983. Both
Defendants are named in all causes of action.
 
On
March 9, 2021, the action was transferred out of Department 28. On March 12,
2021, the action was assigned to Department 49. On July 12, 2021, the court
denied the special motion to strike of Saugus Union High School District. On
September 28, 2021, the court granted Plaintiff leave to file a later
government claim. 
 
On
October 28, 2021, Plaintiff filed an eleven cause of action first amended complaint
for Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California Education Code
sections 200, 201, 220 and 260 – Discrimination on the Basis of Disability,
Violation of Equal Protection Clause of the California Constitution, False
Imprisonment, Violation of Americans with Disability Act, Violation of
California Government Code section 11135 – Discrimination Based on Disability,
Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Violation of the Equal Protection Clause,
Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Deprivation of Civil Rights, and, Violation
of 42 USC section 1983 –Monell Violations. Defendant Saugus Unified School
District answered the first amended complaint on November 29, 2021. New counsel
for Plaintiff substituted into the case on January 18, 2022.
 
On
February 7, 2022, the court overruled the demurrer of Los Angeles County. Los
Angeles County answered on February 17, 2022. On April 10, 2023, the case was
reassigned to Department 51. On July 26, 2023, the case was reassigned to
Department 47 following the recusal from Department 51, and then transferred
back to Department 49.
 
RULING: Denied in
Part/Granted in Part/Continued for Further Briefing in Part.
Request
for Judicial Notice (Reply): Denied. 
The
court declines to take judicial notice of the news report or criminal plea
involving a shooting post the subject action. The court cannot take judicial
notice of the truth of any such items, even if the matters were subject to
judicial notice. The deposition transcripts should have been presented as an
exhibit with the motion. A transcript is not an item subject to judicial notice
for the truth of the matter asserted as well. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Deposition of Solomon Perkins: Overruled/Not Relied Upon
(Code Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Deposition of Thea Perkins: Overruled/Not Relied Upon (Code
Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections Submitted in the Responsive Separate Statement: Overruled/Not
Considered (Code Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).) Any and all written objections
must be submitted in a separately filed pleading. (Cal. Rules Ct., rule
3.1354(b).)
 
Defendants
Saugus Union High School District, and Gina Nolte move for summary
judgment/summary adjudication on the first through ninth causes of action for
Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California Education Code
sections 200, 201, 220 and 260 – Discrimination on the Basis of Disability,
Violation of Equal Protection Clause of the California Constitution, False
Imprisonment, Violation of Americans with Disability Act, Violation of
California Government Code section 11135 – Discrimination Based on Disability,
and Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Violation of the Equal Protection
Clause.
 
Defendants
move on grounds of the litigation privilege, and lack of evidence demonstrating
animus. Plaintiffs in opposition challenges the application of the litigation
privilege, denies any applicable immunity for the actions of the school, and
contends triable issues of material of fact on the course and conduct of the
underlying incident in regards to discriminatory animus. 
 
Defendants
in reply reiterate the litigation privilege and protection from liability of
the conduct articulated in the first, second and third causes of action.
Defendants maintain principal Nolte was entitled to detain Solomon without
potential civil liability due to the potential gun threat regardless of whether
any weapon was found at the time. Defendants cite to a recent school shooting
case in the state of Virginia as a form of post-event support of the state of
mind of principal Nolte at the time. On the civil rights cases, Defendants
again reiterate the lack of evidence of animus regarding the gun search and
report to law enforcement. 
 
Defendants
also present supplemental deposition transcripts from Thea Perkins, an August
15, 2023, plea deal involving a person identified as Deja Taylor in the state
of Virginia, and the news report regarding the six year old shooter. The court
declines to consider the subject supplemental exhibits given it deprives
Plaintiffs of the opportunity to respond to the argument, and it’s not clear
how a shooting occurring after the subject incident in any way reflects on the
merits of the subject action for purposes of ruling on the motion.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v.
Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation
omitted).)
 
1st
Cause of Action, Negligence: Continued for Supplemental Briefing
2nd
Cause of Action, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention: Continued
for Supplemental Briefing.
3rd
Cause of Action, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: Continued for
Supplemental Briefing.
Defendants
moves for summary adjudication on grounds that the conduct of Gina Nolte,
principal of Tesoro Elementary School in reporting potential criminal conduct
to law enforcement constitutes an action protected by litigation privilege
thereby immunizing defendants from liability in the Negligence, Negligent
Supervision, Training and/or Retention, and Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress causes of action.
 
“The litigation privilege in
section 47 applies to ‘any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (n (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 28, 37.) The litigation privilege applies to any and all causes of
action except malicious prosecution. (Hagberg v. California Federal Bank FSB
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 350, 375.) “A plaintiff cannot establish a probability of
prevailing if the litigation privilege precludes the defendant's liability on
the claim.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 888.) Whether the privilege applies is “a factual
question that will require evaluation of plaintiffs’ proffered evidence to
determine whether they have made a prima facie showing of their ability to
negate these factors.” (Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275, 286.)

 
“An absolute privilege exists to protect citizens from the
threat of litigation for communications to government agencies whose function
it is to investigate and remedy wrongdoing. (Citation.) The privilege is
based on ‘[t]he importance of providing to citizens free and open access to
governmental agencies for the reporting of suspected illegal
activity.’ (Citation.)” (Wise v. Thrifty Payless, Inc. (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 1296, 1303.) “One policy underlying the absolute privilege for
statements made in governmental investigations and reports of misconduct ‘is to
assure utmost freedom of communication between citizens and public authorities
whose responsibility is to investigate and remedy wrongdoing.’ (Citations.) …
[¶] … As other courts have stated, ‘there must be an open channel of
communication by which citizens can call [the investigator's] attention to
suspected wrongdoing.’” (Braun v. Bureau of State Audits (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1382, 1390–1391; Kibler v. Northern Inyo County Local Hospital
Dist. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 192, 203; Mann v. Quality Old Time Service,
Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 328, 335; ComputerXpress, Inc. v.
Jackson (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1009.) “This subdivision does not make privileged any communication
between a person and a law enforcement agency in which the person makes a false
report that another person has committed, or is in the act of committing, a
criminal act or is engaged in an activity requiring law enforcement
intervention, knowing that the report is false, or with reckless disregard for
the truth or falsity of the report. (Civ. Code, § 47 subd. (b)(5).)
 
Plaintiff concedes to the existence of the privilege, but
maintains the standard excludes non-communicative conduct and false reports by
“non-victims.” The argument depends on both the separation of the conduct
following the call to the Sheriff, whereby Solomon was questioned and searched,
as well as a claim of a knowingly false report to the Sheriff. Nolte
purportedly searched the bag of Solomon and discovered no weapon of any sort,
yet still called the Sheriff to investigate. Plaintiffs additionally contend
that because Nolte was a “non-victim” or non-party to any suspected crime and
the conduct of reporting to the police was otherwise not part of any mandatory
duty, the statutory exception for malicious conduct applies.
 
As
provided in the standard for summary judgment/summary adjudication cited above,
the court considers the foundational allegations of the three challenged causes
of action in order to determine the scope of the argument. Paragraph 32
specifically states that even after searching the backpack and discovering no
weapon, Nolte still called law enforcement and the “mental health department,”
albeit without any allegation of a false or malicious intent. The second cause
of action lacks any additional or new claims, while the third cause of action
both incorporates the report allegations, as well as reliance on the
allegations of improper isolation/detention of Solomon, thereby causing
emotional distress.
 
Nolte
states in declaration that while no gun was discovered in the backpack of
Solomon, Nolte was unaware of whether Solomon otherwise had potential access to
a firearm at home, and therefore called the Sheriff. School safety regulations
require the reporting any potential threat of extreme violence. The decision
was also based on the purported admission of Solomon regarding his admission to
shoot everyone in his class, except for two friends, and confirmation from
another classmate. [Declaration of Gina Nolte, ¶¶ 14-21, 23.]
 
Civil
Code section 47, subdivision (b)(5) of the statute was added on January 1,
2021. Because the incident occurred in February 2020, it remains unclear
whether Defendants seek application of the prior version of the statute though
Plaintiffs challenge any assertion of an absolute bar, as addressed in earlier
cases considering the statute and/or whether Plaintiff also relies on the
malicious intent exception. (Chabak v. Monroy (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th
1502, 1514.)
 
“‘[L]egislative enactments are generally presumed to operate
prospectively and not retroactively unless the Legislature expresses a
different intention’” (Evangelatos v. Superior Court (1988) 44
Cal.3d 1188, 1208; Myers v. Philip Morris Companies, Inc. (2002) 28
Cal.4th 828, 844 [“[A] statute may be applied retroactively only if it contains
express language of retroactivity or if other sources provide a clear
and unavoidable implication that the Legislature intended retroactive application”].)
“[A] statute's retroactivity is, in the first instance, a policy determination
for the Legislature and one to which courts defer absent “some constitutional
objection” to retroactivity.” (Myers v. Philip Morris Companies, Inc., supra,
28 Cal.4th at p. 841.) “But it has long been established that a statute that
interferes with antecedent rights will not operate retroactively unless such
retroactivity be ‘the unequivocal and inflexible import of the terms, and the
manifest intention of the legislature.’” (McClung v. Employment Development
Dept. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 467, 475.) The court finds no basis for
retroactivity, and therefore considers the 2020 version of the statute
applicable at the time of the incident, which lacked the malicious conduct
exception under subdivision (b)(5).
 
Under the prior standard, the privilege remained absolute.
The court also finds the argument for third party/non-victim in no way
undermines a finding of immunity for principal Nolte in the capacity of an
administrator responsible for reporting safety concerns impacting individual
students and staff at a school campus. (Wise v. Thrifty Payless, Inc., supra,
83 Cal.App.4th at p. 1303; Braun v. Bureau of State Audits, supra,
67 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1390–1391; Kibler v. Northern Inyo County Local
Hospital Dist., supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 203; Mann v. Quality Old Time
Service, Inc., supra, 139 Cal.App.4th at p. 335; ComputerXpress,
Inc. v. Jackson, supra, 93 Cal.App.4th at p. 1009.) Finally, the court
concludes that any argument for exception under such statutes as the Child
Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act are not applicable. (Chabak v. Monroy, supra,
154 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1514-1515.)
 
Regardless, the three causes of action allege more than just
conduct related to the police and mental health services report. Courts must “draw a careful
distinction between a cause of action based squarely on a privileged
communication … and one based upon an underlying course of conduct evidenced by
the communication.” (White v. Western Title Ins. Co. (1985) 40 Cal.3d
870, 888.) “‘The distinction between communicative and noncommunicative
conduct hinges on the gravamen of the action.... [T]he key in determining
whether the privilege applies is whether the injury allegedly resulted from an
act that was communicative in its essential nature.’ (Citations.) Notably, ‘if
the gravamen of the action is communicative, the litigation privilege extends
to noncommunicative acts that are necessarily related to the communicative
conduct.’ (Citations.) To show that the litigation privilege does not apply,
the burden is on the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘an independent,
noncommunicative, wrongful act was the gravamen of the action.’” (Mireskandari
v. Gallagher (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 346, 369 (internal quotation marks
omitted).)
 
The motion lacks any address on the differences in articulated
conduct underpinning the three challenged causes of action, while Plaintiffs seek
to distinguish the conduct based at least on part on the damages claims arising
from conduct beyond the phone call itself. As noted above, paragraph 32 of the
operative complaint presents a series of claims originating from the report of
the fellow second grade student. The student statement triggered a search,
phone call, and placement of Solomon into a separate space for questioning by
the Sheriff. 
 
The intent of the statute provides protection from conduct
intended to offer protection from potential reprisal and encourage the
reporting of illegal, including threatening, activity. (Wise v. Thrifty
Payless, Inc., supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 1303; Braun v. Bureau
of State Audits, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1390–1391.) The court
interprets the protection narrowly in that while communicative acts (e.g. the
reporting) clearly constitutes a protected activity, the privilege in no way
shields a party from all potential claims tangentially related damages. (Kimmel
v. Goland (1990) 51 Cal.3d 202, 211 [“a review of the myriad cases that
have applied section 47(2) to shield defendants from liability demonstrates
that, without exception, the privilege has applied only to torts arising from
statements or publications”]; Mancini & Associates v. Schwetz (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 656, 661 [“Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) applies only
to communicative acts and does not apply to tortious courses of conduct’].) In
other words, the law interpreting privileged communications in no way excuses
other claims of tortious conduct even if the communication initially prompts
the pathway. 
 
Nevertheless, as also addressed below in consideration of
the false imprisonment claim, the court must distinguish between the conduct
between principal Nolte and the subsequent conduct of the Sheriff in taking
over the questioning. While Plaintiffs rightfully seeks to assert separate
damages as a result of the entire incident, such an argument lacks factual distinction
between the conduct of principal Nolte and the responding sheriffs. Other than
the general claim of a violation of a duty to protect Solomon from “unnecessary
law enforcement contact,” which constitutes a separate action beyond the scope
of Nolte’s control in that the Sheriff assumed the questioning of Solomon, the
conduct essentially constitutes allegations arising from the detention of a
student pending a safety investigation and the flowing emotional distress of
the incident. Under the gravamen of the complaint standard, the distinction
between the search, detention and report to the Sheriff, and the subsequent
assumption of the investigation by the Sheriff presents distinctive differences
in the conduct between the principal and law enforcement. The court finds the
distinction critical in that statutory and case law vests a school
administrator with certain rights and privileges in the role of in loco
parentis, especially in situations involving student well being and safety.
 
Nevertheless,
the motion and reply lacks address of this specific aspect raised in the
opposition and expanded upon by the court. The court declines to consider
unmade arguments, but also finds the subject motion necessitates further
discussion. The issue requires further consideration regarding both the
potential extension of the absolute privilege standard to the moment leading to
the turnover of Solomon to the Sheriff, as well as other protections arising
from Nolte exercising rights as a principal of the school separate and apart
from the absolutely privileged conduct of the report. The court will therefore
set a supplemental briefing schedule on the issue of the allowable course and
scope of conduct by principal Nolte in responding to the potential threat.
Defendants may argue for an extension of the absolute privilege and/or consider
other forms of potential protections to a school administrator. (Vernonia
School Dist. 47J v. Acton (1995) 515 U.S. 646, 655-656; see Mullenix v.
Luna (2015) 577 U.S. 7.) 
 
4th
Cause of Action, Violation of California Education Code sections 200, 201, 220
and 260 – Discrimination on the Basis of Disability: Denied.
Defendants
generally move for summary adjudication on grounds of a lack of evidence
establishing discriminatory animus on the fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth, and
ninth causes of action. Unlike the report and detention claims, the subject
causes of action address essentially allege disparate treatment of school
resources to students with disabilities. The court addresses the individual
causes of action.
 
Defendants
specifically challenge the subject cause of action on grounds of insufficient
support for the claim under section 220, and lack of an actual legal foundation
for liability under sections 200, 201, and 260. Plaintiffs in opposition
contends unequal treatment in the form of lack of accommodations for Solomon’s
handicap, and an “overreaction” to the gun threat presented in this case.
 
The
opposition presents new allegations not pled in the operative complaint. As for
the actual allegations in the first amended complaint, in addition to the
detention allegations, Plaintiffs essentially plead a failure to provide
sufficient resources to Solomon, a handicapped child, and to protect him from
bullying students. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 27-29.] 
 
The
subject cause of action incorporates the prior allegations but otherwise only
offers a summary citation of the relied upon sections. Sections 200 and 201 in
fact only constitute policy statements regarding equal access and rights for
educational opportunities within the state, with section 260 vesting primary
authority for ensuring discrimination free schools with local school districts
as provided in section 220. “No person shall be subjected to discrimination on
the basis of disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any other
characteristic that is contained in the definition of hate crimes set forth in
Section 422.55 of the Penal Code, including immigration status, in any program
or activity conducted by an educational institution that receives, or benefits
from, state financial assistance, or enrolls pupils who receive state student
financial aid.” (Ed. Code, § 220.) 
 
The court declines to parse out the separate sections and
instead considers the sections for the stated public policy intention. In order
“to prevail on a claim under section 220 for peer sexual orientation
harassment, a plaintiff must show: (1) he or she suffered ‘severe, pervasive
and offensive’ harassment, that effectively deprived plaintiff of the right of
equal access to educational benefits and opportunities; (2) the school district
had ‘actual knowledge’ of that harassment; and (3) the school district acted
with ‘deliberate indifference’ in the face of such knowledge.” (Donovan v.
Poway Unified School Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 579.)
 
The argument in support of the motion only addresses the
allegations regarding the gun report incident, and otherwise offers no address
on the claims regarding the failure to provide school resources to Solomon, a
known handicapped student. The motion itself therefore fails to completely
address and offer a means for complete adjudication the claims presented in the
instant cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) The court
also finds triable issues of material fact on the subject claims via the
deposition of Thea Perkins who specifically states to the notice of Solomon as
a special needs child, requests for accommodation, and denial. [Declaration of
Christian Contreras, Ex. 2-3: Deposition of Thea Perkins, 19:14-19, 24:4-22,
90:3-91:20, 112:9-20.] The motion for summary adjudication is therefore denied.
 
5th
Cause of Action, Violation of Equal Protection Clause of the California
Constitution: Granted.
Defendants
present summary argument regarding the failure of the cause of action due to
lack of difference between special education and “regular” student enrollment,
as well as a defense of the response to the gun report. Plaintiff maintains
that Solomon was part of a protected group as a disabled student, and therefore
entitled to equal protection. 
 
“‘The first prerequisite to a meritorious claim under the
equal protection clause is a showing that the state has adopted a
classification that affects two or more similarly situated groups in an unequal
manner.’ (Citations.) This initial inquiry is not whether persons are similarly
situated for all purposes, but ‘whether they are similarly situated for
purposes of the law challenged.’” (Cooley v. Superior Court (2002) 29
Cal.4th 228, 253.) 
 
Defendant cites to a case directly addressing special needs
students and equal protection. “By definition, ‘special’ and ‘regular’
education students are not situated similarly with respect to the applicable
laws. As the complaint itself pleads, special education students require
special services including specially trained teachers, more teachers and
instructional aides and mental health services that regular students do not
need. And, as we explained at length in an earlier case, the purpose of the federal
special educational laws was to help states satisfy their responsibilities
under equal protection principles to provide adequate education to disabled
children.” (Grossmont Union High School Dist. v. State Dept. of Education
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 869, 892.)
 
Plaintiffs
cite to Education Code section 66270. The section states in relevant part: “No
person shall be subjected to discrimination on the basis of disability ... in
any program or activity conducted by any postsecondary educational institution
that receives, or benefits from, state financial assistance or enrolls students
who receive state student financial aid.” (Ed. Code, § 66270.) The court finds
the application to postsecondary institutions renders the section inapposite to
the subject cause of action. 
 
It
remains undisputed that Solomon was an identified special needs student.
Nothing in the recitation of equal protection language in any way establishes a
lack of equal protection as a special needs student relative to the regular
student population as a matter of law. No triable issues of material fact exist
in that Plaintiffs lack any evidence or supporting legal argument of a lack of
equal protection as a special needs student simply based on the alleged
improper withholding of resources accorded for special needs students. The
motion for summary adjudication is therefore granted.
 
6th
Cause of Action, False Imprisonment: Granted.
Defendants
challenge the subject cause of action on grounds that principal Nolte remains
effectively legally immune from a false imprisonment claim, due to the right of
a school administrator to detain and interview a student without the consent of
a parent. Plaintiff counters that the detention was for an effectively unlawful
purpose because Nolte was already aware that Solomon lacked a weapon in his
possession upon completion of the search. Plaintiff disputes any right to
detain a student by a school administrator. Plaintiff then proceeds to accuse
principal Nolte of engaging in a form of racial profiling against black
students like Solomon. 
 
Plaintiffs’
argument somewhat misstates the actual alleged conduct by describing the
detention of Solomon as taking him into “custody,” which Plaintiffs then seek
to invoke the provisions of Welfare and Institutions Code section 625 regarding
a law enforcement officer taking effectively arresting a juvenile. Nothing in
the operative complaint even uses the word custody. The plain language of
paragraph 61 only states “unlawful restraint and confinement.” Principal Nolte
called Solomon into the office, which was then followed up by the Sheriff
deputies response from the phone call. The court specifically decouples the
course of conduct between the action of principal Nolte, and the Sheriffs
presence. The conduct of the Sheriff deputy/ies is not at issue in the subject
motion. Nevertheless, given the claim of improper custody and the potential
invocation of Fourth Amendment argument, the court considers the argument under
this claim.
 
A
public school official exercises a certain amount of discretion in loco
parentis without the need for obtaining a warrant or otherwise in violation of
the Fourth Amendment. (Vernonia School Dist. 47J v. Acton (1995) 515
U.S. 646, 655-656.) Plaintiffs concede this point and rely on Education Code
section 44807 as a means of ascribing the conduct of principal Nolte as
arbitrary and unreasonable under the circumstances. “A teacher, vice principal,
principal, or any other certificated employee of a school district, shall not
be subject to criminal prosecution or criminal penalties for the exercise,
during the performance of his duties, of the same degree of physical control
over a pupil that a parent would be legally privileged to exercise but which in
no event shall exceed the amount of physical control reasonably necessary to
maintain order, protect property, or protect the health and safety of pupils,
or to maintain proper and appropriate conditions conducive to learning. ...” (Ed.
Code, § 44807.) 
 
The
argument under Education Code section 44807 and for improper custody dovetails
into consideration of qualified immunity. “The doctrine of qualified immunity
shields officials from civil liability so long as their conduct ‘does not
violate clearly established statutory or constitutional rights of which a
reasonable person would have known.’ (Citations.) A clearly established right
is one that is ‘sufficiently clear that every reasonable official would have
understood that what he is doing violates that right.’ (Citation.) ‘We do not
require a case directly on point, but existing precedent must have placed the
statutory or constitutional question beyond debate.’ (Citation). Put simply,
qualified immunity protects “all but the plainly incompetent or those who
knowingly violate the law.’ (Citation.)” (Mullenix v. Luna, supra,
577 U.S. at pp. 11–12 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
 
The
court finds no basis for a determination of unreasonableness in that the
statute provides plenary authority for the protection and welfare of students
and staff on a school campus. The detention itself, even if no weapon was found
on Solomon, in no way reasonably ended the inquiry given concern for potential
access to a weapon at the home of Solomon, and school regulatory requirements requiring
inquiry upon the determination of potential harm to the student or others.
[Nolte Decl., ¶¶ 17-21, 31-32; see Contreras Declaration, Ex. 2: Deposition of
Thea Perkins, 40:1-6.] Furthermore and again, principal Nolte only detained
Solomon until the Sheriff arrived and effectively took over the duration of the
questioning period. Ms. Perkins was also present during at least part of the
period with the Sheriffs as well, which, again, constitutes a separate period
of time in terms of the ability to exert a form of custody held by the law
enforcement officer. 
 
Again, to the extent the complaint depends on a claim of
improper “custody,” the court finds no triable issues of material fact
regarding the conduct of principal Nolte in the detention of Solomon pending
the arrival of the Sheriff as part of any larger civil rights deprivation or
civil liability claim. (Mullenix v. Luna, supra, 577 U.S. at pp.
11–12.) The court finds mere argument based on description of the circumstances
insufficiently overcomes the standard of a reasonable person (e.g. a school
administrator) adhering to a set of established guidelines for student safety
and encompassed within state standards for school administration. To the extent
Nolte acted on behalf of the school district, the court finds no basis of
liability against Saugus Union High School District. The motion for summary
adjudication is therefore granted. 
 
7th
Cause of Action, Violation of Americans with Disability Act: Denied.
Beginning
with the fourth cause of action, the court again returns to the statutory
rights based claims. Defendant solely challenges the subject cause of action on
grounds that the detention of Solomon lacks any evidence of racial motivation.
Plaintiffs in opposition counters that the claim arises from the failure to
accommodate Solomon, a student with disabilities. 
 
“A plaintiff bringing suit under section 504 or Title II of
the ADA must show: (1) she is a qualified individual with a disability; (2) she
was denied “a reasonable accommodation that [she] needs in order to enjoy
meaningful access to the benefits of public services;” and (3) the program
providing the benefit receives federal financial assistance.” (A.G. v.
Paradise Valley Unified School Dist. No. 69 (9th Cir. 2016) 815 F.3d 1195,
1204.) “An organization that receives federal funds violates § 504 if it denies
a qualified individual with a disability a reasonable accommodation that the
individual needs in order to enjoy meaningful access to the benefits of public
services.” (Mark H. v. Hamamoto (9th Cir. 2010) 620 F.3d 1090, 1097.)
“[T]o prevail on a claim for damages under section 504 and Title II, ‘plaintiffs
must prove a mens rea of “intentional discrimination” ... [and] that standard
may be met by showing “deliberate indifference,” ... not only by showing
‘discriminatory animus.’” (A.G. v. Paradise Valley Unified School Dist. No.
69, supra, 815 F.3d at p. 1204.)
 
Paragraphs 64-73 categorically identify Solomon as a
disabled person and the withholding of resources towards educational needs. The
actions were done with indifference. Nothing in the subject cause of action in
any way identifies the underlying search and detention incident. On this basis
alone, the court finds Defendants fail to sufficiently address the facts of the
subject cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1), (p)(2).)
Triable issues of material fact exist regarding the withholding of benefits
appearing as a form of “deliberate indifference” to the needs of Solomon given
the requests of Thea Perkins. [Nolte Decl., ¶¶ 39-41; Thea Perkins Depo.] The
motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
8th
Cause of Action, Violation of California Government Code section 11135 –
Discrimination Based on Disability: Denied.
Defendants
challenge the subject cause of action on grounds that Plaintiffs failed to
exhaust administrative remedies and fail to justify the need for equitable
relief. Plaintiffs counter that administrative remedies were exhausted, and
Plaintiffs properly seek injunctive relief enjoining further discrimination.
 
The
parties lack any dispute over the standard utilized for the ADA violations.
Other than a terse summary of the law and concluding arguments, the motion
itself lacks any actual factual or specific legal support regarding the failure
to exhaust administrative remedies or the insufficiency of equitable remedies.
The court declines to make the arguments for Defendants. The motion for summary
adjudication is denied for failure to sufficiently address the standard. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1), (p)(2).)
 
9th
Cause of Action, Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Violation of the Equal
Protection Clause: Denied.
Defendants
challenge the argument by citation to the standard, then transition to an
argument of qualified immunity for any and all actions arising from the search
and detention of Solomon. Plaintiff in opposition also cites to the standard,
and denies the application of qualified immunity in the underlying incident. 
 
Paragraph
83 of the operative complaint itself in fact relies on the withholding of
school resources, and it remains unclear how the search and detention incident
is part of the vaguely pled claim. Plaintiff in fact incorporates the arguments
regarding discrimination based on the wrongful withholding of resources to
Solomon. Again, the court declines to consider unmade arguments, or make the
case for Defendants. The court therefore denies the motion on the failure to
address the gravamen of the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1),
(p)(2).)
 
As
addressed above, the court invites supplemental briefing on the first, second
and third causes of action regarding the extension of the litigation privilege
and/or any other potentially applicable immunity. The court seeks briefing only
on the conduct of principal Nolte acting on behalf of Saugus Union High School
District, in regards to the search, questioning and detention of Solomon, while
Solomon was on the school campus as an enrolled student. The court will
disregard any and all other arguments unrelated to the underlying conduct of
principal Nolte in the first three causes of action should either party raise new
issues or seek to reargue anything. Pursuant to the standard for summary
judgment, will only consider the allegations as presented in the operative
pleading. 
 
The
court sets the hearing date on the supplemental briefing for the first, second
and third causes of action for January 26, 2024. The parties may submit
supplemental briefs of no more than five (5) pages of points and authorities,
with any additional declarations or citation to deposition testimony.
Defendants’ brief is due nine (9) days before the hearing (January 12, 2024,
Martin Luther King Court Holiday on January 15, 2024), and any reply/response
to the arguments five (5) days before the hearing (January 19, 2024). The
parties are only to submit briefs and supplemental evidence, if deemed
necessary. No additional separate statements. Any and all separately filed
evidentiary objections are due by noon three (3) court days before the hearing
(January 23, 2024), if applicable. Any points and authorities over five pages,
including efforts to load introduce new authority via the introduction or
within the declarations, will also be disregarded. 
 
Motion
to compel compliance with subpoena on calendar for December 13, 2023. Trial
date set for April 22, 2024.
 
Defendants
to give notice to all parties.
 