 Case Number:  22STCV38373    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
NICHOLAS SABBAGH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CULVER 12 LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38373
  Hearing Date: May 1, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff and cross-complainants’ motion
  for summary adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff
Nicholas Sabbagh filed this action against Defendant Culver 12 LLC, alleging
causes of action for (1) unlawful retention of security deposit, (2) breach of
lease, (3) negligence, and (4) conversion. Plaintiff alleges that he rented a
unit from Defendant and paid a $15,000 security deposit which was supposed to
be returned upon termination of the tenancy. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
improperly applied expenses against the deposit, resulting in nothing being
returned to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that this amounts to theft of the
security deposit.       
            On January 5, 2023, Defendant Culver
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Sachin Tejas Bettadapur, Alexander
Amir Rassouli, and Ashan Naik, alleging breach of lease. Plaintiff and the
other Cross-Defendants resided in the same unit. Culver alleges that the
tenants caused extensive damages to the unit which required more than $18,000
to repair. Culver therefore applied the full security deposit of $15,000
towards the repair. The tenants also allegedly kept a dog in violation of the
no-pet provision in the lease. Culver sues for the damage caused to the
premises by the tenants and their dog.  
            On March 15, 2023, Bettadapur,
Rassouli, and Naik, the tenants who shared the unit with Plaintiff, filed their
own cross-complaint against Culver, which is substantively identical to
Plaintiff’s complaint.
            On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff,
Bettadapur, Rassouli, and Naik (collectively, Moving Parties or tenants) filed a
motion for summary adjudication of the first, second, and fourth causes of
action in their respective complaints. The Court denied this motion as untimely
on January 3, 2024.
            Moving Parties refiled their motion
on February 5, 2024. Culver filed its opposition on April 15, 2024. Moving
Parties filed their reply on April 23, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish each
element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once
the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Culver’s
Objections to Moving Parties’ Evidence

Culver’s objections are
     overruled.

Moving
Parties’ Objections to Culver’s Evidence

The following objections are
     sustained: 7, 16-19.
The following objections are
     overruled: 14-15, 20. 
The remaining objections are
     improperly directed at excerpts from Culver’s opposition brief or separate
     statement of facts. Culver’s legal arguments and summary of facts are not
     items of evidence that can be objected to.   

DISCUSSION
I.
Summary Adjudication of Multiple Pleadings
            Culver argues that Moving Parties
improperly move for summary adjudication of claims in both Plaintiff’s
complaint and the other tenants’ cross-complaint. Culver also argues that
Moving Parties reference themselves as “Plaintiffs” even though the only plaintiff
is Plaintiff Sabbagh, and the remaining tenants are cross-complainants. Lastly,
Culver argues that Plaintiff Sabbagh cannot testify as to the harm suffered by
the other co-tenants.
            Culver cites no authority suggesting
that it is improper to move for summary adjudication of claims in multiple
pleadings, especially where, as here, the claims are substantively identical.
The requirement for summary adjudication is that it “completely disposes of a
cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f).) There is no additional requirement that
the claims come from a single pleading. The use of “Plaintiffs” has not
resulted in any confusion or misidentification. It is clear who the Moving
Parties are: the four tenants who resided in the subject premises. Plaintiff
Sabbagh is competent to testify to the fact that the four tenants collectively
paid and lost the $15,000 security deposit. Therefore, these are not reasons to
deny the motion. 
II.
Separately Filed Evidence
            “If evidence in support of or in
opposition to a motion exceeds 25 pages, the evidence must be separately bound
and must include a table of contents.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1350(g).)
Culver argues that the motion must be denied because Moving Parties attached
their evidence to their points and authorities rather than filing it
separately. Culver does not claim that this made it more difficult to review
Moving Parties’ evidence, nor does Culver otherwise articulate any prejudice.
Therefore, the Court proceeds on the merits.    

III.
Unlawful Retention of Security Deposit 
A landlord may impose a deposit at the
beginning of a tenancy to reimburse various costs, including “[t]he repair of damages
to the premises, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, caused by the tenant or
by a guest or licensee of the tenant.” (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(b).) “The landlord
may claim of the security only those amounts as are reasonably necessary for
the purposes specified in subdivision (b).” (Id., § 1950.5(e).) “The
elements of an action for wrongful retention of a security deposit under Civil
Code section 1950.5 are: (1) the plaintiff paid a security deposit; (2) the
security deposit was for a residential property; (3) the plaintiff used the
property as a dwelling; and (4) the amounts deducted by the defendant were not
reasonably necessary.” (Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks Property Owner,
LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 899.) A landlord “must return the entire
deposit to the tenant” if he fails to abide by the summary deduct-and-retain
procedure of Section 1950.5. (Granberry v. Islay Investments (1995) 9
Cal.4th 738, 745.)   
Here, it is undisputed that Moving Parties
paid a security deposit for a residential property that they used as a
dwelling. (Plntf.’s Undisputed Facts (UF) 2-4.) The primary issue is whether
Culver improperly retained or deducted the deposit. Moving Parties contend that
Culver has indisputably failed to comply with Section 1950.5, subdivisions (f)
and (g) and therefore should have returned the entire deposit. 
a. Right to Inspection (Subdivision (f)) 
“Within a reasonable time after
notification of either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy, or before
the end of the lease term, the landlord shall notify the tenant in writing of
the tenant’s option to request an initial inspection and of the tenant’s right
to be present at the inspection.” (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(f)(1).)  
Here, Moving Parties provided notice in
June 2022 that they would not be renewing the lease. (UF 6.) Moving Parties
argue that Culver did not provide any notice afterwards of a right to
inspection prior to Moving Parties vacating the unit. (UF 8.) As a result,
Moving Parties argue they did not have the opportunity to cure defects to avoid
deductions from the security deposit. However, Section 25(C) of the lease
provides that “[a]fter giving or receiving notice of termination of a tenancy .
. . Tenant has the right to request that an inspection of the Premises take
place prior to termination of the lease.” (See Plntf.’s Ex. 1.) A reasonable
trier of fact may find that this constitutes the written notice required by
subdivision (f), and that the tenants simply did not exercise the right to
inspect. The statute provides that the notice must be provided either “[w]ithin
a reasonable time after notification of either party’s intention to terminate
the tenancy, or before the end of the lease term.” (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(f)(1).)
The notice in the lease was provided before the end of the lease term.
Therefore, there is a triable issue as to Culver’s compliance with subdivision
(f).    
b. Itemized Statement and Return of
Deposit (Subdivision (g))
“No later than 21 calendar days after the
tenant has vacated the premises . . . the landlord shall furnish the tenant, by
personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of an
itemized statement indicating the basis for, and the amount of, any security
received and the disposition of the security, and shall return any remaining
portion of the security to the tenant.” (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(g)(1).) “[T]he
landlord and the tenant may also agree to have the landlord provide a copy of
the itemized statement along with the copies required by paragraph (2) to an
email account provided by the tenant.” (Ibid.)
Here, Culver sent the itemized statement
by email rather than personal service or regular mail. (UF 13.) The parties had
not previously agreed to exchange the itemized statement by email. (UF 15.)
Culver did not return the security deposit within 21 days of the tenants
vacating the premises. (UF 12.) Culver does not dispute these facts, nor does
Culver dispute that this constitutes a violation of subdivision (g). Therefore,
Moving Parties have satisfied their initial burden of establishing a violation
of subdivision (g).
Culver argues that this is an immaterial
technical violation because the tenants still received the itemized statement
and do not contest its contents, and Culver did not act in bad faith. However,
Culver cannot escape liability by unilaterally deciding that a statutory
requirement is not important enough to be followed. The Legislature has
expressly required the itemized statement and supporting documentation to be
personally delivered or sent by mail unless the parties agree to email. Nothing
indicates that this requirement is optional. It is part of the summary
deduct-and-retain procedure that a landlord must follow in order to retain any
portion of the security deposit. (See
Granberry, supra, 9 Cal.4th at p. 745.) Furthermore, bad faith is not
required to establish a violation of the statute. Civil Code section 1950.5(l)
provides for additional penalties and damages if the landlord’s retention of a
security deposit is found to be in bad faith. Subdivision (l) does not
mean that a landlord’s retention is wrongful only if done in bad faith.
Therefore, whether Culver acted in good or bad faith does not affect whether it
violated the statute and does not serve to raise a triable issue.      
Culver also argues that the tenants made
compliance impossible by refusing to provide their addresses or informing
Culver how much each tenant is owed. However, the tenants clearly offered to
provide “any info from us to confirm where to send [the deposit].” (Plntf.’s
Ex. 5.) Culver’s PMQ acknowledged receiving this text. (Plntf.’s Ex. 8 (Kawa
Depo.) 52:14-24.) There is no evidence that Culver asked for the address or
that the tenants refused to provide it. Furthermore, the statute provides that
“[i]f the tenant does not provide an address, mailings pursuant to this
subdivision shall be sent to the unit that has been vacated.” (Civ. Code, §
1950.5(g)(6).) Lastly, the lease provides that “[a]ny security deposit returned
by check shall be made out to all Tenants named on this Agreement.” (Plntf.’s
Ex. A, § 4(C).) Therefore, Culver did not need to divide the amount between each
tenant in order to return the deposit. 
Ultimately, Culver has not presented
“substantial responsive evidence” raising a triable issue. (See Sangster,
supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at p.
166.) Therefore, Moving Parties have established as a matter of law that Culver
violated at least one provision of Section 1950.5 and therefore wrongfully
retained the security deposit. (See Granberry, supra, 9 Cal.4th at
p. 745.)    
IV.
Breach of Contract
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
Here, the lease
is indisputably a valid contract, and Moving Parties indisputably performed
their obligation to provide a security deposit at the start of the lease. Moving
Parties argue that Culver breached the lease because the lease required Culver
to provide an itemized statement and supporting documentation “as required by
California Civil Code § 1950.5(g)” (Plntf.’s Ex. 1, § 4(B)), and Culver did not
do so.  
Culver argues
that it could not have breached the contract by failing to notify Moving
Parties of their right to a pre-moveout inspection because the lease expressly notified
the tenants of such inspection at Paragraph 25(C). However, this does not
address the requirement under Section 1950.5(g) to properly provide an itemized
statement and return the unused portion of the security deposit within 21 days.
Culver does not dispute that its method of transmitting the itemized statement,
and failure to remit the deposit within 21 days, violated subdivision (g). Culver
argues that its violation of the technical requirements of the statute does not
amount to a breach of contract. However, the contract required Culver to act in
accordance with Section 1950.5(g). (Plntf.’s Ex. 1, § 4(B).) Therefore, failure
to abide by the statute would constitute a breach of contract. Moving Parties
naturally suffered damage in the loss of their security deposit. Accordingly,
Moving Parties have established a breach of contract as a matter of law.    
V. Conversion
The elements of
conversion are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the
personal property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages. (Welco Electronics, Inc. v.
Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 208.) The court in Aljabban v. Fontana
Indoor Swap Meet, Inc. (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 482, 508-09 found that the
withholding of a security deposit supported the plaintiff’s conversion claim. The
$15,000 deposit is an identifiable sum of money that is capable of being
converted. (See PCO,
Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 384, 395.) 
Culver argues
that there are triable issues as to whether it “wrongfully” attempted to retain
the property. Culver points out that it never stated the security deposit would
be retained to pay for damages caused by the tenants. (Culver’s Additional
Facts (AF) No. D.) Instead, Culver contends that it tried to return the
deposit, but the tenants did not provide a forwarding address or bank
information. (Ibid.) However, as discussed above, the tenants offered to
provide the necessary information, and both the statute and lease provide for
ways to remit the deposit without that information. Culver’s retention of the
deposit was a wrongful act because it was done in violation of the statute. The
fact that Culver never intended to keep the deposit to pay for repairs does not
negate the fact that Culver retained the deposit past 21 days in violation of
the statute. (See Welco, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 208 [conversion is
a strict liability tort with no consideration of good faith or motive].)
Culver also
argues that it sent a check for $15,000 to Moving Parties’ attorney, who then
refused to cash it because Moving Parties desired to proceed with the
litigation. As a result, Culver argues that it is the attorney who has
“dominion and control” over the money, not Culver. This position is unsupported
by law or fact. Culver’s attempt to pay $15,000 after the lawsuit was
filed does not negate the conversion that already occurred. Furthermore,
evidence of settlement offers or related communications is inadmissible to
prove the invalidity of a claim. (Evid. Code, §§ 1152, 1154.) Therefore, there
is no triable issue that Culver converted the security deposit. 
VI. Affirmative
Defenses
            A
plaintiff moving for summary judgment does not have the initial burden of
disproving any and all affirmative defenses. (Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564-65.) If the
plaintiff satisfies its initial burden of establishing each element of a claim,
the defendant opposing summary judgment may raise a triable issue using an
affirmative defense. (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) Culver
relies on its affirmative defenses based on estoppel, waiver, unclean hands,
and mitigation of damages.
            
a.
Estoppel
            “To
prove equitable estoppel, one must show (1) a representation or concealment of
material facts; (2) made with knowledge, actual or virtual, of the facts;
(3) to a party ignorant, actually and permissibly, of the truth; (4) with the
intention, actual or virtual, that the ignorant party act on it; and (5) the
ignorant party relied on it.” (Oldcastle, supra, 170 Cal.App.4th at p.
571.) 
            Culver
relies on its argument that Moving Parties withheld their forwarding address
and banking information such that Culver could not remit the deposit. As
discussed above, there is no evidence that Moving Parties intentionally
concealed the information from Culver. There is also no evidence that Moving
Parties withheld the information with the intent that Culver would rely on the
omission and retain the deposit. Lastly, there was no concealment of “material
facts” because Culver could have remitted the deposit even without the
information. (See Civ. Code, § 1950.5(g)(6); Plntf.’s Ex. A, § 4(C).)
Therefore, Culver has failed to raise a triable issue on its estoppel defense. 
            b. Waiver
            “Waiver
requires the intentional relinquishment of a known right upon knowledge of the
facts.” (Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Torres Construction Corp.
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 480, 504.) “[W]aiver may also stem from conduct ‘which,
according to its natural import, is so inconsistent with an intent to enforce
the right as to induce a reasonable belief that such right has been
relinquished.’” (Savaglio v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 598.)      
            Culver
reiterates its argument that Moving Parties “refused” to provide the requisite
information. The evidence does not show Moving Parties “refusing” to provide
anything, and in fact shows the opposite. (See Plntf.’s Ex. 5.) The fact that
Moving Parties asked for their deposit back, offered to provide the information
needed for that to occur, and hired an attorney to sue for recovery of the
deposit, is consistent with their right to the deposit. There is no evidence
that Moving Parties intentionally relinquished their right to the deposit or
acted inconsistently with that right. Therefore, Culver has failed to raise a
triable issue on its waiver defense. 
            c. Unclean Hands
            The doctrine of unclean hands is a defense that bars a plaintiff from
seeking relief if he has committed wrongdoing himself because it would be
inequitable to allow a wrongdoer to benefit from his own wrongdoing. (Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. V. Sup. Ct. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978.) For unclean hands to apply, the
plaintiff’s wrongdoing must be directly related to the claims at issue. (Id. at p. 979.) 
            For
the same reasons discussed above, there is no evidence that Moving Parties
engaged in any wrongdoing related to their claims. There is no evidence
indicating intentional concealment or deception preventing Culver from
returning the deposit. Rejecting an offer of payment after litigation has begun
is not evidence of wrongdoing, and the offer is inadmissible to prove the
invalidity of Moving Parties’ claims. (Evid. Code, § 1152, 1154.) 
            d.
Mitigation of Damages
            “The
doctrine of mitigation of damages holds that ‘[a] plaintiff who suffers damage
as a result of either a breach of contract or a tort has a duty to take
reasonable steps to mitigate those damages and will not be able to recover for
any losses which could have been thus avoided.’” (Valle
De Oro Bank v. Gamboa (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 1686, 1691.) 
            Culver
argues that Moving Parties failed to mitigate their damages because they
rejected multiple offers from Culver to pay back the $15,000 deposit. For the
reasons established above, Moving Parties’ rejection of Culver’s offer after
litigation began cannot be used against them. Culver cites no authority for the
proposition that the doctrine of mitigation requires a plaintiff to accept
offers of compromise during litigation. Furthermore, mitigation refers to the
plaintiff’s obligation to “avoid continuing or enhanced damages
through reasonable efforts.” (Valle De Oro Bank,
supra, 26 Cal.App.4th at p. 1691.) Here, Moving Parties lost
their $15,000 deposit when Culver failed to return it. There were no continuing
or enhanced damages for Moving Parties to avoid. Therefore, Culver has failed
to raise a triable issue on its mitigation defense.   
CONCLUSION
            The
motion for summary adjudication filed by Plaintiff, Bettadapur,
Rassouli, and Naik is GRANTED. 
 