 Case Number:  24STCV00523    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
KEILYN MEDINA ALCERRO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HARDAGE HOSPITALITY, 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV00523
  Hearing Date:  May 1, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for protective order 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Keilyn
Medina Alcerro filed this employment discrimination action against Defendant
Hardage Hospitality and Does 1 through 50. Plaintiff alleges that she was
abruptly fired after suffering a work-related injury and requesting
accommodation. Plaintiff alleges that she was falsely accused of sexual
harassment as a pretext to terminate her. 
            On March 21, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion for a protective order absolving it of the obligation to
respond to certain discovery requests to the extent they seek the personal
information of any employee who observed, was subjected to, or reported sexual
battery against Plaintiff. (Notice of Mtn. 2:4-9.) Alternatively, Defendant
requests a protective order allowing it to designate the information as
“Confidential” or “Attorney’s Eyes Only.” (Id. at 2:9-12.) Plaintiff
filed its opposition on April 18, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on April 24,
2024.  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The recipient of a discovery request may
move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, 2031.060,
2033.080.) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Ibid.) “The
issuance and formulation of protective orders are to a large extent
discretionary.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 316.) “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.” (Id. at p. 318.)

DISCUSSION
“The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) “The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected
information to establish direct relevance.” (Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.)
            Confidential personnel files at a
person’s place of employment are within a zone of privacy. (See Board of
Trustees v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516,
528-30.) At the same time, “[t]he disclosure of the names and addresses of
potential witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial discovery.”
(Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1249-50.) Here,
Plaintiff alleges that she was wrongly terminated, while Defendant maintains
that it legitimately terminated Plaintiff due to sexual harassment. Having
raised that defense, Defendant cannot prevent Plaintiff from testing its
veracity and proving that Defendant’s proffered justification is pretextual.
The information is directly relevant, and Plaintiff’s need for the information
outweighs the privacy concerns. Therefore, Defendant cannot be wholly absolved
from responding to the subject discovery. 
            Due to the nature of the case and
the information sought, a protective order limiting usage of the material may
be warranted. However, a “Highly Confidential” or “Attorney’s Eyes Only”
designation is unwarranted because Plaintiff is entitled to personally view the
evidence in order to assist with the preparation of her own case. Plaintiff’s
counsel should not be left to speculate as to the significance of the evidence
without the benefit of Plaintiff’s own account or explanation. Defendant cannot
accuse Plaintiff of sexual assault as a justification for terminating her and
then prevent her from reviewing the purported evidence of same. Defendant’s
summary assertion that “only Plaintiff’s lawyers need that information in order
to effectively conduct discovery” is unavailing. (See Reply 5:3-4.) Defendant cannot
unilaterally decide what information Plaintiff needs to see to effectively
litigate the case.       
            Defendant’s confidence that it has
produced sufficient information to prove the alleged harassment has no bearing
on Plaintiff’s right to view the evidence. The merits of the case have yet to
be resolved. Plaintiff is entitled to contest Defendant’s legal theories and
question Defendant’s evidence. Defendant has provided no indication that
Plaintiff is at risk of using the information to retaliate against the
witnesses who reported the alleged incident. There is no evidence that
Plaintiff has made any threats or taken any action that could be interpreted as
retaliatory. The fact that Plaintiff filed this lawsuit is not evidence that
she intends on retaliating against those responsible for her termination.
Plaintiff is entitled to assert that her termination was unlawful and to select
the legal theories upon which to sue. Defendant’s belief that the complaint is
meritless does not preclude Plaintiff from building her case. This motion is
not the proper mechanism to litigate the merits of the case, and no finding can
be made at this stage about whether Defendant has adequately proven that
Plaintiff harassed a coworker. 
            In sum, Plaintiff is entitled to
discover the information at issue and cannot be prevented from personally
viewing the discovery. However, a protective order is warranted to limit usage
of the information to this litigation. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion for protective
order is GRANTED in part as set forth above. Production shall be subject to a
protective order. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial
justification.  