 Case Number:  24TRCV01216    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended ComplaintMoving Party: Defendants Beach Front Property Management, Inc. And 745-747 Venice Way(f/k/a and erroneously sued as L and P Assoc.)Responding Party: NoneRULINGThe court considered the moving papers and opposition. Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety with twenty (20) days leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn April 11, 2024, Plaintiff Stephanie Armstrong (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against 745-747 Venice Way; Beach Front Property Management, Inc.; L and P Assoc.; and DOES 1-100, inclusive.On June 20, 2024, 745-747 Venice Way and Beach Front Property Management, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint.On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint alleging causes of action for (1) Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.4; (2) Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (3) Private Nuisance; (4) Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.; and (5) Negligence; (6) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (8) Negligence Per Se; (9) Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Civil Code section 1750, et. seq.; (10) Violation of the City of Inglewood Rent Ordinance, Inglewood Municipal Code Section 8-125, et seq.; and (11) False Advertising in Violation of California Business and Professions Code Section 17500, et seq.On September 10, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion. On October 3, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff resides at 745-747 Venice Way, a property (the “Property”) which falls under Inglewood’s Rent Ordinance (“IRO”). (FAC, ¶ 1-2.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to maintain the Property, leading to vermin infestations, plumbing issues, improperly sealed windows, poor ventilation, and inoperable smoke detectors and air conditioning. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff alleges that these poor conditions were concealed from her before she signed the lease. (FAC, ¶ 28.)Every few months, Plaintiff filed a maintenance request, but Defendants failed to make any substantial repairs. (FAC, ¶ 33.) Because of the poor living conditions, Plaintiff has suffered bug bites and difficulty breathing. (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 59.)Plaintiff seeks punitive damages, based on allegations that Defendants’ employees knew of Plaintiff’s poor living conditions and failed to fix them. (FAC, ¶ 133.) Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that the building manager and “handman Joe” harassed her because of her race and laughed at her when she reported the maintenance issues. (FAC, ¶ 133.)Defendants now seek to strike portions of the FAC which seek punitive and exemplary damages.LEGAL STANDARDThe court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., §436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Code of Civil Procedure section 431.10 states, “(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following: (1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense. (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint. (c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in Section 436.”DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendants contend that Plaintiff makes conclusory allegations without providing any supporting facts.Opposing Party’s ArgumentsAs a preliminary matter, the court notes that Plaintiff’s opposition was filed late. The court exercises its discretion to consider an untimely opposition, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d).Plaintiff argues that it has pleaded with sufficient particularity to support a claim for punitive damages.Merits of the MotionIn non-contract actions, punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)Further, an employer for the acts of its employees under Civ. Code section 3294, subd. (a) “unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages should be stricken from the FAC because Plaintiff only makes conclusory allegations of malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive behavior. Further, Defendants argue that it cannot be liable for the acts of its employees because Plaintiff does not properly allege that Defendants ratified their conduct. Plaintiff argues that Defendants and their employees knew of Plaintiff’s dangerous living conditions and failed to fix them, which is enough to support a claim for punitive damages.Under the circumstances, the court finds that Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages. As the court noted in a previous ruling, a landlord’s refusal to fix a defect despite having knowledge of the defect and its potential consequences, absent other facts, is not enough to establish malice. (McDonell v. American Trust Company (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 296, 297-299.) Plaintiff also makes vague allegations of retaliation, harassment, and racial discrimination but fails to provide any supporting facts. The only behavior Plaintiff alleges with specificity is that “handman Joe” laughed at her when she made maintenance requests, which is not behavior that rises to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud.Plaintiff also alleges that the corporate Defendants had notice of the building manager and “handman Joe’s” unfitness as employees due to a previous lawsuit. Despite this notice, Defendants continued to employ the two and ratified their behavior. However, as discussed above, the alleged behavior does not rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud. Thus, Plaintiff has not stated sufficient facts to support a claim of punitive damages.Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Plaintiff’s FAC contains some allegations, such as race-based harassment and retaliation, which could support a claim for punitive damages. Thus, the court finds that there is some possibility of successful amendment.Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety with twenty (20) days leave to amend.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED in its entirety with 20 days leave to amend.Defendants to give notice.