  Case Number:  22TRCV01160    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena and Request for SanctionsMoving Parties: Plaintiff Melinda StansburyResponding Party: Defendant SE Pipeline ConstructionRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers and opposition. Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn November 3, 2022, Plaintiff Melinda Stansbury (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (the “City”) and DOES 1-25, inclusive, alleging a cause of action for (1) premises liability.On March 3, 2023, the City filed a cross-complaint against ROES 1-10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) indemnification.On June 9, 2023, the City amended their cross-complaint to substitute ROE 2 for SE Pipeline Construction (“SE Pipeline”). Five days later, Plaintiff amended her complaint to substitute DOE 2 for SE Pipeline.On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. SE Pipeline filed an opposition on September 26, 2024.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis action arises from a trip and fall caused by a deteriorated sidewalk. (Motion, p. 4, lines 2-5.) Plaintiff received treatment from the Los Angeles Fire Department (“LAFD”), and SE Pipeline now seeks to obtain LAFD’s records regarding this incident. (Motion, p. 4, lines 8-10.)SE Pipeline seeks to obtain the following information from LAFD:Any and all documents, paper and digital records pertaining to care, treatment and examination, including but not limited to, all office, emergency room, inpatient / outpatient charts either in hard copy or electronic and/or faxed. Any and all records specific to Melinda Joanne Stansbury, born on June 11, 1952, from the date of the accident, 11/28/2021, are to be produced.Please provide breakdown of films and or studies reflecting body parts, dates taken, number of films and or studies, with associated cost for approval prior to production. Any and all records of payment and /or discount regarding any medical billing as well as the bills themselves, billing information, including but not limited to procedure and diagnosis codes, statements, computer printouts, itemized breakdown of all charges, payments, adjustments/write-offs or balance due, including but not limited to, all charges, credits, payments, adjustments and/or write-offs, and the sources of each, such as all EOBs from any insurance carrier reflecting any and all credits and adjustments and write-offs to the bills by virtue of any payments and/or contractual agreements/adjustments, including fees, etc. for professional services including Medicare (7G37-M48-G65), Health Net (200F50;R11656631), etc., pertaining to Melinda Stansbury, born on June 11, 1952, from the date of the accident, 11/28/2021. To include all electronic communications from and to the patient. Include records LAFD Medical Records.(Motion, p. 3, lines 7-19.)LEGAL STANDARDWhen a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms and conditions as the court may specify. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal.2d 206.)The court can make an order quashing or modifying a subpoena as necessary to protect a person from “unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)The right of privacy of individuals is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.) In ruling on discovery motions, the Court must balance the privacy claims of the responding party with the requesting party’s need for the information. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 718-722.) In determining whether the privacy rights outweigh the need for the disclosure, the court employs a balancing test. Constitutional rights are only abridged where there is a compelling public interest. (White v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 757, 775.) “If the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the privacy interest at stake against other competing interests, which include the interest of the requesting party, fairness to litigants in conducting the litigation, and the consequences of granting or restricting access to the information.” (Snibbe v. Superior Court (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 184, 194.) The party seeking disclosure must show that the information is directly relevant to the lawsuit, essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit, and the need for the disclosure outweighs the privacy interests that are involved. (Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1428.) The court may also take into account whether less intrusive means exist to obtain the information. (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 655-656.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff contends the subpoenas are too broad because they are not limited to the body parts which were injured.Opposing Party’s ArgumentSE Pipeline argues that the subpoena is sufficiently limited because it only seeks records from the date of the incident. Moreover, Plaintiff has already provided the records SE Pipeline seeks. SE Pipeline requested the documents from LAFD because LAFD will be able to properly authenticate the documents.Merits of the MotionA. Scope of the SubpoenaSE Pipeline, as the party seeking the disclosure of Plaintiff’s medical records, has the burden of showing that the information sought is directly relevant to the litigation and that the need for this information outweighs Plaintiff’s right to privacy.Here, SE Pipeline asserts that Plaintiff has waived her right to privacy in the LAFD documents because she has placed them directly at issue by claiming the cost of the LAFD treatment as part of her damages. Plaintiff has already provided the relevant documents in response to another discovery request, so she has no basis to object to the instant subpoena. SE Pipeline contends thatit only served this subpoena so that LAFD may provide the requested documents along with a declaration from the custodian of the records, which is necessary for properly authenticating the documents at trial. Moreover, SE Pipeline argues that any privacy concerns are minimal because the subpoena seeks records from a single day.The court finds that SE Pipeline has sufficiently explained how the subpoena is limited to relevant information and not overly invasive of Plaintiff’s privacy.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to quash or modify the subpoena is DENIED.B. SanctionsPursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. section 1987.2, subd. a, the court may award sanctions “if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”Code of Civ. Proc. section 2023.030, subd. (a) states that the court may impose monetary sanctions against on a party “unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.”Plaintiff seeks to impose sanctions on SE Pipeline in the amount of $1,560.00. SE Pipeline seeks to impose sanctions on Plaintiff in the amount of $3,117.50 for 14.5 hours of work responding to this motion.The court finds that SE Pipeline’s request for sanctions is warranted. However, the court finds that 14.5 hours is an excessive amount of time to spend defending against this motion. Accordingly, the court awards SE Pipeline sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,827.50 (8.5 hours x $215 = $1,827.50).CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash or modify subpoena and request for sanctions is DENIED. The court imposes monetary sanctions on Plaintiff in the amount of $1,827.50.SE Pipeline to give notice.