  Case Number:  23LBCV01122    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno (“Moreno”) filed this action against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ybarra (“Ybarra”) on June 22, 2023. The form complaint alleges no facts but seeks compensatory damages in the amount of $700,000. On February 20, 2024, Ybarra filed a cross-complaint against Moreno, alleging causes of action for assault andintentional infliction of emotional distress. The cross-complaint alleges that Moreno accosted Ybarra while with his wife and threatened to inflict grievous bodily harm upon Ybarra, by pointing a weapon toward them, while verbally assaulting Ybarra.Motion to Compel DepositionAny party may obtain discovery … by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) CCP section¿2025.450(a) provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)Where a party objects to the deposition, the proper remedy is an objection under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410. If such an objection is made within three calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party must make personal service of that objection. (Code Civ. Proc. 2025.410, subd. (b).) CCP section¿2025.450(b) provides:¿“A motion under subdivision (a)… shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿ (Id., § 2025.450(b).)Ybarra submits the Declaration of Angelica Chopuryan, which adequately shows Counsel attempted to meet and confer prior to bringing this motion to compel deposition, and to inquire about the non-appearance. (Chopuryan Decl., ¶ 5.)On February 23, 2024, Ybarra served on Moreno a notice of deposition and request for product of documents, set for March 28, 2024. (Chopuryan Decl., Exh. A) Moreno failed to object to the deposition notice. On March 28, 2024, Moreno failed to appear and produce documents.As Moreno was properly served with the notice of deposition, did not object, and failed to appear, the Motion to Compel t Moreno to appear for deposition is GRANTED. Moreno is ordered to appear for deposition at a date to be determined at the hearing on this motion.Request for Production of Documents in Deposition NoticeAs to the request for production of documents in the deposition notice, a request for production of documents in a deposition notice merely requires that the documents identified are to be produced by the deponent at the deposition. (CCP § 2025.280.) Thus, a request for documents in conjunction with a deposition notice is not the equivalent of arequest for production of documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq.Here, a request to compel documents under the deposition subpoena is premature as no deposition has yet occurred. Rather, if documents are not produced at the deposition, Ybarra may then move to compel Moreno to produce the documents. (See CCP § 2025.480; see also CCP §2025.460(e).)Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set OneIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.)On February 23, 2024, Ybarra served Moreno with Form Interrogatories, set one. (Chopuryan Decl., Ex. A.) Responses to these Form Interrogatories were due on March 29, 2024. To date, there has been no response to the discovery. (Id., ¶ 3.) As Ybarra properly served discovery requests and Moreno failed to serve responses, Ybarra’s Motion to Compel Moreno to provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Moreno is ordered to provide verified responses, without objection, to Ybarra’s request for Form Interrogatories, Set One, by June 17, 2024.SanctionsThe Court is not inclined to award monetary sanctions against Moreno, who is self-represented. Further discovery violations or non-compliance with future discovery request could result in the imposition of monetary, or even terminating sanctions, if Moreno continues to abandon his obligations to participate in litigation.TENTATIVE RULINGThe Motion to Compel Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno to appear for deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno is ordered to appear for deposition by June 17, 2024. Defendant/Cross-Complaint Ybarra to give notice of new date, time and location for deposition.The request to compel documents under the deposition subpoena is premature as no deposition has yet occurred. Rather, if documents are not produced at the deposition, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ybarra may then move to compel Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno to produce the documents.The Motion to Compel Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno to provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno is ordered to provide verified responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Request for Form Interrogatories, Set One, by June 17, 2024.The Court declines to impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff, who is currently self-represented. Future non-compliance with discovery requests, however, could result in monetary or potentially terminating sanctions.