 Case Number:  24PSCV01679    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Jason
Brown v. Stacy Lee, et al. 
R.
Bret Beattie’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Jason Brown 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion of R. Bret Beattie of Eisenberg Law
Group PC to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Jason Brown, on the condition
that Counsel submits a revised proposed order with
the current hearing dates and corresponding information and serves defendant
Tri-City Mental Health Authority with a copy of the same. Upon the Court
signing the revised proposed order, Counsel must serve copies of the signed
order on Plaintiff and Tri-City Mental Health Authority. 
            Counsel is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a personal injury action. On May 23, 2024, plaintiff Jason
Brown (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Stacy Lee, Tri-City
Mental Health Authority (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 to 50, alleging
causes of action for negligence/dangerous condition of public property,
negligence, and premises liability. 
On November 20, 2024, R. Bret Beattie of Eisenberg Law Group PC
moved to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The Court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and
such a motion should be granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.) 
A motion to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all
parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
            R. Bret
Beattie of Eisenberg Law Group PC (Counsel) seeks to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiff on the grounds that there has been an irreconcilable breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. (Eisenberg Decl., ¶ 2.)[1] The Court finds this proper. A breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is
grounds for allowing the attorney to withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987)
188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) 
Counsel has also submitted the application, declaration, and
proposed order on Judicial Council forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) Accordingly, the Court
finds Counsel has met the requirements for permissive withdrawal. 
            However, the
Court notes some of the hearing dates in this matter have changed since Counsel
moved to be relieved as counsel, and that defendant Tri-City Mental Health
Authority has since appeared in this action by filing an answer to the
complaint on December 16, 2024. The Court therefore directs Counsel to submit a
revised proposed order with the current hearing dates and corresponding
information and to serve defendant Tri-City Mental Health Authority with a copy
of the same. Upon the Court signing the revised proposed order, Counsel must
serve copies of the signed order on Plaintiff and Tri-City Mental Health
Authority. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of R. Bret Beattie of Eisenberg Law
Group PC to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Jason Brown, on the condition
that Counsel submits a revised proposed order with
the current hearing dates and corresponding information and serves defendant
Tri-City Mental Health Authority with a copy of the same. Upon the Court
signing the revised proposed order, Counsel must serve copies of the signed
order on Plaintiff and Tri-City Mental Health Authority. 
            Counsel is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.


