  Case Number:  21BBCV00679    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



DIRECT CAPITAL CORPORATION
  and CIT BANK, N.A.
 
                                           
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
CINEMILLS
  CORPORATION; CARLOS DIDIER DEMATTOS; MARCOS MICHAEL DEMATTOS; and DOES 1
  through 10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 21BBCV00679
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, ALTERNATIVELY,
  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION; AND DENYING SUMMARY JUDGMENT AS TO THE FIRST AMENDED
  CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date:   January
  19, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



And Cross-Action                                          )
          
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          This action stems from a loan
agreement between Plaintiffs and Defendants. The loan was for the purpose of financing
the purchase of lighting equipment. The loan gives Plaintiffs a security
interest in the equipment purchased. Defendants defaulted. Plaintiffs
repossessed the equipment, sold it for $1,000, and sued for the $105,865.13 deficiency.

          
          Plaintiffs Cit Bank and Direct Capital Corporation
(collectively Plaintiffs) filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication, on October 27, 2023. Defendants filed an
opposition on December 28, 2023. Plaintiffs filed a reply on January 5, 2024.
          For the reasons set forth below, the motion for summary judgment/summary
adjudication must be denied.
 
          II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice:
The
declaration of Barry W. Ferns purports to contain a request for judicial notice.  However, it is unclear specifically what the
Court is being asked to take judicial notice of, and under what section of the
Evidence Code judicial notice is authorized.
          Accordingly, the Court declines to grant Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice.  
 
          III. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendants’ Objections to
the Declaration of Barry W. Ferns (4)[1]:
The following objections are
overruled: 7 (has foundation)
The following objections are
sustained: 5, 6, Exh. B
 
Defendants’ Objections to
the Declaration of Michael Connell (1)[2]:
The following objections are
overruled: none
The following objections are
sustained: 15
 
Plaintiffs’ Objections to
the Declaration of Marcos DeMattos (31):
The following objections are
overruled: 1, 2, 3 (not hearsay), 4 (has foundation), 5, 6 (not hearsay), 7
(not hearsay), 8 (not hearsay), 9 (not hearsay), 10 (not hearsay), 11 (has
foundation), 12 (not hearsay), 13 (not hearsay), 14 (has foundation), 15 (has
foundation), 16 (not hearsay), 17 (has foundation), 18 (has foundation), 19
(has foundation), 20 (not hearsay), 21 (has foundation), 22 (has foundation),
23 (has foundation), 24 (has foundation), 25 (has foundation), 26 (has
foundation), 27 (has foundation), 28 (has foundation), 29 (has foundation), 30
(has foundation), 31 (has foundation).
 
IV.     LEGAL
STANDARD
          Summary judgment may
be granted where it is shown that an action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(a).) A cause of action has no
merit if one of the following exists: (1) one or more necessary elements cannot
be established; (2) a defendant establishes an affirmative defense. (CCP §
437c(o).)
          A motion for summary judgment shall be
granted where all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP § 437c(c).)
          Summary adjudication may be granted
where it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim of damages, or an issue of duty. (CCP § 437c(f).)
A plaintiff has met “his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately
pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) “[T]he burden [then] shifts
to the defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
          Unopposed declarations must be accepted as true. (CCP §
437c(e).) However, affidavits must be
liberally construed in favor of the opposition and strictly construed against
the moving party in determining the existence of a "triable issue" of
fact. (D'Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)
V. ANALYSIS
          In their motion, Plaintiffs urge that each breach of
contract cause of action should be adjudicated in their favor, as they purportedly
sustained $105,865.13 in damages and continue to accrue damages and costs. Additionally,
they urge that all of Defendants’ affirmative defenses lack merit. (Notice of
Motion p. 3:4-12.)
          As to the cross-complaint, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants urge
that as to each of the three causes of action raised therein, “Cinemills can
not prevail in this cause of action as a matter of law, and that Judgment shall
be entered in favor of CIT DIRECT, and for attorneys fees, costs of suit
incurred herein.” (Notice of Motion, p. 3: 18-20.) These arguments are
addressed below.[3]
          
          A. The Complaint 
          i. Breach of
Contract
The
complaint contains four causes of action, (1) breach of contract, (2) account
stated, (3) breach of guaranty and (4) breach of guaranty. The first, third and
fourth causes of action are essentially the same, but are alleged against
different defendants. The first is against the corporate defendant, while the
third and fourth are against the individual defendants. The elements of breach
of contract are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff." (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Here,
the fact that there was a contract between Plaintiffs and Defendants is
undisputed. (Defendants’ Statement of Disputed Facts Nos. 1-5, see also Decl.
of Laurel Adams Exh. 1.) What is in dispute, however, is whether Plaintiffs
performed their obligations, and whether the Defendants committed a breach. (See
Defendants’ Statement of Disputed Facts Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.) What is also in
dispute is the amount of damages Plaintiffs incurred, if in fact there was a breach
(Id. at Nos. 9, 10).
Plaintiffs
also argue in their motion that Defendants’ affirmative defenses are not valid.
Defendants alleged throughout their answer that a “Notice of Return of
Equipment” document constituted a release of Plaintiffs’ claims against them.
Plaintiffs urge this fails as a matter of law. (Motion Memorandum of Points and
Authorities p. 14: 7-8.) In support, Plaintiffs cite several errors on the
Notice of Return, namely: lack of signature by Plaintiff CIT Bank, misspelled
names, incorrect identification numbers, and an incorrect contract start date.
(Motion Memorandum of Points and Authorities p. 14: 10-21.) Plaintiffs urge
that the contract provided that modifications to the agreement were only valid
if in writing and approved by Plaintiffs. (See Equipment Finance Agreement ¶
18.) The Equipment Finance Agreement, the undisputed contract between the
parties, and the obligations therein are “irrevocable and uncancellable.” (See
Equipment Finance Agreement ¶ 4.)
Plaintiffs
also urge that the presentation of the Notice of Return of Equipment was a
“fraud” on Defendants’ other creditors. (Motion Memorandum of Points and
Authorities p. 14: 23.) Plaintiffs fail to establish the elements of fraud or
otherwise back up this assertion. Moreover, this contention has no bearing on
whether the document is pertinent as to these creditors, e.g., Plaintiffs.
In
opposition, Defendants urge that they did not breach the agreement, but instead
signed over the equipment to Plaintiffs in satisfaction of the loan. Defendants
assert “CIT [Cinemills] contacted all its lenders and offered to would [sic] voluntarily
return the equipment securing its loans from the lenders, in excellent
condition, in exchange for a release of the remaining balance due on the loans.”
(Opposition p. 4.) In exchange for the equipment, a “Notice: Return of
Equipment” was signed, acknowledging that Plaintiffs received the equipment and
that Defendants were released from the loan. (Opposition p. 8: 1-9.) In
support, Defendants offer the declaration of Marcos M. DeMattos, the CEO of
Cinemills. DeMattos declares that due to the pandemic shutting down the
entertainment industry, as well as the SAG-AFTRA strike, Cinemills was not
making a profit. (DeMattos Decl. ¶¶ 14-21.) He declares as a result of those
events, Cinemills offered to give back the equipment lenders had financed in
order to satisfy the loans. (DeMattos Decl. ¶ 31.) He declares that the
representative of the moving company Plaintiff hired to take the equipment, Michael
Gabris, signed the Notice in his presence. (DeMattos Decl. ¶ 32.) He declares
that Gabris picked up all of the equipment. (DeMattos Decl. ¶ 33.) He declares
that the amount of equipment picked up and signed for on Plaintiffs’ behalf was
worth  $127,000. (DeMattos Decl. ¶ 48.)
Indeed,
Defendants argue that the amount Plaintiffs assert is owing is due in large
part to the way Plaintiffs’ agent sold the lighting equipment, as the equipment
was sold far below market value. Defendants urge that this was a failing on the
part of Plaintiffs; for the equipment at issue was highly specialized.  Specifically, Defendants assert that “RTR’s
advertising of some of Cinemills’ equipment on (1) its own website; and (2) the
Phoenix, Arizona Craigslist website was not commercially reasonable.”
(Declaration of Marcos M. DeMattos ¶ 56.)  Also attached to the DeMattos Declaration are:
emails evidencing a history of incorrect/mistaken accounting by plaintiff; emails
as to the history of the business relationship between the parties; the Notice:
Return of Equipment; and purchase invoices for the equipment picked up. (DeMattos
Decl. Exhs. A-H.)
In
reply, Plaintiffs urge that the Notice: Return of Equipment does not constitute
a release of their claims against Defendants because no agent of the bank
signed it. (Reply, p. 6: 11-24.) Citing Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc.,
plaintiffs urge that releases, as contracts, require mutual consent, shown by
the words and acts of the parties. (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc.
(2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 199.) Defendants have provided evidence, through the
DeMattos Declaration, that Plaintiffs sent its agent (RTR/Gabris) to collect
the equipment in order to release the debt. Although Plaintiffs urge that there
is no evidence that Mr. Gabris was authorized to execute the Return of
Equipment, the Court notes that there is also no evidence presented by
Plaintiffs that he was not so authorized. (See Reply, p. 8: 12-17.) Indeed,
Plaintiffs acknowledge their intent to repossess the equipment and pursue
remedies if the equipment sold for less than the amount owed. (Reply, p. 8: 18-22.)
To
the extent that the Court considers Plaintiffs’ argument that the affirmative
defense of commercial reasonableness was waived, the Court notes that the
answer contains an affirmative defense of comparative fault (e.g., Defendants
urged that Plaintiffs’ injuries were in part caused by Plaintiffs’ own conduct).
(See Reply p. 11.) The commercial reasonableness of selling movie
industry-specific lighting equipment on RTR’s website and Craigslist could fall
under the comparative fault affirmative defense pled in the answer. Essentially,
Defendants are urging that the harm ($105,865.13) is in part due to Plaintiffs’
conduct in re-selling the equipment. 
As
to the breach of contract causes of action asserted against the individual
defendants, Defendants present case law that stands for the proposition that the
execution of the personal guarantees does not constitute a waiver of applicable
defenses. (California Bank & Trust v. DelPonti (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 162, 166-167.) Further, guarantors cannot waive the right to a commercially
reasonable sale of collateral -- an issue Defendants urge is at the heart of
Plaintiffs’ damages. (C.I.T. Corp. v. Anwright Corp. (1987) 191
Cal.App.3d 1420, 1426-1427.) Further, the Notice: Return of Equipment specifies
that the release of debts includes the two individual guarantors. (Opposition
p. 12: 24-26, see DeMattos Declaration.)
ii.
Open Book Account
Plaintiffs
also urge that the cause of action for open book account is established, and
that Defendants have no contrary evidence or affirmative defense to that claim.
In support, Plaintiffs attach the declaration of Michael O’Connell, an employee
of Plaintiffs who is responsible for ensuring the loan is repaid. (O’Connell
Declaration.) O’Connell attaches as Exh. 8 a record of the equipment sale for $1,000.00.
Exh. 8 purportedly establishes that the sum of $105,865.13 is still owed on the
loan. (O’Connell Decl., Exh. D, p. 41.)
In
opposition, Defendants urge that the triable issues of material fact that exist
with respect to the breach of contract cause of action apply equally to the open
book account  cause of action.
(Opposition, p. 11: 14-17.) The Court agrees: the breach of contract and open
book account claims arise from the same nucleus of common facts; and questions
about the amount of damages/whether the amount is owed/did a breach occur exist
with respect to the claim for open book account.  (See Defendants’ Statement of Disputed Facts
Nos. 12, 13.) 
 
          B. The Cross-Complaint
          i. 1st cause of action for loss of collateral
          Plaintiffs urge that this cause of action fails as a matter
of law due to lack of evidentiary support. However, Defendants provide
evidentiary support as to this cause of action primarily through the Declaration
of Marcos DeMattos, the former CEO of Cinemills. He declares that 20 pieces of
specialized lighting equipment were picked up by Plaintiffs’ agent Gabris, but
somehow 14 pieces went missing or were not accounted for or sold in satisfaction
of the debt. (DeMattos Decl. ¶ 43.) Defendants cite Commercial Code Section
9207(a) for the proposition that reasonable care must be exercised with respect
to  collateral in a secured party’s
possession. (CC § 9207(a).) Commercial Code Section 9625 states that a party in
possession of secured property that is lost or destroyed is potentially liable
for damages. (CC §§ 9265(b)-(d).)
          Defendants provide the declaration of DeMattos and excerpts
of Plaintiffs’ discovery responses in support. DeMattos declares that he
observed that all 20 pieces of equipment were loaded up by Plaintiffs’ agent, and
signed for.  DeMattos was later made
aware that the representative was claiming he only received six pieces of
equipment. (DeMattos Decl. ¶¶ 35, 42, 43.) 
          Defendants have provided admissible evidence that triable
issues of material fact exist as to the first cause of action on the
cross-compliant.
 
 
 
          ii. Third Cause of Action for Fraud
          Fraud based on misrepresentation is established by: (1)
misrepresentation of a material fact (consisting of false representation,
concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to deceive
and 27 induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation; and
(5) resulting damage." (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
445, 481.)
As
with their arguments concerning the first cause of action of the
cross-complaint, Plaintiffs urge that this cause of action fails due to a lack
of evidentiary support. (Motion Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p.
17:1-2.) However, Defendants do provide admissible evidentiary support as to
this cause of action; namely, the declaration of Marcos DeMattos. (DeMattos
Decl.¶ 42-43.) Defendants/cross-complainants urge that Plaintiffs aided and
abetted its agent’s fraud in losing/not selling 14 pieces of lighting equipment
based upon a respondeat superior theory. (Garton v. Title Ins. & Trust
Co. (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 365, 375 [defining respondeat superior in the
employment context, citations omitted].)
As
the only argument advanced by Plaintiffs is that there was no evidentiary
support for this cause of action and Defendants/cross-complainants did present admissible
evidence, the motion for summary adjudication is denied with respect to the
third cause of action for fraud.
          iii. Fifth Cause of Action for Negligence
The
elements of a negligence claim are: duty, breach of duty, causation, and
damages.  (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 404, 411.)
Plaintiffs
urge that the cause of action for negligence fails as a matter of law because:
(1) there is no evidence as to damages, (2) that Defendants/cross-complainants
have waived their rights to claim incidental damages. In support, Plaintiffs
cite ¶ 15 of the Equipment Finance Agreement, which provides “"You agree
that we will not be responsible to pay You any consequential or incidental
damages you claim under the EFA". 
As
noted above, Defendants/cross-complainants have presented evidence of damages. Defendants
cite Commercial Code Section 9207(a) for the proposition that reasonable care must
be exercised with respect to collateral in a secured party’s possession. (CC §
9207(a).) Commercial Code Section 9625 states that a party in possession of
secured property that is lost or destroyed is potentially liable for damages.
(CC §§ 9265(b)-(d).)
Further,
Defendants provided the declaration of DeMattos and excerpts of Plaintiffs’
discovery responses.  DeMattos declares
that all 20 pieces of equipment were loaded up by Plaintiffs’ agent in front of
him, and signed for; and then he was made aware that the agent  was claiming they only took six pieces of
equipment. (DeMattos Decl. ¶¶ 35, 42, 43.) 
In
their reply Plaintiffs argue:  “[t]he
Cross Action is reliant upon findings and conclusions arising from the
Complaint, if the Defendant has failed to rebut the Plaintiff's causes of
action, ipso facto and logically they have not sustained their burden on the
Cross Action.” (Reply, p. 4: 9-11.) 
By
Plaintiffs’ own logic, the Defendants have met their burden on the
cross-action, because Defendants have presented triable issues of material fact.
 
VI.     CONCLUSION
          The Plaintiffs’ motion is denied. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


