 Case Number:  22AHCV01139    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 






 HERMAN
    LOPEZ aka HERMAN LOPEZ REYES and ROSA LOPEZ,                                           
                                           
    Plaintiffs,
 
vs.
 
COURTESY
    CHEVROLET CENTER, a California Corporation; GENERAL MOTORS LLC, a Delaware
    Limited Liability Company, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                                           
    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
    )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.:
    BC617479 (related case no. BC616980)
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
    ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
    AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
Date:   December 19, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P






)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 22AHCV01139
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Date:   January
  19, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
          I.        INTRODUCTION
In this lemon law case,
Plaintiff Herman and Rosa Lopez (collectively Plaintiffs) allege claims against
Defendants Courtesy Chevrolet Center and General Motors LLC (GM) concerning their
purchased vehicle, a 2019 Chevrolet Blazer. 
 
Before the Court is
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel GM to produce a Person Most Qualified for deposition.
The motion was filed December 13, 2023. GM filed an opposition January 5, 2024.
Plaintiffs filed a reply on January 11, 2024.
 For the reasons set forth below, the motion to
compel deposition is DENIED. 
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
 “If the deponent named is not a natural
person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the
matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall
designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors,
managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its
behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably
available to the deponent. (CCP § 2025.230.)
Code Civ. Proc. Section 2025.450 
(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of
a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under
Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
. . . 
(g)(1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
 
          III.     ANALYSIS
          A. Meet
and Confer Efforts Were Not Sufficient
          Plaintiffs offer the declaration of their
attorney, Phil A. Thomas, in support of their meet and confer efforts. (Thomas
Declaration.) Thomas declares that he first sent a meet and confer letter on
November 28, just one day after GM served objections to the deposition notice.
(Thomas Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) Thomas declares that subsequently, he tried to get
GM’s counsel to agree to a date for a PMQ deposition to no avail. (Thomas Decl.
¶ 11.)
In its opposition, GM contends that Plaintiffs
failed to meet and confer in good faith. Specifically, GM contends that they
served objections on November 27, 2023 to the deposition and in response,
Plaintiffs sent a letter the next day simply requesting all objections be
withdrawn. (Yaraghchian Decl. ¶ 5.) GM offers the declaration of its attorney,
Arash Yaraghchian, in support. He declares that Plaintiffs did not
substantively respond to its objections regarding scope of the deposition and
filed this motion instead. (Yaraghchian Decl. ¶ 10.) He declares that GM
offered to produce someone to depose for some of the categories in the
deposition notice (Categories Nos. 1 & 2), not all, subject to GM’s
objections. (Id., see also Opposition p. 5: 1-19.)
The
Court finds that meet and confer efforts were not sufficient.  
Notwithstanding
this fact, the Court analyzes the merits of the motion below.   
B. Motion
Plaintiffs served a notice of deposition on November
14, 2023 as to a December 4 deposition date. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 3, see Exh. A.) The
deposition notice seeks testimony from the person most qualified about why GM
did not purchase the vehicle back from Plaintiffs prior to this lawsuit being filed, the nature and extent of the vehicle’s
repair history, and other similar topics. On November 27, 2023, Defendant GM
served objections to the deposition notice. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 5, see Exh. C.) In
response, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter on November 28.
(Thomas Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) On December 1, Plaintiffs sent GM a video link to
access the remote deposition set for December 4. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 7.) GM nor
their person most qualified appeared at the deposition. Lopez then sent a follow-up
requesting additional dates for the deposition but received no response.
(Thomas Decl. ¶8.) GM sent a response letter to the meet and confer on December
5, again objecting to the deposition of their PMQ. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 9.) Counsel
for Plaintiffs sent one additional email to request deposition dates on
December 11, 2023 and received no response. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 10.)
Counsel for Plaintiffs, Phil A. Thomas, declares he
has had past dealings with GM and has run into issues getting a deposition from
GM’s person most knowledgeable. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 12.) He declares that GM is
willing to produce a witness on some of the topics in the deposition notice but
not all. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 11.) He declares that GM offered deposition dates of November
30 and December 5, but due to the number of other cases counsel had pending
against GM, he did not elect one of those deposition dates for this case. (Id.)
Plaintiffs urge that the information sought in the
PMQ deposition is relevant to their lemon law claims. (Motion, p. 8: 1.) Lopez
cites CACI No. 3201 for the elements of a lemon law claim; namely, that
plaintiff had a defective new car, presented it for repairs, repairs were
inadequate and defendant refused to replace or buy back the car. (CACI No.
3201.) Information as to GM’s analysis of whether Plaintiffs’ car should be
bought back, the repair history of the car, GM’s lemon law policies and
procedures and GM’s staff training regarding lemon law is relevant to Plaintiffs’
claim, as they relate to the elements of a prima facie case under the
Song-Beverly Act, also referred to as lemon law. Plaintiffs also cite three
lemon law cases as to the relevance of the car manufacturer’s policies, prior
vehicle repairs and the manufacturer’s criteria for determining if a car is a
lemon. (See Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136; Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of North
America (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 186; Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors
Inc. (1995) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094.)
Lastly, Plaintiffs urge that GM’s other objections
to the PMQ deposition were not made properly, and therefore fail. (Motion, p. 5:
5-28; see also Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 78 Cal.App.3d 771, 783 [holding
that a discovery request is only overbroad if it is essentially
unintelligible]; Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 318 [holding that if a party wishes to obtain a protective
order, it must provide good cause for the order] and Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1 [setting forth the process to
analyze privacy interests.])
In opposition, GM urges that the information sought
by the deposition notice is so overly broad as to be irrelevant. (Opposition,
p. 6: 3-10; Opposition Separate Statement p. 4: 25-26.)  GM also urges that the only issue at hand is
whether GM failed to repurchase the Plaintiffs’ vehicle after a reasonable
amount of repair attempts, so discovery should be limited to this issue. The
Court notes that the scope of discovery is relatively broad: the standard is whether
the discovery device is reasonably calculated to lead to discoverable evidence
-- not that discovery itself must yield discoverable evidence. 
GM also urges that the requests and categories
sought by the deposition notice are overly broad. (Opposition, p. 7: 18-19,
Opposition Separate Statement p. 4: 15-17.) GM urges “Clearly, Plaintiffs are
using the discovery process as a sledgehammer to wage war, rather than like a
lancet to facilitate litigation.” (Opposition, p. 7: 22-23.)  
Lastly, GM urges that the deposition notice
impermissibly seeks trade secret information and other protected categories.
(Opposition, p. 8: 7.) This argument has merit. 
GM urges that revealing its internal policies and procedures would put
it at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. In support, GM provides
the definition of trade secrets under California Law. (See McGuan v.
Endovascular Techs. Inc. (2013) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988-989.) GM
urges that Lopez must demonstrate a compelling need for this information.
(Opposition p. 8: 24-27.) GM also provides the declaration of Huizhen Lu, in
support of its contention that GM’s internal policies and procedures are trade
secret information. (Lu Declaration, Exh. A to Yaraghchian Declaration.)
Pertinently, Lu declares that he is an employee of GM who knows of the
information sought by Plaintiffs. (Lu Decl. ¶ 8.) He declares that this
information is a trade secret and would cause competitive harm if released to
the public. (Lu Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.) However, Lu’s declaration is from 2018, before
the instant case was even filed. (Yaraghchian Decl. Exh. A p.20.) However,
Yaraghchian also declares that internal policies and procedures information are
trade secrets. (Yaraghchian Decl. ¶ 16.) The declaration of Yaraghchian
supports the assertion that the information sought contains trade secrets. (See
also Opposition Separate Statement p. 5: 10-27.)
Accordingly, as Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer
in good faith and the deposition notice seeks trade secret information, the
motion to compel deposition is denied. 
C. Sanctions
Plaintiffs seek sanctions of $1,860.00 against GM
for necessitating this motion. Plaintiffs’ counsel, Phil A. Thomas, indicates
that he spent 1.5 hours preparing the motion, expects to spend 1.5 hours reading
opposition and on reply and 1 hour attending the hearing on this motion. His
hourly rate is $450. He spent $60.00 on the filling fee for the motion. (Thomas
Decl. ¶ 14.)
The Court declines to award monetary sanctions to
Plaintiffs, as they failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to making
this motion.  
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion by Plaintiffs for an order compelling the
deposition of GM’s person most qualified is denied. Plaintiffs’ request for
sanctions is also denied.
Counsel
for GM is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.  
          
 
 
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT