 Case Number:  23STCV28854    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TASHA
  MCGHEE 
                           
         vs.
 
AMERICAN
  CREDIT ACCEPTANCE
 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV28854
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 15, 2024



 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This
matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of arbitration proceedings.

 
 
            On
11/27/2023, Plaintiff Tasha McGhee filed suit against American Credit
Acceptance, alleging: (1) breach of contract; and (2) common counts. 
 
Now,
Defendant moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
The motion is
unopposed. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that in 2017, Plaintiff contracted with a non-party car
dealership to buy a used sedan on credit. (Contact, 1.) The dealership then
assigned the contract to Defendant here, an automotive finance company. (See
Contract at 2.)
 
The contract
has an arbitration agreement that lets Plaintiff, the dealership, or
Defendant—as the dealership’s assignee—choose to arbitrate:
 
a.      What
Claims are Covered. A “Claim” is any claim, dispute or
controversy between you and us that in any way arises from or relates to this
consumer credit sale, the purchase you are financing by way of this Contract,
the Vehicle and related goods and serves that are the subject of the purchase
and this Contract, or the collection and servicing of this Contract, including
but not limited to: . . .
 
·
Disputes based on contract, tort, consumer rights, fraud and other intentional
torts (at law or in equity, including any claim for injunctive or declaratory
relief); 
·
Disputes based on constitutional grounds or on laws, regulations, ordinances,
or similar provisions; 
·
Disputes about the validity, enforceability, arbitrability or scope of this
Arbitration Provision or this Contract . . . . . . . . 
 
i.                   
Governing Law. This Arbitration
Provision is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act [FAA] . . . .
 
(Contract,
4.) 
 
Plaintiff did
not oppose this motion, and thus is considered to have conceded to the
existence of the arbitration agreement. 
 
B.   
Covered Claims 
 
Plaintiff’s
claims arise out the vehicle purchase that was the subject of the underlying
Contract, and thus fall within the scope of the agreement. 
 
Given that Defendant has established by a preponderance
of the evidence that an arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s
claims are covered by that agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to
establish that the arbitration clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
II.              
Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence any defense, such as
unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff did not advance any defense to enforceability, as she did not oppose
this motion. As such, she has not met her burden to show that the arbitration
agreement should be not be enforced. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted. This matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of
arbitration proceedings.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May    
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 