  Case Number:  22VECV01970    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Mary Howard, 
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
El Camino Shopping Center, et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV01970                      107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
Relieved
  From Deemed Admissions
 
  
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Defendant El
Camino Shopping Center, LLC moves to be relieved from deemed admissions. This
court denies Defendant’s motion. We permit Defendant to preserve its ability
to bring a later motion for reconsideration by electing not to consider the
Motion a motion for reconsideration and denying it on only res judicata
grounds.
 
I. BACKGROUND
This is a premises liability negligence case. On
December 2, 2020, plaintiff Mary Howard (“Plaintiff”) “fell in a recessed
painted and camouflaged area of the asphalt” in the parking lot of a shopping
center maintained by defendant El Camino Shopping Center, LLC (“Defendant” and,
together with Plaintiff, “Parties”). (Complaint p. 4.)¿ 
¿ 
On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit
by filing a form complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action for (1)
negligence, (2) willful failure to warn, and (3) dangerous condition of public
property. (Complaint p. 4.)¿ 
 
On December 20, 2023, this court granted Plaintiff’s
motion for an order to have the requests for admission that she had served on
Defendant deemed admitted.
 
On May 15, 2024
this court denied a motion to be relieved from deemed admissions brought by
Defendant.
 
On June 10, 2024 Defendant filed a second motion to be
relieved from deemed admissions (the “Motion”). On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion, to which Defendant
replied on June 27, 2024.
 
II. LEGAL STANDARD
 

Res Judicata

 
“A final judgment
or order is res judicata… where the court has jurisdiction over the subject
matter and the parties. The doctrine of res judicata bars a later action upon
the same cause of action in cases involving a final judgment on the merits
between the same parties.” (People v. Silva (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 538,
549–50.)
 

Reconsideration

 
“A party who originally made an application for an
order which was refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on ex parte motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. §¿1008, subd. (b).) 
 
“[California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008]
requires that a motion for reconsideration be based on new or different facts,
circumstances, or law. A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a
satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier
time.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206,
212.) “A trial court may not grant a party's motion for reconsideration that
does not comply with section 1008.” (Cox v. Bonni (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th
287, 312.) 
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant moves a
second time for relief from deemed admissions as to the same set of requests
for admission. It may not do so. Its motion to be relieved from deemed
admissions as to Plaintiff’s first set of requests for admission has already
been heard and denied. (5/15/24 Minute Order p. 1.) The court entered a final
order on Defendant’s motion to be relieved from deemed admissions, and
Defendant is now barred by the doctrine of res judicata from relitigating the
same motion.
 
If Defendant
brings the instant second motion to be relieved from deemed admissions on new
or different facts or law, however, since the first motion to be relieved from
deemed admissions that it brought was denied, Defendant may instead move for
reconsideration under California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
subdivision (b). Because “[c]lerical errors in judgments, orders, or other
parts of the record may be corrected by the court at any time on the court's
own motion or on motion of any party and may be entered nunc pro tunc” (Cal.
Rules Court, rule 5.560(f)), we therefore may treat Defendant’s labelling of
its motion as a motion for relief from deemed admissions as a clerical error
and treat it instead as a motion for reconsideration. However, we observe that
Defendant does not submit with the Motion an affidavit compliant with
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (b). We observe
that doing so would necessarily result in a mandatory denial of Defendant’s
Motion, thereby barring Defendant from bringing another motion for
reconsideration that is compliant with the procedural and affidavit
requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision
(b). Consequently, we permit Defendant to preserve its
ability to bring a later motion for reconsideration by electing not to consider
the Motion a motion for reconsideration and denying it on only res judicata
grounds.
 
Accordingly, thus
court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
 
Dated:             July 2, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric
Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Mary Howard, 
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
El Camino Shopping Center, et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV01970                      107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
Motion for Reconsideration 
 
 
  
                        


 [THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: Plaintiff
Mary Howard moves for
this court to reconsider its May 15, 2024 order granting Defendant El Camino
Shopping Center, LLC’s requests for monetary sanctions in its motions to compel
further. Defendant El Camino Shopping Center, LLC requests additional monetary
sanctions in opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration is DENIED. Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions is DENIED. I. BACKGROUNDThis is a premises liability negligence case. On
December 2, 2020, plaintiff Mary Howard (“Plaintiff”) “fell in a recessed
painted and camouflaged area of the asphalt” in the parking lot of a shopping
center maintained by defendant El Camino Shopping Center, LLC (“Defendant” and,
together with Plaintiff, “Parties”). (Complaint p. 4.)  On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit
by filing a form complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action for (1)
negligence, (2) willful failure to warn, and (3) dangerous condition of public
property. (Complaint p. 4.)  On May 15, 2024, this court heard three motions to
compel further (the “Original Motions”), each of which requested sanctions,
brought by Defendant against Plaintiff. This court granted one of the motions
to compel further, denied the other two as moot, and granted sanctions for each
of the three motions. (05/15/24 Minute Order p. 7.) On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for
reconsideration (the “Motion”), which moves to reconsider this court’s May 15
order granting Defendant’s requests for monetary sanctions in the Original
Motions. On June 6, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to
the Motion, which requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel. On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply (the “Reply”) to the
Opposition. II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS 
The Motion
 Plaintiff states that she opposed the Original Motions even though they
were never served upon her “in order to preserve Plaintiff’s fundamental rights
of due process and procedural regularity despite not knowing the precise
contents of the [Original Motions].” (Motion p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that this
court’s “inability to take notice that Plaintiff could not properly respond to
the unserved motions rendered an unjust outcome and improper sanctions” that
does not comply with the intent of California Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300, which allows motions to compel further responses to interrogatories.
(Id. at p. 4.) Plaintiff cites California Rules of Court 3.1345 and argues that
this court “had no jurisdiction to grant sanctions because the motions were not
served.” (Id. at pp. 4–5.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant offered no proof
“that they did in fact serve the [Original Motions] in some way, as Plaintiff
proved the contrary with its fax log.” (Id. at p. 5.) Plaintiff states that she
raised that service of the Original Motions was deficient an an informal
discovery conference and in opposition to the Original Motions, and she argues
that she “never acquiesced to the court’s error” and did not “waive[] her right
to proper service by participating in court proceedings.” (Id. at pp. 5–6.)
Plaintiff repeats that Defendant “did not dispute the fact that they did not
properly serve Plaintiff” in their reply to Plaintiff’s opposition to the
Original Motions and contends that “[s]ilence in this context can reasonably be
interpreted as an acknowledgment or concession of the validity of Plaintiff's
argument regarding deficient service.” (Id. at pp. 6–7.) Finally, Plaintiff
states that the Motion is timely. (Id. at p. 7.) The Motion is accompanied by a declaration (the “Kruger Declaration”)
signed under penalty of perjury by Plaintiff’s counsel. 
The Opposition
 Defendant states that “[t]he grounds for seeking reconsideration are
limited to those set forth in the Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 and are
jurisdictional.” (Opposition p. 2–4.) It argues that “[a] motion for
reconsideration cannot be used to ask the Court to change its mind” and that
Plaintiff fails to “present new or different facts, circumstances, or law and a
satisfactory explanation for [Plaintiff’s] failure to present the new or
different facts, circumstances, or law earlier in the case.” (Ibid.) “But, more
importantly for purposes of this motion, the Court has already considered this
evidence [brought by Plaintiff that the Original Motions were not served] and
addressed this issue… in Plaintiff’s oppositions and during oral argument.”
(Ibid.) Defendant also states that the sanctions “remain justified” because
“Plaintiff’s amended discovery responses were unverified.” (Ibid.,
emphasis original.) Defendant denies that the Original Motions were not served
and states that such “allegation…has already been argued in front of this
Court.” (Id. at p. 4.) Defendant also challenges Plaintiff’s contention that
she did not know the contents of the Original Motions. (Ibid.) Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff presents the same false evidence and ask the Court to come to a
different conclusion.” (Ibid.) Defendant further argues that “even if Plaintiff
offered new facts, she could not explain, and cannot provide a valid reason,
for not obtaining and submitting the evidence previously.” (Id. at p. 5.)
Defendant also argues that the court’s ruling on the Original Motions was
“correct when issued and remains correct now” because Defendant was forced to
bring the Original Motions and Plaintiff’s responses were not verified. (Id. at
pp. 5–6.) Defendant states that this court “only granted one of the three
sanction requests against Plaintiff” and that “[i]f any order is to be
reconsidered,” it should be the sanctions which were denied. (Id. at p. 6.) (It
should be noted that this contention is not true: this court
granted sanctions in either the full amount requested or in a reduced amount
for all three of the Original Motions.) Finally, Defendant argues that this
court “should sanction Plaintiff[] under Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5,” which is “justified against a party who brings a motion to reconsider
without showing any new or different facts or law or providing any explanations
for why those new facts or law were not presented earlier.” (Id. at p. 7.)
Defendant contends that the Motion is “bereft of merit” and that “Plaintiffs’
sole purpose for filing this frivolous motion is to cause unnecessary delay.”
(Ibid.) 
The Reply
 Plaintiff contends that “[the Motion] outlines evidence which states that
the Court did not have not have jurisdiction to grant sanctions because the
Court based its ruling on whether Plaintiff was prejudiced by the unserved
motions, and that is not the legal standard,” which is “evidence of new or
different circumstances exists” because “[a]t the hearing the Court instead
considered whether Plaintiff was prejudiced by the unserved motions.” (Reply
pp. 1–2.) Plaintiff argues that the Original Motions were not filed in good
faith because “Defendant only allotted Plaintiff three (3) business days to
supplement her responses which was unreasonable.” (Id. at p. 2.) Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant’s meet and confer efforts before filing the Original
Motions were inadequate. (Id. at pp. 2–3.) Plaintiff argues that the sanctions
Defendant requests in the Opposition are unwarranted because she brought the
Motion in good faith and not to cause unnecessary delay. (Id. at p. 3.)
“Contrary to [Defendant’s] assertion, Plaintiff has not repeated facts
previously presented to the court. Instead, Plaintiff has introduced critical
new material that was not previously addressed and is pivotal to the resolution
of this matter.” (Ibid.) Finally, Plaintiff argues that “Defendant's attempt to
introduce new information regarding the verifications of Plaintiff’s
supplemental responses in its opposition is improper and should not be
entertained by the Court” but rather “should be subject to a separate motion.”
(Id. at p. 4.)  III. DISCUSSION 
The Motion for Reconsideration
 “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a
court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally,
or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service
upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).) “Section 1008,
subdivision (a) requires that a motion for reconsideration be based on new or
different facts, circumstances, or law. A party seeking reconsideration also
must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the evidence
at an earlier time.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.) “A trial court may not grant a party's motion for
reconsideration that does not comply with section 1008.” (Cox v. Bonni
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 287, 312.) The Kruger
Declaration meets the requirements of an affidavit and states “what application was made before, when and to
what judge, [and] what order… w[as] made.” (Kruger Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4–5.) The
Kruger Declaration states that the Motion is made “on the basis that the Court
did not have jurisdiction to grant sanctions because the Motions to Compel were
never served upon my office and therefore prejudice is not relevant to the
determination.” (Id. at ¶ 7.) The Motion argues that because the
Original Motions were never served upon Plaintiff, this court’s award of
sanctions in its ruling on the Original Motions does not comply with the intent
of the discovery statutes, this court did not have jurisdiction to grant
sanctions in its ruling on the Original Motions, and Plaintiff’s argument in
opposition to the Original Motions on the substance of the Original Motions did
not constitute a waiver of her right to be served because she raised the issue
of service. (Motion pp. 4–6.) Thus, the “new or different facts, circumstances,
or law” on which basis the Motion seeks reconsideration of this court’s May 15
grant of sanctions in its order on the Original Motions is the standard for
service of discovery motions, which Plaintiff argues this court misapplied by
considering prejudice to Plaintiff. This is not “new
or different facts, circumstances, or law” for purposes of a motion for
reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a). As
the Motion admits, Plaintiff raised this argument in her opposition to the
Original Motions and during oral argument at the May 15 hearing on the Original
Motions. (Motion p. 3.) Thus, the exact argument on which the Motion is
premised has already been considered, and rejected, by this court before the
court made its May 15 ruling on the Original Motions. Additionally, Plaintiff
makes no showing or argument that she could not have or why she did not raise
any new or different facts, circumstances, or law at an earlier time, before
the May 15 hearing on the Original Motions.  Moreover, the
Motion is premised on the factual allegation that the Original Motions were
never served on Plaintiff and that this court’s May 15 order on the Original
Motions considered only prejudice to Plaintiff caused by a lack of service of
the Original Motions. However, as this court’s May 15 order on the Original
Motions observes, there was evidence in the record that the Original Motions
were properly served on Plaintiff in the form of the proofs of service filed by
Defendant. Thus, Defendant did provide evidence that the Original Motions were
properly served on Plaintiff, which this court considered before making its
order on the Original Motions. Thus, Plaintiff
shows neither that the Motion is based on new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, nor a satisfactory explanation for the failure to
produce the evidence at an earlier time, both of which are required for a court
to grant a motion for reconsideration brought under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (a). Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion. 
Sanctions
 Defendant seeks
monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,575.00 under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5, subdivision (a) provides, in relevant part, “[a] trial
court may order a party, the party's attorney, or both, to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a
result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous
or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. Although a
“motion for reconsideration improperly reiterate[a] previous
points and attempted to present matters which he could have presented
previously,” in order to award sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5, the trial court must find that the moving party “engaged in bad faith or
that the reconsideration motion was frivolous or that it was
intended solely to cause unnecessary delay” and must “provide a detailed,
written explanation of the conduct or circumstances to justify its order of
sanctions.” (Lucas v. Santa Maria Public Airport Dist. (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1028.) We do not find
that Plaintiff engaged in bad faith or that the Motion was frivolous or
intended solely to cause unnecessary delay, and sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5 for Plaintiff’s bringing of the Motion are therefore
unwarranted. Defendant makes no showing that and we see no evidence that
Plaintiff acted in bad faith or that Plaintiff brought the Motion solely to
cause unnecessary delay. Like in Lucas v. Santa Maria Public Airport Dist.,
supra, 39 Cal.App.4th 1017 at 1028, this is true even though the Motion
improperly reiterates previous arguments made before the May 15 order on the
Original Motions and makes no showing that its arguments could not have been
raised previously. Accordingly, this
court DENIES Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. Dated:             July 2, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric
Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court