 Case Number:  23VECV01408    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Michael MirMehdi,
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 
Kenny
  Rivas-Ayala,
 
          Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
                    107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
      
tiff’s attorney Hamid R. Moussavian
(“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel.
 
Counsel’s motion is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 11, 2021,
plaintiff Michael MirMehdi (“Plaintiff”) and defendant Kenny Rivas-Ayala were
involved in a motor vehicle collision.
 
On March 30, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence.
 
Counsel filed the instant
motion to be relieved as counsel (the “Motion”) on June 6, 2024. No opposition has
been filed.
 
II. LEGAL STANDARD
 
An attorney in an action
may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney,
after notice from one to the other. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd. (2)). California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires:
 
1.     
Notice
of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion
and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-051));
2.     
A
declaration stating in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship, why a motion under California
Code of Civil Procedure § 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under California Code of Civil Procedure § 284,
subdivision (1)  (made on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-052));

3.     
Service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and
4.     
The
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-053)).
 
The motion should
be denied if withdrawal would prejudice the client. (Rules Prof. Conduct, Rule
3-700(A)(2); Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial,
9:385.2 (2008); 1 Witkin Cal. Pro., Attorneys §72 (2008).) The motion should be
denied if it will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause injustice. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.) The determination whether to
grant or deny an attorney’s motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case. (Lempert v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) A breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship (or personality clash) is grounds for withdrawal.
(Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) An attorney is not
limited to withdrawing from a case for cause and may withdraw when withdrawal
can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client. (Ramirez v.
Sturdevant (1994) 26 Cal. Rptr. 2d 554, 559.)
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
(A) Notice—Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1362(a)
 
A notice of motion
and motion to be relieved as counsel under California Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2) must be directed to the client and must be made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (form
MC-051).
 
The Motion complies with this requirement.
 
(B) Declaration—Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(c)
 
The motion to be
relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (form
MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without compromising
the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1).
 
The Motion complies with this requirement by explaining on form MC-052 that
“[t]here is conflict of interest between the Plaintiff and his attorney of
record.”
 
(C) Service—Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1362(d); Super. Ct. L.A.
County, Local Rules, Rule 4.35 
 
The notice of
motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice
may be by personal service or mail. If the notice is served on the client by
mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either:
 
1.     
The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or
2.     
The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved.
 
As used in this
rule, “current” means that the address was confirmed within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was
sent to the client's last known address and was not returned is not, by itself,
sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the service is by
mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011, subdivision (b) applies.
 
When an attorney
files a motion to withdraw as attorney of record for a fiduciary, service must
be made by citation. The citation must be served in the manner provided in Code
of Civil Procedure sections 415.10 or 415.30. If the fiduciary resides outside
of California, service may also be made in the manner provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 415.40. (Super. Ct.
L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 4.35.)
 
The Motion does not comply with this requirement. The declaration
submitted by Counsel indicates that the papers associated with the Motion were
served on Plaintiff at his last-known address, but he does not explain why he
has been unable to locate a more current address or describe any efforts to do
so within the past 30 days. Instead, the declaration states, “[t]he line of
communication between the client and his attorney of record is broken.” This is
insufficient. For service at the last known address instead of the current
address to be sufficient, it must be accompanied by an explanation that Counsel
“has
been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to
do so within 30 days before the filing of [the Motion].” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1)(B).)
 
(D) Order—Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1362(e)
 
The proposed order
relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (form MC-053) and must be
lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all
hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of
trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set
one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of the
signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared
in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court.
 
The Motion complies
with this requirement, though we note that the dates of the next hearing and
trial dates have been changed since the Motion was filed.
 
Because the Motion
does not comply with the California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1)(B), this
court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
Dated:             July
2, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court