

 
Defendants Douglas
Emmett, Inc., Douglas Emmett 2000 LLC, Douglas Emmett Management, Inc., Douglas
Emmett Management LLC, Douglas Emmett Properties, LP, Douglas Emmett Builders
f/k/a P.L.E Builders, Inc., and Dianne Walton demur to the second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, eleventh, and fourteenth causes of actions
in the complaint brought by plaintiff David Peter Cwiklo. This court sustains
the demurrer as to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, ninth, eleventh, and
fourteenth causes of action and overrules the demurrer as to the second and eighth
causes of action. Defendants move to strike punitive damages from plaintiff’s
complaint. This court grants the motion to strike as to the first cause of
action, denies the motion to strike as to the second and tenth causes of action
and the corporate defendants, and denies as moot the motion to strike as to the
third, fourth, sixth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action. This court grants
plaintiff leave to amend the complaint.
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff David
Peter Cwiklo (“Plaintiff”) is a former commercial office tenant of defendants Douglas
Emmett, Inc. (“DEI”), Douglas Emmett 2000 LLC (“2000”), Douglas Emmett
Management, Inc. (“DEMI”), Douglas Emmett Management LLC (“DM LLC”), Douglas
Emmett Properties, LP (“Properties”), Douglas Emmett Builders f/k/a P.L.E
Builders, Inc. (“Builders” and, together with DEI, 2000, DEMI, DM LLC, and
Properties, the “Corporate Defendants”). (Complaint p. 5, 14.) Defendant Dianne
Walton (“Walton” and, together with the Corporate Defendants, “Defendants”) was
the general manager for the Corporate Defendants. (Ibid.)
 
On March 12, 2024,
Plaintiff initiated this action by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, (2) fraud of deceit and intentional misrepresentation, (3)
fraud in the inducement, (4) fraud of concealment, (5) rescission (fraud), (6)
breach of fiduciary duty, (7) negligent misrepresentation, (8) professional
negligence, (9) civil extortion, (10) abuse of process, (11) defamation per se
(libel and slander), (12) breach of contract, (13) accounting, and (14) unjust
enrichment.
 
On May 29, 2024,
Defendants filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and a motion to strike (the
“Motion”). On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions (the “Oppositions’) to
the Demurrer and the Motion, to which Defendants replied on June 25, 2024.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings 

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).) “If the parties are not able to
meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is
due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time
within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before
the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty
of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿430.41(a)(2).)
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176.)¿¿¿ 
 
We are satisfied that all papers filed in connection
with the Demurrer and the Motion are timely.
 

The Meet and Confer
     Requirement 

 
California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires
parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer or a
motion to strike, respectively, to attempt to informally resolve the objections
raised in the demurrer or the motion to strike. Each section requires that such
meet and confer be done “in person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
Defendants submit with the Demurrer and the Motion a declaration by their
counsel stating or implying that despite multiple attempts to call Plaintiff’s
counsel and e-mail requests to meet and confer about the issues contained in
the Demurrer and the Motion, he and Plaintiff’s counsel were unable to meet and
confer in person or over the telephone. (Panman Decl. ¶¶ 2–5.) Defendants’
counsel states that he exchanged e-mail correspondences with Plaintiff’s
counsel and that they were unable to resolve the issues raised by the Demurrer
and the Motion. (Id. at ¶¶ 4–5.) This is insufficient to meet the
California Code of Civil Procedure’s meet and confer requirement.
(§ 430.41, subd. (a); § 435.5, subd. (a).) We remind parties and, in
particular, Plaintiff’s counsel, of their obligation to meet and confer with
each other in good faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The Demurrer

 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)¿¿¿ 
 
1.     
Defendants’ Grounds for
Demurrer
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action for fraud of deceit and
intentional misrepresentation on the grounds that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute the cause of action, is duplicative of other causes of
action, and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for fraud in the inducement
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the cause
of action, is duplicative of other causes of action, and is uncertain,
ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for fraud of concealment
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the cause
of action, is duplicative of other causes of action, and is uncertain,
ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause of action for rescission (fraud) on
the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the cause of
action, is duplicative of other causes of action, and is uncertain, ambiguous,
and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the sixth cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the
cause of action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the eighth cause of action for professional
negligence on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
the cause of action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the ninth cause of action for civil extortion on the
grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the cause of
action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause of action for defamation per se
(libel and slander) on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute the cause of action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
Defendants demur to the fourteenth cause of action for unjust enrichment
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the cause
of action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
 
2.     
“Uncertain, Ambiguous, and Unintelligible”
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10 lists the grounds on which a demurrer may be
sustained, including that “[t]he pleading is uncertain.” (§ 430.10,
subdivision (f).) The same code section defines “uncertain” to “include[]
ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Ibid.) 
 
Demurrers “for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted
only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3, internal quotations omitted; accord Lickiss v.
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811,
822, quoting Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿A¿demurrer¿on the ground that the complaint is ambiguous,¿uncertain,
and¿unintelligible, cannot be sustained unless all of these imperfections
exist. (Kraner v. Halsey (1889) 82 Cal. 209, 211–12.) Not “every
ambiguity in a complaint will justify a trial court in sustaining a
special¿demurrer.” (Merlino v. West Coast Macaroni Mfg. Co. (1949) 90
Cal.App.2d 106, 108.) “A special¿demurrer¿should not be sustained if the
allegations are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues that
must be met, even if the allegations of the complaint may not be as clear and
as detailed as might be desired. Moreover, a¿demurrer¿for uncertainty will not
lie as to even¿uncertain¿and ambiguous allegations, if such allegations refer
to immaterial matters.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
Defendants allege
that the Demurrer should be sustained on the grounds that each cause of action
it challenges is “uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible” because it “fails
to identify any factual allegations to support any finding of indemnity against
Defendants.” (Demurrer p. 11.) However, the absence of supporting factual
allegations does not necessarily render a pleading uncertain. We strictly
construe the Demurrer for uncertainty and find that the Complaint as pled is
sufficiently stated to apprise Defendants of the issues in this action.
 
Therefore, we
decline to sustain the Demurrer on these grounds.
 
3.     
Duplicative Causes of Action
 
A demurrer may be properly sustained on the ground that
a cause of action is duplicative. (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 268, 290 [demurrer properly sustained on ground
that cause of action was duplicative]; but see Blickman
Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858,
890 [that
a cause of action is duplicative “is not a ground
on which a demurrer may be sustained”]. A demurrer may be sustained on the
basis that a cause of action duplicates another and “add[s] nothing… by way of
fact or theory of recovery.” (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc.
v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.) “
 
To define a cause of action, California follows
the¿primary¿right¿theory.” (Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. ExxonMobil
Corp. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 675, 686.) “The most salient characteristic of
a¿primary¿right¿is that it is indivisible: the violation of a
single¿primary¿right¿gives rise to but a single cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If one needs a quick handle on the test, the core concept is harm suffered.” (Friedman
Prof. Management Co., Inc. v. Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th
17, 28.) If two causes of action “were part of the same transaction, but gave
rise to different harms,” then they are not duplicative of each other. (Id.
at 29.) “A primary right is simply the plaintiff's right to be free from the
particular injury suffered. It must therefore be distinguished from the legal
theory on which liability for that injury is premised: Even where there are
multiple legal theories upon which recovery might be predicated, one injury
gives rise to only one claim for relief.” (Vera v. REL-BC, LLC (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 57, 68, internal quotation marks omitted.) “The primary right must
also be distinguished from the remedy sought: The violation of one primary
right constitutes a single cause of action, though it may entitle the injured
party to many forms of relief, and the relief is not to be confounded with the
cause of action, one not being determinative of the other.” (Ibid.)
 
The second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action all
plead variations of fraud. Plaintiff argues that the Demurrer’s argument about
these causes of action being duplicative “falls flat” because “[Plaintiff’s] 4-separate,
4-different claims were based upon 4-different legal authorities.” (Opposition
p. 5, emphasis omitted.) However, as stated in Vera v. REL-BC, LLC, supra,
66 Cal.App.5th 57 at 68, the fraud causes of action may still be duplicative of
each other even if they are based on different legal theories upon which
recovery might be predicated. To avoid being duplicative, Plaintiff’s fraud
causes of action must have different primary rights, meaning that they must
have resulted from different injuries. (Ibid.) In each of these causes
of action, the primary right is the right to be free from fraud and the injury
was being defrauded by Defendants. Plaintiff in the Opposition lists the
different frauds that he alleges Defendants committed. (Opposition p. 6.)
However, each of the fraud causes of action incorporates all of these alleged
harms. Each duplicative fraud causes of action adds nothing by way of fact or
theory of recovery, as required to overcome a demurrer for being duplicative per
Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth, supra,
248 Cal.App.4th 268 at 290.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the third
cause of action for fraud in the inducement, the fourth cause of action for
fraud of concealment, and the fifth cause of action for rescission (fraud).
This court shall consider the allegations of the third, fourth, and fifth
causes of action in connection with the second cause of action for fraud of
deceit and intentional misrepresentation.
 
4.     
The Second Cause of Action for Fraud
 
“The elements of
fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.)
 
“[I]n California, fraud must be pled specifically; general
and conclusory allegations do not suffice. Thus the policy of liberal
construction of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a
pleading defective in any material respect. This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v.
Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 993.) “The requirement of specificity in
a fraud action against a corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names
of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The Complaint
alleges, inter alia, that Defendants committed fraud by misrepresenting
the square footage of the office space that Plaintiff leased from the Corporate
Defendants. (Complaint p. 18.) It specifically pleads the date and quotes of
statements Plaintiff alleges Walton and another employee of the Corporate
Defendants, Marc Riches (“Riches”), made to him, which he alleges were false
misrepresentations made as part of a scheme to defraud him and other tenants. (Id.
at pp. 18–19.) Plaintiff alleges that these statements were false. (Id. at p.
20.) The Complaint further pleads the date, location, and a quote of a
statement made to him by Walton about Defendants’ intentions to artificially
inflate the square footage of the office space that Plaintiff leased from them.
(Id. at p. 20.) The Complaint also alleges that Riches and Walton are both
licensed real estate agents. (Id. at p. 52.) Real estate agents have “the
affirmative to conduct a reasonably competent and diligent inspection of the
residential property listed for sale.” These allegations adequately plead both
that Riches and Walton had knowledge of the falsity of their representations to
Plaintiff and that they made these misrepresentations with the intent to
deceive him as part of their square footage inflation scheme. The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff relied upon the representations made to him about the
square footage of the leased office space. (Id. at p. 19.) Given that Walton and
Riches are licensed real estate agent and allegedly discouraged Plaintiff from
measuring the space on his own, to rely on these representations about the
square footage by Walton and Riches. (See Easton v. Strassburger (1984) 152
Cal.App.3d 90, 104–05.) The Complaint finally alleges that Plaintiff was
consequently fraudulently induced into entering an 8-year lease agreement and
to pay an inflated monthly rent. (Complaint pp. 14–15, 19.) Thus, the Complaint
alleges damages that resulted from Defendants’ fraud. 
 
Additionally, the
Complaint alleges that Walton was a “General Manager, officer, director and/or managing
agent of each of the [Corporate Defendants].” (Complaint at p. 7.) Because her
role and consequently authority to speak is described, she is quoted in the
Complaint, and the dates on which she made each described statement is included
in the Complaint, these allegations satisfy the requirements of Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., supra, 2 Cal.App.4th 153 at 157
for specificity of pleading to bring a fraud cause of action against corporate
defendants.
 
Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of
action where some valid claim is alleged. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont
General Corp.¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119 [“A demurrer must dispose of
an entire cause of action to be sustained.”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Therefore, we
need not address the other specific types of fraud alleged by the Complaint. The Complaint
therefore alleges all of the elements of a cause of action for fraud against
all Defendants.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the second cause of action.
 
5.     
The Sixth Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a
claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.”
(O'Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees' Retirement Assn. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)
 
Defendant argues
that the Complaint fails to allege that Defendants and Plaintiff were in a
fiduciary relationship. (Demurrer p. 14.)
 
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff and Defendants were in a fiduciary relationship because
Plaintiff was a prospective tenant and Walton, an agent of the Corporate
Defendants, is a licensed real estate agent. (Complaint p. 49.) 
 
Landlords and
tenants generally do not stand in fiduciary relationships with each other. (Girard
v. Delta Towers Joint Venture (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1741, 1749.) Rather,
they are “not in unequal bargaining positions, [] each contract[] strictly out
of a profit motive, and ordinary damages for breach of a lease [are] available
equally to both.” (Ibid.)
 
“The law imposes
on a real estate agent the same obligation of undivided service and loyalty
that it imposes on a trustee in favor of his beneficiary. This relationship not
only imposes upon him the duty of acting in the highest good faith towards his
principal but precludes the agent from obtaining any advantage over the
principal in any transaction had by virtue of his agency.” (Roberts v. Lomanto
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1562–63.) “When a broker is engaged by an owner to
market the owner's property, an agency relationship is created. The agent has
fiduciary duties to the seller to disclose all material facts.” (Id. at 1563.)
 
Although Walton
did owe fiduciary duties as an agent marketing a property to a prospective
tenant, these fiduciary duties did not run to Plaintiff, but rather to the
Corporate Defendants. Walton did not owe Plaintiff a fiduciary duty as an agent
either before he leased an office from the Corporate Defendants nor did the
Corporate Defendants owe him a fiduciary duty as his landlord after he leased
the office from them. Therefore, we find that the Complaint does not allege a
fiduciary duty between Plaintiff and the Defendants and therefore does not
state the first element of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
Accordingly, this
court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the sixth cause of action.
 
6.     
The Eighth Cause of Action for Professional Negligence
 
“To state a cause
of action for professional negligence, a party must show “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional negligence.” (Giacometti
v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
 
Defendants argue
that the Complaint fails to allege that Walton owed the duty of a professional
to Plaintiff. (Demurrer pp. 15–16.)
 
“Real estate
agents hold themselves out to the public as professionals, and, as such, are
required to make reasonable use of their superior knowledge, skills and experience
within the area of their expertise.” (Easton v. Strassburger, supra, 152
Cal.App.3d 90 at 104–05.) “[W]here a real estate broker or agent, representing
the seller, knows facts materially affecting the value or the desirability of
property offered for sale and these facts are known or accessible only to him
and his principal, and the broker or agent also knows that these facts are not
known to or within the reach of the diligent attention and observation of the
buyer, the broker or agent is under a duty to disclose these facts to the
buyer.” (Cooper v. Jevne (1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 860, 866.) “[T]he duty of
a real estate broker, representing the seller, to disclose facts… includes the
affirmative duty to conduct a reasonably competent and diligent inspection of
the residential property listed for sale and to disclose to prospective
purchasers all facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the
property that such an investigation would reveal.” (Easton v. Strassburger,
supra, 152 Cal.App.3d 90, 102.) In Merrill v. Buck (1962) 58
Cal.2d 552, 561–63, realtors who undertook to show a landlord's house to a prospective
tenant for a commission were under a duty of ordinary care to warn the prospective
tenant of a concealed danger of which they were aware. Thus, real estate agents
owe the duty of a professional to third parties as well as to their principal.
 
The Complaint
alleges that Walton “and her colleague Marc Riches” were both licensed real
estate agents who “held themselves out to [Plaintiff] as specialists in
commercial real estate leases.” (Complaint p. 52.) They therefore owed duties
as professionals to Plaintiff as well as to Defendants. The Complaint thus
adequately pleads the first element of a cause of action for professional
negligence. 
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the eighth cause of action for professional
negligence.
 
7.     
The Ninth Cause of Action for Civil Extortion
 
“Extortion is the
obtaining of property from another, with his consent… induced by a wrongful use
of force or fear....” (Pen. Code, § 518.) Penal Code section 519 reads, “Fear,
such as will constitute extortion, may be induced by a threat of any of the
following:
 
(1)  
To
do an unlawful injury to the person or property of the individual threatened or
of a third person.
(2)  
To
accuse the individual threatened, or a relative of his or her, or a member of
his or her family, of a crime.
(3)  
To
expose, or to impute to him, her, or them a deformity, disgrace, or crime.
(4)  
To
expose a secret affecting him, her, or them.
(5)  
To
report his, her, or their immigration status or suspected immigration status.”
 
The threat that
the Complaint alleges Defendants made to Plaintiff that underlies his civil
extortion cause of action was the posting and serving of a three-day notice to
pay or quit. (Complaint pp. 53–54.) Plaintiff contends that because this threat
to sue was coupled with a demand for money, it constitutes illegal extortion.
(Id. at p. 53.) We agree with Defendants, however, that the service of a
three-day pay-or-quit notice does not constitute extortion as it does not
constitute a threat as defined by Penal Code section 519.
 
Accordingly, this
court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the ninth cause of action for civil
extortion.
 
8.     
The Eleventh Cause of Action for Defamation Per Se
 
“The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2)
false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to
injure or causes special damage.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.) “[A] harmful meaning must [] be clear to constitute
defamation per se.” (Balla v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652, 690.) There
is a limitation on the common-law rule that any written defamation or libel is
actionable without proof of special damages, when the defamatory meaning of the
language used is not apparent on its face. (MacLeod v. Tribune Pub. Co.
(1959) 52 Cal.2d 536, 548.)
 
The publication that the Complaint alleges underlies its cause of action
for defamation per se is the posting of a three-day notice to pay or quit
“directly on the Cwiklo Law Firm front door—for the whole world to see” and
statements made by Walton in the leased office that Plaintiff had violated the
terms of his lease and would be evicted. (Complaint p. 58, 60.) 
 
The filing and litigation of an unlawful detainer action is
protected by the litigation privilege. (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1480, 1486.) “The litigation privilege, codified
at Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) (“Section 47”), provides that a
‘publication or broadcast’ made as part of a ‘judicial proceeding’ is
privileged.” (Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) The litigation privilege is interpreted broadly.
(Ibid.; Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 211.) “The
usual formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made
in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other
participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation;
and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Silberg
v. Anderson, supra, at 212) “It is not limited to statements made
during a trial or other proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior
thereto, or afterwards.” (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048,
1057.) The litigation privilege applies to a landlord’s service of a notice to
quit as long as it is “clearly connected to and logically related to the
unlawful detainer action” and not a “hollow threat.” (Feldman v. 1100 Park
Lane Associates, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th 1467 at 1488.)
 
The Complaint
adequately pleads that Defendants’ posting of the three-day notice to pay or
quit on Plaintiff’s door was not protected activity under the litigation
privilege. Plaintiff alleges that the notice was posted was a “false,
fabricated, manufactured civil legal action” and was done “to ensure and to
guarantee” that others with whom Plaintiff was professionally engaged saw the
notice with the intent to “deliberately ruin [Plaintiff’s] workplace and
professional reputation.” (Complaint pp. 58–59.) These ultimate facts are
sufficient to show that the notice to pay or quit was not, following Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th 1467 at 1488, “clearly
connected to and logically related to the unlawful detainer action” and was in
fact a “hollow threat.”
 
The defamatory
meaning of the language underlying Plaintiff’s cause of action for defamation
per se is not obvious on its face. Although the Complaint describes the
defamatory meaning of the notice to pay or quit and the statements by Walton,
all of these meanings are drawn by implication from the language of the notice
and Walton’s statements. (Complaint p. 59.) For example, the notice to pay or
quit did not state that “[Plaintiff] was financially irresponsible,” but
rather, Plaintiff alleges that this defamatory meaning can be implied from the
language of the notice. (Ibid.) Therefore, following MacLeod v. Tribune Pub. Co., supra, 52
Cal.2d 536 at 548, this alleged defamation is not actionable without proof of
special damages. Plaintiff does not plead any special damages. While Plaintiff
alleges that the alleged defamation “has a natural tendency” to cause special
damages and describes what special damages might result from such defamation,
he does not actually plead special damages that have occurred. (Complaint pp.
60–63.) Thus, lacking allegations of special damages, we find that this cause
of action is not actionable.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the eleventh cause of
action for defamation per se.
 
9.     
The Fourteenth Cause of Action
for Unjust Enrichment
 
“California does not recognize unjust enrichment as a
separate cause of action.” (Castillo v. Toll Bros., Inc. (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 1172, 1210.) However, in ruling on a demurrer, a court should
“ignore erroneous or confusing labels if the complaint pleads facts which would
entitle the plaintiff to relief.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 387.) A purported cause of action for unjust enrichment may be
understood by the court as an attempt to plead a cause of action giving rise to
a right to restitution. (Id. at 388.) “[R]estitution may be awarded
where the defendant obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud, duress,
conversion, or similar conduct.” (Ibid.) “However, a cause of
action for unjust enrichment is not based on, and does not otherwise arise out
of, a written contract. Rather, unjust enrichment is a common law obligation
implied by law based on the equities of a particular case and not on any contractual
obligation.” (Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Dintino (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 333, 346.)
 
The Complaint attaches a copy of the lease. (Complaint Exh.
A.) All of his causes of action arise from this lease. Therefore, a cause of
action for unjust enrichment cannot be based on this lease. (Federal Deposit
Ins. Corp. v. Dintino, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th 333 at 346.)
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the fourteenth cause of
action for unjust enrichment.
 

The Motion to Strike

 
Defendants move to strike punitive damages
from the Complaint. (Motion p. 2.)
 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages for the
first, second, third, fourth, sixth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, causes of
action. (Complaint p. 70.)
 
1.      Legal Standard
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.¿In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a
motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clausen
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations
omitted).) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 503, 510.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages
“[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice….”¿
(Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In order to justify an award of punitive¿damages, the
defendant must be guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the
intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations omitted).) “A claim for exemplary damage
may be supported by pleading that the wrong was committed willfully or with a
design to injure.” (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1055.) “[M]alice in fact is required rather
than implied malice.¿However, malice does not require actual intent to
harm.¿Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations
omitted).) “In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the
plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his¿conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895–96.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not
be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And, “conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of “oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,” within the
meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves,
supra, at 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, supra, at 1193 [“In addition to the
requirement that the operative complaint set forth the elements as stated
in¿section 3294, it must include¿specific¿factual allegations showing that
defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for¿punitive¿damages.”].)¿
 
2.     
The Third, Fourth, Sixth,
Ninth, and Eleventh Causes of Action
 
Because this court sustains the Demurer to the third, fourth,
sixth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action, we DENY AS MOOT the Motion as to
these causes of action. 
 
3.     
The First Cause of Action
for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“Because the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
essentially is a contract term that aims to effectuate the contractual
intentions of the parties, compensation for its breach has almost always been
limited to contract rather than tort remedies. The California Supreme Court
recognizes only one exception to that general rule: tort remedies are available
for a breach of the covenant in cases involving insurance policies.” (Spinks
v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th
1004 at 1054, internal citations omitted.) “Since a party may not recover in
tort for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, an
award of punitive damages is not permitted on such a claim.” (Ibid.)
 
The first cause of action is one for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing related to the lease agreement between
parties, which is not an insurance policy. Therefore, this cause of action
arises from contract and punitive damages are not recoverable.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion as to the first
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.
 
4.     
The Second Cause of
Action for Fraud
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendants committed the tort of
fraud against him. (Complaint pp. 18–28.) This court found above in its
discussion of the fraud causes of action that these allegations were pled
specifically. Thus, Plaintiff pleads that Defendants have been guilty of
“fraud, oppression, or malice.”
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES the Motion as to the second
cause of action for fraud.
 
5.     
The Tenth Cause of Action
for Abuse of Process
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendants retaliatorily
threatened to evict Plaintiff from his office space for notifying them of
repair needs and requesting financial records. (Complaint p. 56.) The Complaint
further alleges that Defendants threatened to evict Plaintiff in order to
compel him to make rental and fee payments to them that were in excess of what
he owed. (Id. at 56–57.) The Complaint alleges that the threats of eviction
were accompanied by “constant threats of substantially interrupting, interfering,
disrupting his
business if [Plaintiff] failed to pay” Defendants additional
money in excess of the rent and fees that he owed them. (Id. at 57.) 
 
The tenth cause of action thus alleges facts that a
reasonable juror could find to constitute oppression, fraud, or malice. The
Complaint alleges that Defendants acted willfully, deliberately, and
maliciously to commit fraud upon Plaintiff and to use threats of eviction and
interference with his business to compel him to pay them money in excess of
what they were lawfully owed. (Complaint at 56.) These actions, if true, could
be found to suggest either a design to injure Plaintiff or a willful disregard
for the consequence that he would be injured despite knowing of the injury’s
likelihood.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES the Motion as to the tenth
cause of action for abuse of process.
 
6.     
The Corporate Defendants
 
California Civil Code section 3294 provides that an employer
shall be liable for punitive damages only if it “had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for
which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice,” and further, “[w]ith respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) “In
order to demonstrate that an employee is a true managing agent under¿section
3294, subdivision (b), a plaintiff seeking punitive damages would have to show
that the employee exercised substantial discretionary authority over
significant aspects of a corporation's business.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 577.) “The scope of a corporate employee's discretion
and authority under our managing¿agent test is therefore a¿question of fact¿for
decision on a case-by-case basis.” (Davis v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 358, 366, emphasis original.) Moreover, “liability under¿Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (b)¿requires actual knowledge by an¿employer.” (Weeks
v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1158.)¿ 
 
The Complaint alleges that the Corporate Defendants acted
through Walton, whom the Complaint alleges was “the General Manager,
officer, director and/or managing agent of each of the [Corporate Defendants].”
(Complaint at p. 7.) The Complaint additionally alleges that Walton, in
concealing and conducting the fraud Plaintiff alleges Defendants committed,
acted “at the direction and control of Douglas Emmett’s core of key corporate
executives.” (Id. at p. 29.) The Complaint alleges that Walton controlled the
records for the Corporate Defendants, leased the office space for the Corporate
Defendants, and communicated with Plaintiff on behalf of and representing the
Corporate Defendants. (Ibid.) These allegations are adequate to create a question
of fact about Walton’s level of discretionary authority over significant
aspects of the Corporate Defendants’ business, which a reasonable juror could
conclude was substantial.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion as to the Corporate Defendants.
 

Leave to Amend

 
“Where the defect raised
by a¿motion¿to¿strike¿or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure,
leave¿to¿amend¿is routinely and¿liberally¿granted to give the plaintiff a
chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of
San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) “[An order granting a motion
to strike] is analogous to an order sustaining a demurrer.” (Vaccaro v.
Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) “If the plaintiff has not had an
opportunity to amend the complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend
is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its
face that it is incapable of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend
a complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to
amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.)¿¿ 
 
We note that this is the first time the Complaint has
been subject to a motion to strike or demurrer and believe that the defects in
the Complaint that are struck are reasonably capable of cure. 
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS leave to amend. 
 
 
 
Dated:             July
2, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court