 Case Number:  24VECV00640    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Hamid Reza Mirshojae, 
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 
Ahang Mirshojae,
  et al.,
 
          Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
          24VWCV00640          107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
 
Reconsideration 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
Plaintiffs move for reconsideration of this court’s May 24 order granting
Defendants’ motion to expunge lis pendens. This court grants Plaintiffs’ motion
for reconsideration. Defendants’ motion to expunge lis pendens is denied.
Defendants’ request for sanctions in the motion to expunge lis pendens is
denied. Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions in opposition to the motion to
expunge lis pendens is granted in the amount of $7,570.
Defendants’ request for sanctions in opposition to the motion for
reconsideration is denied.
 
I. BACKGROUND
A. Factual 
 
The following factual background is drawn from the
facts alleged by the Complaint (as defined below) and by the Motion (as defined
below). 
 
Plaintiff Hamid Reza Mirshojae (“Hamid”) and defendant
Ahang Mirshojae (“Ahang”) divorced in 2010 and subsequently became engaged in
multiple lawsuits against each other. In October 2017, Hamid and Ahang entered
into a written settlement agreement to settle these lawsuits.  
 
In 2021, Hamid and co-plaintiff Woodland Hills Medical
Clinic II, Inc. (“Medical Clinic” and, together with Hamid, “Plaintiffs”)
initiated a new lawsuit (the “Underlying Case”) against Ahang and co-defendant
5975-5999 Topanga Canyon Blvd LLC (“Blvd LLC” and, together with Ahang,
“Defendants” and Defendants, together with Plaintiffs, “Parties”) for breach of
the written settlement agreement. Ahang owns or owned a 51% interest in Blvd
LLC. 
 
In December 2023, Defendants accepted a California
Code of Civil Procedure section 998 offer to compromise (the “998 Agreement”),
under which Parties agreed that Defendants would pay Plaintiffs $270,000, plus
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs in exchange for a mutual release of all
claims and the dismissal of the Underlying Case. Plaintiff filed a motion for
attorneys’ fees, which has not yet been heard. 
 
On February 23, 2024, ten days after the filing of the
Complaint (as defined below), Defendants paid Plaintiffs the $270,000 owed
under the 998 Agreement.  
 
B. Procedural 
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiffs initiated this
lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging a single cause of
action for fraudulent transfer under the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (the
“UVTA”) against Defendants. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Plaintiffs served Parties and
“any and all occupants” of the Property (as defined below) with a notice of lis
pendens (the “Notice of Lis Pendens”), which states that this lawsuit affects
title to a certain real property (the “Property”) that is owned by Blvd LLC.
Plaintiffs filed a copy of the Notice of Lis Pendens with this court six days
later, on February 21, 2024. 
 
On May 16, 2024,
this court heard Defendant’s motion to expunge lis pendens (the “Original
Motion”) and four days later, granted the Original Motion. On May 24, 2024,
this court’s order granting the Original Motion was served on Plaintiffs.
 
On June 5, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for reconsideration (the “Motion”). On June
18, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion, to
which Plaintiffs replied on June 25, 2024.
 
II. OBJECTIONS
 

The Beatty
     Declaration

 
Defendants object
to the entire Beatty Declaration on the grounds of irrelevance. The sole objection is sustained to the
extent that it refers to other lawsuits and parties not relevant to the instant
lawsuit.
 

The Nezam
     Declaration

 
All objections are
overruled.
 

The Hamid
     Declaration

 
All objections are
overruled.
 
III. RECONSIDERATION
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿1008, subd. (a).) 
 
“A trial court may not grant a party's motion for
reconsideration that does not comply with section 1008.” (Cox v. Bonni
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 287, 312.) “Section 1008, subdivision (a) requires that a
motion for reconsideration be based on new or different facts, circumstances,
or law. A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time.” (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)
 
“New circumstances” may include when a party has not
been afforded a fair opportunity to respond to new arguments or evidence raised
by another party. (See Kollander Const., Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 304, 314 [holding that where “the length and breadth of the
response far exceeded the scope of the anticipated filing,” “[p]arties should
be given an opportunity to brief the new issues that arise after submission, so
that the ensuing order does not issue like a ‘bolt from the blue out of the
trial judge's chambers’” and “a motion for reconsideration is the appropriate
response to the denial of that opportunity”]; see also Gravillis v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 761, 772 [holding
that the trial court’s “abrupt reversal” of its order after considering papers
from only one party “constituted new circumstances justifying reconsideration
under section 1008”]; see also Johnston v. Corrigan (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 553, 556 [holding that granting a motion for reconsideration was
proper where the trial court had, before making its prior order, failed to
consider one party’s memorandum of points and authorities].) In Kollander
Const., Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 98 Cal.App.4th 304 at 314,
the trial court relied in its final ruling on new issues, arguments, and
evidence filed in a party’s sur-reply, to which the opposing party did not have
a chance to respond. The opposing party was thus deprived of a “full and fair
hearing” or the opportunity to brief the new issues, and consequently, the
granting of a motion for reconsideration as to that final ruling was proper. (Ibid.)

 
In ruling on the Original Motion, this court relied on
new issues raised and evidence submitted for the first time in the Defendants’
reply to the Plaintiffs’ opposition to the Original Motion. In particular, this
court relied upon a declaration by Ahang and a copy of a membership interest
pledge agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) that Defendants submitted as evidence
in support of the Original Motion for the first time in their reply. Because Plaintiffs
were not permitted to file a sur-reply before this court issued its final order
on the Origanal Motion, Plaintiffs were therefore deprived of the opportunity
to brief the new issues and evidence and thereby deprived of a “full and fair
hearing.” The facts of this motion for reconsideration are therefore just like
those in Kollander Const., Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 98
Cal.App.4th 304 at 314, and we therefore reach the same conclusion as the Kollander
court: it is proper for the Original Motion to be reconsidered.
 
IV.
EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
 
“[A] lis pendens is a recorded document giving
constructive notice that an action has been filed affecting title or right to
possession of the real property described in the notice. Its effect is that
anyone acquiring an interest in the property after the action was filed will be
bound by the judgment…. Once a lis pendens is filed, it clouds the title and
effectively prevents the property's transfer until the litigation is resolved
or the lis pendens is expunged.” (BGJ Associates, LLC v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 952, 967.)¿ 
¿ 
“At any time after notice of pendency of action has
been recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the real property
affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to
expunge the notice…. Evidence or declarations may be filed with the motion to
expunge the notice. The court may permit evidence to be received in the form of
oral testimony, and may make any orders it deems just to provide for discovery
by any party affected by a motion to expunge the notice. The claimant shall
have the burden of proof under Sections 405.31 and 405.32.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.30.)¿The court shall order the expungement if it finds the pleading on
which the lis pendens was based “does not contain a real property claim,” or if
it finds the party who filed the pleading “has not established by a
preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§¿405.31, 405.32.) “The party opposing a motion to
expunge a lis pendens has the burden to show that a real property claim has
been alleged and has probable validity based upon a preponderance of the
evidence.” (Nunn v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 346,
363.)¿ 
 
A. Existence of a Transfer of Real Property under the
UVTA
 
In this court’s
order on the Original Motion, we granted the Original Motion to expunge lis
pendens because we found that Plaintiffs had not established by a preponderance
of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim because we
found that they could not show the existence of a transfer that was of a real
property. We relied on the existence of the Pledge Agreement, which pledged
Ahang’s interest in Blvd LLC, which is the 51% owner of the real property on
which Defendants recorded the lis pendens, to third parties to secure a cash
loan. This court found that “[w]hile
we believe that the Pledge Agreement effects a transfer under the UVTA, it does
not effect a transfer of the Property but only of Ahang’s membership interest
in Blvd. LLC. As Blvd. LLC is not a real property, a fraudulent transfer action
based on its transfer cannot be the basis for a lis pendens.”
 
Defendants now argue that from the face of the Pledge
Agreement and the definitions of “transfer” and “real property claim” in the
California Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 3439.01,
subdivision (m) defines “transfer” as “every mode, direct or indirect,
absolute or conditional, voluntary or involuntary, of disposing of or parting
with an asset or an interest in an asset, and includes payment of money,
release, lease,¿license,¿and creation of a lien or other encumbrance.” California Code of Civil Procedure section 405.4 defines
“real property claim” as “the cause or causes of action in a pleading which
would, if meritorious, affect (a) title to, or the right to possession of,
specific real property or (b) the use of an easement identified in the
pleading, other than an easement obtained pursuant to statute by any regulated
public utility.”
 
The Pledge Agreement contains a clause titled “Possession of
Pledged Collateral,” which reads, “I, [Ahang], will not surrender or lose
possession, sell, encumber, lease, rent, transfer, or otherwise dispose of, any
collateral pledged to [the third party lenders], except to [the third party
lenders]. [Ahang] shall keep the pledged collateral free of all levies and
security interests or other liens or charges, except those that [the third
party lenders] approves in writing.” (Ahang Decl. Exh. A.)
 
Because we already found in our ruling on the Original Motion
that the Pledge Agreement effects a transefr as defined in the UVTA and because
this clause of the Pledge Agreement limits Ahang’s right to possession of the
real property on which Plaintiffs recorded the lis pendens, per the definition
of “real property claim” in California Code of Civil Procedure section 405.4,
we consequently now find that the Pledge Agreement effects a transfer of real
property under the UVTA. Weighing the evidence submitted in Parties’ papers for
the Original Motion, we find that Plaintiffs have shown that they can establish
by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of establishing the
existence of a transfer of real property.
 
Because this court already found in our order on the Original
Motion that the Complaint contained a real property claim and that Plaintiffs
have shown that they can establish by a preponderance of the evidence the
probable validity of establishing the existence of a creditor-debtor
relationship, we therefore continue our analysis on whether Plaintiffs also
show that they can establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable
validity of establishing the existence of intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
and the existence of injury and causation. (Code Civ. Proc., §§¿405.31,
405.32.)
 

Existence of Intent to Hinder, Delay, or Defraud

 
“A creditor may set aside a transfer as fraudulent
under¿Civil Code section 3439.04¿by showing actual fraud as defined in
subdivision (a)(1) or by showing constructive¿fraud¿as defined in subdivision
(a)(2).” (Chen v. Berenjian, supra at 817.) “Whether a conveyance
was made with fraudulent intent is a question of fact, and proof often consists
of inferences from the circumstances surrounding the transfer.” (Filip v.
Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 834.) “Among other so-called ‘badges
of fraud’ indicating such intent, the fact finder may consider whether: (1) the
debtor made the transfer to an “insider”; (2) the debtor retained possession or
control of the property after the transfer; (3) the debtor had been sued before
making the transfer; (4) the debtor removed or concealed assets; (5) the value
of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the
value of the asset transferred; and (6) the transfer occurred shortly before or
shortly after a substantial debt was incurred. None of these factors is
determinative, and no minimum or maximum number of factors is required.” (Aghaian
v. Minassian, supra at 456, internal citations omitted, citing Cal.
Civil Code §¿3439.04, subd. (b); see also Wyzard v. Goller (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1183, 1191 [“[T]he presence of one or more of [the badges of fraud]
does not create a presumption of fraud, but is merely evidence from which an
inference of fraudulent intent may be drawn.”].)¿
 
Defendants submit evidence in the form of a sworn declaration
by Ahang that states, “I, nor [Blvd. LLC], have not and do not plan to make a
transfer or incur an obligation related to the Topanga Property without
receiving consideration of reasonably equivalent value, or with the intent to
hinder, delay, or defraud creditors.” (Ahang Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiffs submit evidence that Ahang recently became
substantially indebted to Hamid. Defendants submit and certify a copy of the
998 Agreement. (Kassabian Decl. Exh. B.) The 998 Agreement is signed by counsel
of each of the Parties and provides for payment by Defendants to Plaintiffs of
$270,000, “plus reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred to the date of
this offer in the amount determined by the Court, according to proof.” (Ibid.;
accord Beatty Decl. ¶¿20–21.) A sworn and signed declaration by Defendants’
counsel agrees that Plaintiffs’ motion for attorneys’ fees in the Underlying
Case is still pending. (Kassabian Decl. ¶¿9.) Plaintiffs submit a sworn and
signed declaration by Hamid that states that Plaintiffs are still owed the
attorneys’ fees and costs they are owed under the 998 Agreement. (Hamid Decl.
¶¿16.) Thus, we conclude that there is evidence of and no real dispute between
parties over a significant outstanding debt owed by Defendants to Plaintiffs in
the form of Plaintiffs’ reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs under the 998
Agreement in the Underlying Case.
 
Plaintiffs also argue that the transfer of real property
effected through the Pledge Agreement was made to insiders, as the third party
lenders are Ahang’s “shell company” and her mother. (Motion p. 6.) Defendants
submit evidence that Ahang is currently being sued in another action by a third
party in which the plaintiff in that action “seeks in excess of $5 million from
Ahang in damages.” (Beatty Decl. ¶ 38.) Defendants submit evidence that
Ahang admitted in a separate action to having hidden assets or transferred
almost all of her significant assets to insiders such as her mother. (Nezam
Decl.¶¶ 3–7; Hamid Decl. ¶¶ 8–12.)
 
We find evidence of a few badges of fraud are present here:
that Ahang made transfers to insiders such as her mother, that Ahang had been
sued before making the transfer, that Ahang removed or concealed assets, and
that the transfers occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt
was incurred. Consequently, we believe that one can infer from these badges of
fraud a fraudulent intent on the part of Ahang.
 
We find that Plaintiffs have shown that they can establish by
a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of establishing the
existence of intent to hinder, delay, or defraud.
 

Existence of Injury and Causation

 
In order to bring a claim under the UVTA, “injury¿to the
creditor must be shown affirmatively. In other words, prejudice to the
plaintiff is essential. It cannot be said that a creditor has
been¿injured¿unless the transfer puts beyond her reach property she otherwise
would be able to subject to the payment of her debt.” (Mehrtash v. Mehrtash
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 75, 80; see also Fidelity National Title Ins. Co. v.
Schroeder (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 834, 845.)¿
 
Plaintiffs submit evidence that by transferring away “almost
all of her significant assets,” Ahang is effectively rendering herself
judgment-proof. (Nezam Decl.¶¶ 3–7; Hamid Decl. ¶¶ 8–12.) Plaintiffs,
as creditors, would otherwise be able to subject these significant assets to
the payment of their debt. 
 
We find that Plaintiffs have shown that they can establish by
a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of establishing the
existence of injury and causation.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion. The Original
Motion is DENIED.
 

Sanctions

 
1.     
Sanctions Requested in
the Original Motion and in Opposition to the Original Motion
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38 reads,
“[t]he court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this
chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and costs of making or
opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
attorney's fees and costs unjust.” “Substantial justification is justification
that is clearly reasonable because it is well-grounded in both law and fact.” (Pollock
v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1359.) 
 
Both Parties moved for sanctions in their papers briefing the
Original Motion. Because this court previously granted the Original Motion, we
also granted Defendants’ request for sanctions in the requested amount and
denied Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions.
 
However, because we now deny the Original Motion, Plaintiffs
are now the prevailing party on the Original Motion. Therefore, we instead find
that it is mandatory for this court to award sanctions in favor of Plaintiffs
and against Defendants in the amount of the reasonable fees and costs
Plaintiffs incurred opposing the Original Motion, unless we find that
Defendants acted with substantial justification or that the imposition of fees
and costs are otherwise unjust.
 
Because Defendants filed the Original Motion with no
supporting evidence and because we now deny the Original Motion, we find that
Defendants’ filing of the motion was not clearly reasonable nor well-grounded
in both law and fact. We do not believe the imposition of sanctions against
Defendants would result in injustice. Therefore, sanctions are mandatory.
 
Plaintiffs requested $7,570 in monetary sanctions against
Defendants in their opposition to the Original Motion. This is based upon five
hours of attorney time at a rate of $990 per hour drafting the opposition to
the Original Motion summed with two hours of attorney time at a rate of $1,310
per hour drafting the opposition to the Original Motion. (Beatty Decl.
¶¶ 35.) 
 
Given the specialized nature of the
issues raised by the Original Motion, the thorough briefing of facts and law
done by Plaintiffs’ attorneys in their opposition to the Original Motion, and
the preparation of declarations and objections filed with Plaintiffs’ papers
that was necessitated by the Original Motion, we find these hours of attorney
time to be reasonable and we additionally find the rates at which the hours are
billed to be reasonable. 
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES
Defendants’ request for attorney’s fees and costs in the Original Motion, and
this court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees in their opposition
to the Original Motion in the full requested amount of $7,570.
 
2.     
Sanctions Requested in
the Opposition
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008
provides “[a] violation of [section 1008] may be punished as a contempt and with
sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7.” California Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 permits
sanctions where a party or attorney files a motion “for an improper purpose,
such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the
cost of litigation,” is not warranted by existing law, and the allegations
don’t have evidentiary support or likely to have evidentiary support. California
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5
permits the trial court to award fees and expenses when a party acts “in bad
faith, that are frivolously or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” 
 
In the Opposition, Defendants move under the above California Code of
Civil Procedure sections for sanctions against Plaintiffs. Because we grant the
Motion, we find it was brought for a proper purpose and not in violation of
Section 1008. We do not find that Plaintiffs acted in bad faith in bringing the
Motion.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES Defendants’ request for sanctions in the Opposition.
 
V. CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion. The Original
Motion is DENIED and Defendants’ request for sanctions therein is DENIED.
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against Defendants and Defendants’ counsel in
their opposition to the Original Motion is GRANTED in the amount of $7,570.
Defendants’ request for sanctions in the Opposition is DENIED.
 
 
Dated:             July
2, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court