 Case Number:  23STCV31619    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MIRIAM
  MOTTA,  
  
         vs.
 
ESTRELLA
  RADIO BROADCASTING OF CALIFORNIA LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV31619
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 26, 2024



 
Plaintiff Miriam Motta’s motion for an order permitting her to conduct limited discovery
related to Defendants Estrella Radio Broadcasting of California LLC’s and
Estrella Media, Inc.’s anti-SLAPP motion is denied. 
 
Plaintiff
Miriam Motta (“Motta”) (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order permitting her to
conduct limited discovery related to Defendants Estrella Radio Broadcasting of
California LLC’s and Estrella Media, Inc.’s (collectively, “EMI”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) special motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §425.16(g); Balla v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652, 692-693.)
 
Background
Plaintiff
filed her operative Complaint on December 27, 2023, against Defendants alleging
five causes of action: (1) Violations of the Equal Pay Act; (2) Fair Employment
and Housing Act (“FEHA”) Sex Discrimination; (3) FEHA Retaliation; (4) FEHA
Failure to Prevent; and (5) Private Attorneys’ General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have paid
Plaintiff less than her male counterpart who has performed substantially
similar work as Plaintiff, when viewed as a composite of skill, effort, and
responsibility, under similar working conditions (i.e., Violation of the Equal
Pay Act). (Complaint ¶13.)
On
February 28, 2024, Defendants filed their special motion to strike portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint (“anti-SLAPP Motion”), specifically, Plaintiff’s
retaliation claims.  (See
anti-SLAPP Motion.)
Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on March 5, 2024. 
Defendants filed their opposition on March 13, 2024.  Plaintiff filed her reply on March 19, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
All
discovery proceedings in an action shall be stayed upon the filing of a notice
of an anti-SLAPP motion.  (C.C.P.
§425.16(g).)  The stay of discovery shall
remain in effect until notice of entry of the order ruling on the motion.  (Id.) The court, on noticed motion and
for good cause shown, may order that specified discovery be conducted
notwithstanding this subdivision.  (Id.)
The trial
court may allow limited discovery only upon “a timely and proper showing in response
to the motion to strike.”  (Lafayette
v. Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855,
868.)  To establish the requisite “good cause,”
the party seeking to lift the discovery stay must explain “what specific
discovery was needed, and why it is needed” to oppose the pending anti-SLAPP
motion.  (Tutor-Saliba Corp v. Herrera
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 604, 619.)
 
Discussion
          Plaintiff’s motion is denied.  Plaintiff fails to meet her burden to
demonstrate why the requested discovery is needed in light of the purpose of
the anti-SLAPP Motion.
The
stay of discovery in an anti-SLAPP proceeding is automatic.  (C.C.P. §425.16(g).)  “Not only did the Legislature desire early
resolution to minimize the potential costs of protracted litigation, it also
sought to protect defendants from the burden of traditional discovery pending
resolution of the motion.”  (Mattel, Inc.
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1190.) Discovery
is disfavored and should not be allowed absent a showing of good cause, which
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate. (C.C.P. §425.16(g).)
          First, Plaintiff seeks evidence to
deny that the conversations about Plaintiff’s threatened claims, which form the
basis of Plaintiff’s retaliation claim, were protected activity under C.C.P.
§425.16.  (Decl. of Escalante ¶8.)  Second, Plaintiff seeks evidence “to bolster
her opposition regarding” whether “Defendants subjected her to adverse
employment action” and by extension that the true reason Defendants did not
give her the pay raise was because of her pay disparity complaint about the
very same pay raise.  (Decl. of Escalante
¶8.) 
The
reasons Plaintiff offers for her proposed discovery are vague and broad in
scope: to explore the witness’ veracity and corroborate their testimony, to
explore Defendants’ contentions or information where the witnesses lack
knowledge, to “explore such things as foundational facts and the basis for any
denial to the requests for admissions,” and to “discover the veracity and
corroborate Defendants’ contentions.”  Plaintiff’s goals and stated purposes for
conducting discovery and lifting the statutory stay are not narrowly aimed at
opposing the anti-SLAPP issues presented in Defendants’ motion. Further, there
is no explanation of how the indicated discovery will lead to evidence permitting
Plaintiff to oppose the specific matters set forth in the anti-SLAPP Motion.
Plaintiff
has not provided this Court with proposed deposition notices, proposed document
requests, or the other proposed written discovery sought in her Motion.  Therefore, it is not possible for this Court
to determine whether the requested discovery actually satisfies the statutory requirements.
The
anti-SLAPP Motion establishes that the communications at issue were among two
individual employees: Steve Mandala and Plaintiff (in addition to settlement communications
between counsel for the parties). Nevertheless, Plaintiff seeks to depose and introduce
the testimony of three other employees who were not participants in the limited
privileged communications at issue. There is no specific indication of the
content of the requested written discovery. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion further seeks discovery to show that she was legally entitled to the pay
raise she requested and that she is subject to disparate pay, which relates
solely to her underlying equal pay claim, not her retaliation claim. Plaintiff
seeks to conduct discovery to prove her underlying equal pay claim, which is
not at issue in the anti-SLAPP motion.  (See
Blanchard v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2004) Cal.App.4th 903, 922 [stating plaintiffs
not entitled to discovery since they did not demonstrate facts they expected to
uncover in the discovery that would negate the privilege at issue].) 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is denied.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel discovery is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  