 Case Number:  24PSCV01580    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Careful Consulting,
LLC’s Motion to File Complaint and Accompanying Exhibits Under Seal is DENIED.

Background[1]  
On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a complaint, purportedly “under seal.”[2]
Legal Standard
California Rules of Court Rules 2.550 and 2.551 govern
records sealed or proposed to be sealed by court order. “Unless confidentiality
is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550(c).)
“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
file a motion or application for an order sealing the record.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).) “The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Id.) “A request to seal a
document. . . must be supported by a factual declaration or affidavit
explaining the particular needs of the case.” (In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1416.)
The court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
 
(1)       There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; 
(2)       The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3)       A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4)       The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and 
(5)       No less restrictive means exist to achieve
the overriding interest.
(Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.550(d).)
(1)       An order sealing the record must: 
(A)       Specifically
state the facts that support the findings; and 
(B)       Direct the sealing of only those documents
and pages or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents and pages,
that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All other
portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.
(Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.550(e)(1).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order, pursuant to
California Rules of Court rule 2.550 et seq., directing that the complaint and
accompanying exhibits be sealed.
The motion is denied. At the outset, it does not appear to
the court that Plaintiff has complied with the procedures set forth in
California Rules of Court rule 2.551 for lodging a record proposed to be
sealed.
Plaintiff represents that the proposed sealing is warranted
because the parties have stipulated to such. California Rules of Court rule
2.551(a), however, expressly states that “[t]he court must not permit a record
to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the
parties.”
Additionally, Plaintiff’s motion is not accompanied by a
declaration “containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).) The Declaration of Jacob Gillick (“Gillick”) is
conclusory in this regard. As well, it does not appear to the court that
Plaintiff’s request to seal the entirety of its complaint and
accompanying exhibits is “narrowly tailored.” Gillick fails to mention whether
“no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” The court
cannot issue an order in compliance with California Rules of Court rule
2.550(d) and (e) absent this information.


