 Case Number:  23STCV22561    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JONATHAN MARTIN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CURATIVE, INC., et al.,
  
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV22561
  Hearing Date:  February 26, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer to first amended
  complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs
Jonathan Martin and Paul Scott filed this action against Defendant Curative,
Inc. Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November
16, 2023, adding Defendant Fred Turner. The FAC asserts causes of action for
(1) fraudulent inducement, (2) breach of contract, and (3) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
            The dispute stems from a joint
venture to distribute COVID tests in 2020. Plaintiffs owned KorvaLabs, Inc., a
laboratory with the capability and infrastructure to develop and distribute
COVID tests. Defendant Curative, whose CEO is Defendant Turner, partnered with
KorvaLabs, and the two formed the joint venture known as Curative-Korva LLC.
Plaintiffs allege that after Turner visited Washington, D.C. to discuss a
potential billion-dollar deal with the U.S. military, Defendants sought to reap
the profits for themselves and proposed to amend the joint venture accordingly.
Because Defendants’ interests no longer aligned with Plaintiffs’, the parties
agreed for Curative to buy out Plaintiffs’ interest in KorvaLabs.  
            Defendants allegedly proposed a
reduction in the sales price in exchange for providing Plaintiffs with shares
or stock options. These representations were allegedly false and induced
Plaintiffs into signing the Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) containing a lower
sales price. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants breached the agreement
by failing to issue shares or stock options. 
            On December 18, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on
February 9, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on February 16, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Kumar Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Breach of Contract
            a. Delaware Law on Breach of
Contract
The SPA contains a choice-of-law provision
selecting Delaware law. (FAC, Ex. 1, § 8.8.) Under Delaware law, breach of
contract requires (1) a contractual obligation, (2) a breach of that obligation,
and (3) a resulting damage. (Great Hill Equity Partners IV, LP v. SIG Growth
Equity Fund I, LLLP (Del. Ch., Dec. 3, 2018, No. CV 7906-VCG) 2018 WL
6311829, at *45.) “Unless there is ambiguity, Delaware courts interpret
contract terms according to their plain, ordinary meaning.” (Daniel v.
Hawkins (Del. 2023) 289 A.3d 631, 645.) A contract is ambiguous “when we
may reasonably ascribe multiple and different interpretations” to it. (Estate
of Osborn v. Kemp (Del. 2010) 991 A.2d 1153, 1160.) However, an
interpretation is not reasonable if it “produces an absurd result or one that
no reasonable person would have accepted when entering the contract.” (Ibid.)

b. The Contractual Provision at Issue
            The contractual provision at the
heart of this dispute is Section 5.9 of the SPA, which provides as follows: 
 
“Subject to the
approval of its board of directors, the Buyer will recommend that each
Stockholder receive an option to purchase a number of shares of Common Stock of
the Company equal to $2,000,000 multiplied by their pre-Closing ownership in
the Company divided by (x) the price per share of the Buyer’s Series A
Preferred Stock minus (y) the exercise price (the “Option”), with (A) fifty
percent (50%) of the shares subject to the Option vesting immediately and (B)
the remaining fifty percent (50%) will vest on June 15, 2020. The Option will
be issued with an exercise price equal to the fair market value per share of
the Common Stock on the date of grant, as determined by the Company’s Board of
Directors. The Option will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company’s
2020 Equity Incentive Plan and a stock option agreement between such
Stockholder and the Company, including vesting requirements. Each Stockholder
can alternatively elect to receive the Option as a grant of Common Stock, which
such Stockholders acknowledges will be fully taxable upon grant.”  
(FAC,
Ex. 1.) 
            c. Defendants’ Purported
Breach
Here, the FAC alleges that “Defendant
materially breached the SPA by failing to provide Plaintiffs with the
opportunity to receive and exercise the promised Stock Options/Shares.” (FAC ¶
114.) The FAC further alleges that while Defendant purported to present such an
opportunity to Plaintiffs, “what Defendant actually did was try and create a
new agreement rather than adhere to the terms that had already been agreed to
in the SPA.” (Id., ¶ 115.) Specifically, “Defendants presented a stock
option agreement with a termination date. The actual, bargained-for agreement
had no such termination date. Further, the termination date had already passed
by the time it was presented to Plaintiffs.” (Ibid.) The FAC alleges
that Defendants set up “technical barriers” that made it impossible for
Plaintiffs to exercise the option and that “[t]he limited stock options
presented were seemingly unlike the Stock Options/Shares that had been
bargained for and agreed to within the SPA.” (Id., ¶¶ 116-117.)  
            d. Equity Incentive Plan and
Stock Option Agreement
            Defendants argue that under the SPA,
the options would be governed by the 2020 Equity Incentive Plan (EIP) and a
stock option agreement (SOA), and Plaintiffs cannot now allege that their
options were not subject to these agreements. The EIP provides that Curative
would “determine the terms and conditions” of any issued options, including
“the time or times when [an option] may be exercised.” (Kumar Decl., Ex. 1, §
4(b)(v).) The SOA provides that the options would terminate three months after
Plaintiffs ceased being Service Providers. (FAC, Ex. 3.) 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs ceased
being Service Providers on October 13, 2020, the date the SOA was sent, because
the letter accompanying the SOA confirmed that Plaintiffs “have completed those
services [related to the transition of KorvaLabs] and concluded all other
services as of the date of this letter.” (Ibid.) According to the FAC, Plaintiffs
attempted to exercise their options in September 2021 and September 2023, more
than three months after October 13, 2020. (FAC ¶¶ 71-72.) As a result, Defendants
argue that they did not breach the SPA by failing to provide an option;
instead, Defendants provided the option and Plaintiffs failed to exercise it on
time.  
                        1.
Judicial Notice of the EIP
First, the Court cannot consider the
purported EIP, which Defendants present as extrinsic evidence attached to the
declaration of their counsel. Nor can the Court take judicial notice of the
document under Evidence Code section 452(h), as claimed in Defendants’ Request
for Judicial Notice. Section 452(h) allows judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” This does not apply to the purported EIP, which is
reasonably subject to dispute and cannot be immediately verified by a source of
indisputable accuracy. 
While a court may take judicial notice of
a contract or document referenced in the complaint (Salvaty v. Falcon Cable
TV (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 798, 800, fn. 1), the agreement that is referenced
here (the SPA) is already incorporated into the FAC and attached in its
entirety. Plaintiffs have not left out any portion of the SPA that needs to be
judicially noticed. Although the SPA mentions the 2020 EIP, it cannot be
indisputably determined at the pleading stage that the document attached to
defense counsel’s declaration is the true 2020 EIP. Defendants point out that
under Delaware law, a document that is expressly incorporated by reference into
another contract becomes a binding part of that contract. However, Delaware law
on the interpretation of contracts does not affect California procedural law on
judicial notice and demurrers. (See Mave Enters. v. Travelers Indem. Co. (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1408, 1429 [California courts apply California procedural laws
absent an express agreement to the contrary].) 
            Furthermore, the EIP alone does not
defeat Plaintiffs’ claim. The EIP at most authorizes Defendants to impose
conditions on the issuance of an option. Defendants rely on the purported SOA
sent in October 2020 as the document imposing such conditions. Therefore, the issue
is whether the October 2020 SOA constitutes a proper option satisfying Section
5.9 of the SPA. As discussed below, this is a factual dispute unsuited for
resolution on demurrer.     
            2.
Dispute Regarding the October 2020 SOA
On a demurrer, the Court must assume the
allegations are true, not the version of events presented by Defendants.
Reasonable inferences are drawn in Plaintiffs’ favor, not Defendants’. Here,
Plaintiffs allege that they ceased being Service Providers in May 2020, when
they signed their resignation letters. (FAC ¶ 57.) Contrary to Defendants’
assertion, Section 5.7 of the SPA does not expressly or indisputably require
Plaintiffs’ continued services after their resignations. The provision is
reasonably subject to interpretation. And the definition of “Service Provider”
in the EIP is not necessarily binding because the EIP is disputed, as discussed
above. 
Thus, for pleading purposes, it is assumed
true that Plaintiffs ceased being service providers in May 2020. Under the
three-month deadline imposed by the purported SOA, Plaintiffs’ options would
have expired in August 2020, before the SOA was issued. (FAC ¶ 58.) Therefore,
Plaintiffs allege that they never signed the SOA and that the SOA is not a
contract. (Id., ¶¶ 60-61.) The purported SOA attached to the complaint
is indeed unsigned. (Id., Ex. 3, 4.) Plaintiffs attached the document to
the FAC, not as an admission that the SOA is a binding contract or that the
representations made therein are true, but as an exhibit to show how Defendants
sent them a purported option that was impossible to exercise. Even if the SPA
provides that any option would be governed by an SOA, it cannot be determined
on a demurrer that the October 2020 document constitutes the actual SOA that
governed Plaintiffs’ options. 
Defendants’ remaining arguments based on
the October 2020 SOA necessarily fail at this stage because the October 2020
SOA has not been determined as a valid binding contract between the parties, or
a valid document at all. Therefore, there is a factual issue over whether
Defendants tendered an option in compliance with the SPA.  
II.
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“The implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing inheres in every contract and requires
‘a party in a contractual relationship to refrain from arbitrary or
unreasonable conduct which has the effect of preventing the other party to the
contract from receiving the fruits’ of the bargain.” (Kuroda v. SPJS
Holdings, L.L.C. (Del.Ch. 2009) 971 A.2d 872, 888.) “The implied covenant seeks to enforce the parties' contractual
bargain by implying only those terms that the parties would have agreed to
during their original negotiations if they had thought to address them.” (Gerber
v. Enter. Prods. Holdings, LLC (Del. 2013) 67 A.3d 400, 418.) If “the
language of the contract expressly covers a particular issue, . . . the implied
covenant will not apply.” (Cygnus Opportunity Fund, LLC v. Wash. Prime Grp.,
LLC (Del.Ch. 2023) 302 A.3d 430, 458.) Nevertheless, “even the most
carefully drafted agreement will harbor residual nooks and crannies for the
implied covenant to fill.” (Gerber, supra, 67 A.3d at p. 419.) 
Defendants argue
that the implied covenant claim is wholly derivative of the breach of contract
claim because the basis for both claims is Defendants’ alleged failure to
provide stock options. The FAC alleges that the implied obligation was to grant
the stock options or shares in accordance with Section 5.9 of the SPA and that
Defendants breached that obligation by not providing the stock options or
shares. (FAC ¶ 127.) This is precisely the breach of contract claim. Plaintiffs
have failed to articulate an implied obligation separate from the express
obligations imposed by Section 5.9 of the SPA. Therefore, the implied covenant
claim is inadequately pled. 
III. Fraud
Fraud must be
pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Lazar, supra, 12
Cal.4th at p. 645.) 
Defendants argue
that the FAC fails to plead fraud with specificity because it does not allege
specific facts showing how Defendants knew their representations to be false.
However, at the pleading stage, “it is not necessary to allege the
circumstantial evidence from which it may be inferred that the representation
or promise was false -- these are evidentiary matters which give rise to the
misrepresentation. The only essential allegation is the general statement that
the representation or promise was false and that the defendant knew it to be
false at the time it was made.” (Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of
Modesto (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 145, 151.) Knowledge of falsity is an ultimate
fact sufficient for pleading. The evidentiary facts demonstrating knowledge
should be left for discovery. Therefore, Plaintiffs have adequately pled fraud.

CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the third cause of action and
OVERRULED in all other respects.  
 
 