 Case Number:  21STCV47554    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court
of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







WAVE INVESTMENT,
  LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SECURCAPITAL
  CORP., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV47554




Hearing Date:


November 3, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  SECURCAPITAL CORP.’S AND STEPHEN J. RUSSELL’S MOTION TO BIFURCATE OR SEVER
  SPECIAL DEFENSES AND EQUITABLE CLAIMS
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Wave Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on December 30, 2021 against Defendants SecurCapital Corp.
(“SecurCapital”) and Stephen J. Russell (“Russell”) (jointly, “Defendants”). 
Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on November 23, 2022,
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory relief,
(3) breach of partnership or joint venture agreement, (4) breach of fiduciary
duty, (5) conversion, (6) fraudulent concealment, (7) fraudulent
misrepresentation, (8) negligent misrepresentation, (9) unjust enrichment, (10)
accounting, and (11) constructive trust. 
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that in 2015, Carl
Fairbank (“Fairbank”) founded Breakout Capital (“Breakout”), a small business
lender that provides lending solutions to small businesses, along with loan
collections and servicing. (SAC, ¶ 16.)  
In or around late 2018, Breakout began facing
financial issues and began seeking purchasers or investors to stabilize its
operations. (SAC, ¶ 17.) At Breakout’s request, from January through April
2019, Plaintiff communicated with a
number of private investors, financial
institutions, and companies to gauge interest in a potential investment in
Breakout and/or an acquisition of Breakout. (SAC, ¶ 18.)  
In or around early April 2019, “Boyce” of Plaintiff
met Russell, the CEO of SecurCapital.
(SAC, ¶ 19.) Shortly after this meeting, Plaintiff/Boyce and SecurCapital/Russell
entered into a written Non-Circumvention Agreement. (SAC, ¶ 20.) In the
Non-Circumvention Agreement, Defendants agreed “not to undertake any
transaction or a series of transactions of any kind with [Breakout] or to
collect any fees in connection with [Breakout] without the express prior
written agreement of [Wave], which agreement may be withheld in [Wave]’s sole
discretion.” (SAC, ¶ 21.) Over the following weeks, Plaintiff, SecurCapital,
and Breakout negotiated the outlines of an investment transaction whereby
Plaintiff and SecurCapital,
as co-investors, would invest approximately $3,000,000 as operating capital of
a newly-formed
company (“Newco”), which would purchase the assets of Breakout. (SAC, ¶
24.)   
In late April and early May 2019, the parties’
negotiations culminated in multiple written agreements related to the
contemplated transaction, including: (1) an April 26, 2019 term sheet between
Plaintiff, SecurCapital,
and Breakout (the “Term Sheet”); (2) an April 29, 2019 side letter agreement
between Plaintiff and SecurCapital;
and (3) a May 1, 2019 standstill agreement between Plaintiff, SecurCapital,
Breakout, and Breakout Capital Holdings, Inc. (“BHI”). (SAC, ¶ 29.) The Term
Sheet provided, among other things, that BHI would be formed as the
contemplated NewCo. (SAC, ¶ 30.) Pursuant to the terms of the parties’
agreements, on or about May 1, 2019, Plaintiff wired $100,000 to SecurCapital
to fund Plaintiff’s portion of the first tranche of the partnership’s
investment in Breakout through BHI. (SAC, ¶ 33.)  
On or about June 29, 2019, Fairbank (Breakout’s
founder) sent an email to a group of people, including others on the Breakout
team and Russell, without copying Boyce or any other representative of
Plaintiff, stating that he was ready to sign the deal, and that he was “happy
to wait till the 8th” as he had discussed with Russell. (SAC, ¶ 37.) When Boyce
received Fairbank’s email later that day, he emailed Russell expressing concern
that the deal would “close without his consent” on July 8 as suggested in Fairbank’s
email, and further noting that Fairbank had not copied him on the June 29
email. (SAC, ¶ 37.) Russell responded to Boyce by denying that he had a “secret
deal with Carl to close on the 8th.” (SAC, ¶ 38.)  
Plaintiff alleges that on or about July 8, 2019, SecurCapital
unilaterally closed a deal to purchase the assets of Breakout through BHI. (SAC,
¶ 40.) SecurCapital
did so without the involvement or prior consent of Plaintiff, and Plaintiff did
not receive notice of the transaction until after it had closed. (SAC, ¶ 40.) SecurCapital
never returned the $100,000 previously paid by Plaintiff for the first tranche
of its investment in Breakout and BHI. (SAC, ¶ 41.) Plaintiff is informed and
believes that SecurCapital
instead used that $100,000 to complete its own transaction with Breakout and
BHI. (SAC, ¶ 41.)  
Defendants now move “for an order
bifurcating or severing trial of [Plaintiff’s] equitable claims and remedies
and Defendants’ special defenses, with those matters to be adjudicated by the
court, followed, if necessary, by a jury trial on the remaining non-equitable
claims and defenses.” Specifically, Defendants move “for an order bifurcating
or severing trial of Plaintiff’s causes of action for Breach of Partnership or
Joint Venture Agreement, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Declaratory Relief,
Conversion, Constructive Trust, Accounting, and Negligent Misrepresentation on
the grounds that these causes of action are barred by the statute of
limitations, and for an order setting a bench trial of Defendants’ special
defenses of Illegality, Equitable Estoppel, Unclean Hands, and Unjust
Enrichment.” Plaintiff opposes.  
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice.  
Discussion
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b) provides:
“[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in
a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the
Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure sections 597 and 598 allow a
court to order that the trial of any issue or part thereof proceed before the
trial of any other issue to promote the ends of justice or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation. Additionally, Evidence
Code section 320 provides that trial courts have discretion to regulate the
order of proof. “[T]rial courts have broad discretion to determine the order of
proof in the interests of judicial economy.” (Grappo v. Coventry Fin. Corp. (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 496, 504.) The objective of bifurcation is “avoidance of the
waste of time and money caused by the unnecessary trial of damage questions in
cases where the liability issue is resolved against the plaintiff.” (Horton v. Jones (1972)
26 Cal.App.3d 952, 955.)
Statute
of Limitations Argument 
As
set forth above, Defendants “move for an order bifurcating or severing trial of
Plaintiff’s causes of action for Breach of Partnership or Joint Venture
Agreement, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Declaratory Relief, Conversion,
Constructive Trust, Accounting, and Negligent Misrepresentation on the grounds
that these causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations…” (Notice
of Motion at p. 2:9-13.) Defendants refer to these causes of action (other than
the negligent misrepresentation cause of action) collectively as the
“Partnership Claims.” 
Defendants
assert that the Partnership Claims are “each predicated on an implied-in-fact
contract subject to a two-year statute of limitations,” and are “time-barred.”
(Mot. at p. 12:3-4.)[1]

In the third cause
of action for breach of partnership or joint venture agreement, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to the parties’ statements,
written agreements, and actions between April 2019 and July 2019, Wave and
SecurCapital intended to and did form a partnership or joint venture for the
purpose of engaging in an investment or acquisition transaction with Breakout
and BHI, as well as related transactions in the logistics industry.” (SAC, ¶
56.) Plaintiff alleges in the third cause of action that “SecurCapital breached
the partnership or joint venture agreement by repudiating the existence of the
partnership or joint venture, denying Wave’s interest in the partnership, and
using the money Wave contributed for its own acquisition of the assets of
Breakout.” (SAC, ¶ 58.) 
In
the second cause of action for declaratory relief, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “[a]n actual controversy has arisen and now exists between Wave
and SecurCapital. Pursuant to the parties’ statements, written agreements, and
actions between April 2019 and July 2019, Wave and SecurCapital intended to and
did form a partnership, or in the alternative, enter into a joint venture, for
the purpose of engaging in an investment or acquisition transaction with
Breakout, as well as related transactions in the logistics industry.
SecurCapital subsequently has – through its statements and actions – denied the
existence of a partnership or a joint venture with Wave, including by
unilaterally treating Wave’s $100,000 investment in the partnership or joint
venture business as an investment in SecurCapital itself.” (SAC, ¶ 52.) In the
fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “[a]s a result of the partnership or joint venture between Wave
and SecurCapital, as well as SecurCapital’s leading role in negotiating the
proposed transaction with Breakout and handling the funds to be invested by the
partnership or joint venture in Breakout and BHI, SecurCapital owed fiduciary
duties of care, loyalty, and good faith to Wave.” (SAC, ¶ 62.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶
64.) 
In
the fifth cause of action for conversion, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “[o]n or about July 8, 2019, SecurCapital unilaterally closed a
transaction with Breakout instead of closing that transaction on behalf of the
partnership or joint venture, thereby converting Wave’s $100,000 partnership or
joint venture contribution to SecurCapital’s own private use.” (SAC, ¶ 70.) In
the tenth cause of action for accounting, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “[i]nstead of investing the $100,000 in Breakout on behalf of its
partnership or joint venture with Wave as the parties have agreed, SecurCapital
diverted the fund and invested it in Breakout for its own benefit.” (SAC, ¶
109.) In the eleventh cause of action for constructive trust, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or about July 8, 2019, SecurCapital
unilaterally closed a transaction with Breakout instead of closing that
transaction on behalf of the partnership or joint venture, thereby converting
Wave’s $100,000 partnership or joint venture contribution to SecurCapital’s own
private use.” (SAC, ¶ 118.)
 Defendants note that “[Code of Civil
Procedure] Section 339, subdivision 1…provides a two-year
limitations period for ‘[a]n action upon a contract, obligation or liability
not founded upon an instrument of writing ….’ This provision applies not only
to actions for breach of oral or implied contracts and to
quasi-contractual actions, but also to certain tort actions that do not come
within the scope of other statutes of limitations.” (Barton v. New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (1996)
43 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1206.) Defendants cite to paragraph 40
of the SAC, which alleges that “contrary to Russell’s denials, on or about July
8, 2019, SecurCapital unilaterally closed a deal to purchase the assets of
Breakout through BHI. SecurCapital did so without the involvement or prior
consent of Wave…” (SAC, ¶ 40.) As to the Partnership Claims, Defendants assert
that “[t]he statute limitations expired on July 8, 2021,” and that “Plaintiff
waited until December 31, 2021, to file suit.” (Mot. at p. 10:22-23.)
As
to the negligent misrepresentation cause of action, Defendants cite to Ventura County
Nat. Bank v. Macker (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1528, 1529, where the Court of Appeal noted that “we hold that in an
action against accountants for negligent misrepresentation, the statute of
limitations is two years.” Defendants note
that in the eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n July 8, 2019, only about a week
after representing to Wave that there was no secret deal, Defendants and
Breakout closed a deal without Wave. Defendants made no attempts to correct or
alert Wave of their misrepresentation before closing the deal on July 8, 2019.”
(SAC, ¶ 97.) Defendants assert that “Plaintiff filed its original complaint
more than two years later. Therefore, the Negligent Misrepresentation claim is
barred by the statute of limitations.” (Mot. at p. 12:19-20.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff first asserts
that “[t]he Court should not bifurcate Defendants’ statute of limitations
defense because it would result in two trials that will require the same
witnesses to testify twice about the same facts and circumstances.” (Opp’n at
p. 10:5-7.) Plaintiff also asserts that “[e]ven if the defense was successful,
the parties would still go to trial on Wave’s claims for breach of contract,
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, conversion, and fraudulent concealment.
Adjudication of those claims would require testimony and evidence as to all of
the same facts.” (Opp’n at p. 10:15-18.)[2] 
            Plaintiff cites to Foreman &
Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he major objective
of bifurcated trials is to expedite and simplify the presentation of
evidence…Yet this objective would be thwarted by the limitation of the scope of
evidence introduced at one stage of a bifurcated trial to the issue presented
at that stage. To assure that the trier of fact could consider all the evidence
on each issue, the parties would be required to reintroduce every piece of
evidence at each stage of the trial. Thus, in the present case, plaintiff had
to show the difference between the agreed rent and the rental value of the
premises to establish damages. If plaintiff’s theory were applied, plaintiff
would have been required to reintroduce the lease in evidence during the
damages stage of the trial to show the agreed rent. The prior admission of the
lease during the first stage of the trial would not suffice. Such duplication
of effort is the very opposite of the purpose of bifurcated trials.”  
Defendants do not appear to respond to Plaintiff’s
assertion that the
Court should not bifurcate Defendants’ statute of limitations defense because
it would result in two trials that will require the same witnesses to testify
twice about the same facts and circumstances. Indeed, Defendants’ statute of
limitations argument concerns the Partnership Claims and the negligent
misrepresentation cause of action. However, the statute of limitations argument
is not addressed to Plaintiff’s causes of action for breach of contract,
fraudulent concealment, fraudulent misrepresentation, or unjust enrichment. As
discussed, under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b), “[t]he court, in furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action…or of
any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues…” 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that Defendants have demonstrated good cause “for an order
bifurcating or severing trial of Plaintiff’s causes of action for Breach of
Partnership or Joint Venture Agreement, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Declaratory
Relief, Conversion, Constructive Trust, Accounting, and Negligent
Misrepresentation on the grounds that these causes of action are barred by the
statute of limitations…” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:9-13.) 
Arguments
Concerning Illegality and Equitable Claims and Defenses
Defendants
also move “for an order setting a bench trial of Defendants’ special defenses
of Illegality, Equitable Estoppel, Unclean Hands, and Unjust Enrichment.” (Notice
of Motion at p. 2:13-14.) 
Defendants
argue that “[t]he Non-Circumvention Agreement and Alleged Partnership Agreement
are not enforceable because they are predicated on illegal consideration.”
(Mot. at p. 12:21-22.) More specifically, Defendants assert that Plaintiff
“violated the California Bus. & Prof. Code by acting [sic] an unlicensed
business opportunity broker,” that Plaintiff “violated the California
Corporations Code by negotiating the sale of securities without a license,” and
that Plaintiff “violated federal securities laws by negotiating the sale of
securities without a license.” (Mot. at pp. 13:6-7; 15:19-20; 16:10-11.) However,
as an initial matter, Defendants do not provide any evidence with the motion to
support their assertion that “[n]either [Plaintiff] nor Boyce had a broker’s
license.” (Mot. at p. 14:23.) The Court notes that Defendants provide evidence
in connection with the reply, but “¿¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿¿” (Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)
And
in any event, Plaintiff argues that the Court should not bifurcate Defendants’
defense of illegality because it would result in two duplicative trials.
Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he illegality defense would require the introduction
of testimony and documentary evidence as to the entirety of [Plaintiff’s]
actions with respect to the Breakout investment opportunity, such that the
Court could determine if [Plaintiff’s] actions constituted the brokering of
securities or a business opportunity. Even if Defendants prevailed on this
defense, there would still – at a minimum – be a trial on [Plaintiff’s] fraud
claim, which would require largely the same evidence.” (Opp’n at p. 13:1-5.) Plaintiff
asserts that its “claim for fraud is not predicated on the Agreement or
partnership – rather, it is based Defendants’ lie to [Plaintiff], wherein they
stated that they did not have a secret deal to close the Breakout acquisition
without [Plaintiff], even though they did, in fact, have a secret deal to close
the Breakout acquisition without [Plaintiff].” (Opp’n at p. 12:24-27.) Defendants
do not appear to respond to this point in the reply. As discussed, “[t]he major objective of bifurcated trials
is to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon, supra, 3 Cal.3d at p. 888.)

Lastly,
Defendants assert that “good cause exists to bifurcate and first adjudicate
equitable claims and defenses in a bench trial.” (Mot. at p. 17:23-24.) Defendants
cite to Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1238,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]hen an action involves both legal and
equitable issues, the equitable issues, ordinarily, are tried first, for this
may obviate the necessity for a subsequent trial of the legal issues.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) Defendants assert that “[h]ere, the
equitable claims predominate. While [Plaintiff] includes a request for damages,
every other principal form of relief sought is equitable, including: remedies
for Disgorgement of Profits, Unjust Enrichment, Specific Performance,
Accounting, Constructive Trust, Alter Ego, and Declaratory Relief.” (Mot. at p.
18:14-17.) In the prayer for relief of the SAC, Plaintiff seeks, inter alia,
“[a]n award of monetary damages according to proof,” and “punitive and
exemplary damages,” as well as “a declaration that Plaintiff and SecurCapital
formed a partnership, or in the alternative, entered into a joint venture,”
“specific performance of the partnership or joint venture agreement between
Plaintiff and SecurCapital,” “disgorgement of profits and other unjustly
obtained benefits according to proof,” an “[a]ccount for the status and
disposition of the funds received from Plaintiff, at all material times,” and to
“[i]mpose a constructive trust on all funds that Defendants would not have
received but for their wrongful conduct…” (SAC, p. 23.) 
Defendants
also assert that “most of SecurCapital’s affirmative defenses are equitable,
including, Equitable Estoppel, Unclean Hands, and Unjust Enrichment.” (Mot. at
p. 21:5-6.)[3] 
Defendants contend that “[h]ere, after a bench trial resolving the
Statute of Limitations and Illegality, and the claims for Disgorgement of
Profits, Unjust Enrichment, Specific Performance, Accounting, Constructive
Trust, Alter Ego and Declaratory Relief, as well as Defendants’ equitable
defenses, the parties and Court are likely to avoid the need for a jury trial.”
(Mot. at p. 21:11-14.) 
            Plaintiff counters that “as to
[Plaintiff’s] equitable claims – constructive trust, accounting, unjust
enrichment, and declaratory relief – there is no benefit to conducting separate
jury and bench trials as these will all require duplicative testimony and
evidence…” (Opp’n at p. 19:14-16.) As set forth above, Code
of Civil Procedure section 598 provides that “[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends
of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be
promoted thereby…make an order…that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,
except for special defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5…” Plaintiff asserts
that here, “bifurcating the equitable claims would not serve those
purposes. Rather, it would just result in two trials instead of one.” (Opp’n at
p. 19:19-20.) 
            Based on a
consideration of the arguments presented by the parties, the Court does not
find that Defendants have demonstrated good cause “for an order
setting a bench trial of Defendants’ special defenses of Illegality, Equitable
Estoppel, Unclean Hands, and Unjust Enrichment.” (Notice of Motion at p.
2:13-14.) 
Conclusion 
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to bifurcate.   
            Plaintiff is ordered to
provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  November 3, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon.
Rolf M. Treu
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


