 Case Number:  19STCV44789    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



ROBERT YU, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
JACK FAULKNER, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV44789




Hearing Date:


November 3, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:

 
MOTION BY RAYMOND MUNRO FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
On December 11, 2019, Plaintiffs Robert Yu and Minghui Huang (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against a number of defendants, including
Raymond Munro (“Munro”) and Henry Suarez (“Suarez”). Plaintiffs filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on June 17, 2020, alleging causes of
action for (1) breach of written contract for sale of real property, (2)
violation of Civil Code sections 1102 et seq.,
(3) violation of Civil Code sections 2079 et seq.,
(4) negligence, (5) fraudulent concealment, (6) fraudulent
misrepresentation, (7) negligent misrepresentation, (8) violation of Civil Code sections 896 et seq., (9) breach of
third-party beneficiary contract, and (10) breach of fiduciary duties. 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he real property which is the
subject of this litigation is located at 3933 Barryknoll Drive, in the city of
Los Angeles, 90065-4305, County of Los Angeles” (the “Subject Property”). (FAC,
¶ 11.) On or about October 29, 2017, Plaintiffs and Suarez entered into a
written agreement by which Plaintiffs agreed to purchase and defendants agreed
to sell the Subject Property (the “Agreement”). (FAC, ¶ 18.) On or about
December 3, 2017, Plaintiffs and Suarez entered into an amendment of the
Agreement (the “Repair Agreement”). (FAC, ¶ 21.) In the Repair Agreement,
Suarez agreed to repair certain issues in the Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[Suarez], [Munro], and
Does 1 through 50, and each of them, breached the contracts in that they failed
to perform their services in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with the
applicable building codes and the documents incorporated into the written
contracts, such as the plans and specifications for the Subject Property.”
(FAC, ¶ 102.) In addition, Plaintiffs allege that “Civil
Code Section 896 et seq. sets, defines, and imposes
standards with respect to residential construction and the functions
and components of structures, dwellings, buildings, and improvements
(the “Standards”).” (FAC, ¶ 97.) Plaintiffs allege that “[Suarez]
and [Munro], and each of them, are responsible for violating the Standards by virtue
of their respective involvements in the Subject Property and the defects and
deficiencies existing
therein
as a result of such involvements…” (FAC, ¶ 99.) 
On September 18, 2020, Suarez filed a Cross-Complaint against Munro
and Vista Enterprise, Inc., alleging causes of action for (1) negligence, (2)
comparative indemnity, (3) contribution, and (4) declaratory relief. 
Munro now moves for leave to file a Cross-Complaint. Suarez joins in
the motion. Plaintiffs oppose.
On October 4, 2023, the Court issued a minute order continuing the
hearing on the instant motion to November 3, 2023. The Court noted that “as Munro’s
proposed Cross-Complaint was submitted with the reply, Plaintiffs have not had
the opportunity to respond to it. In order to provide Plaintiffs the
opportunity to respond to the proposed Cross-Complaint, the Court will continue
the hearing on the motion.” (See October 4, 2023 Minute Order.) The
Court’s October 4, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[b]y
October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs may file and serve a supplemental opposition to
address the proposed Cross-Complaint submitted in connection with Munro’s
reply, with a courtesy copy delivered to Dept. 50.” On October 25, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a supplemental opposition to the instant motion. 
Discussion
            Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), “[a] party shall file a cross-complaint against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (b), “[a]ny other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.”
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (c), cited by Munro, “[a] party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.” In addition, Munro cites to City of Hanford v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 580, 587, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he reason for allowing cross-complaints is to have a
complete determination of a controversy among the parties in one action, thus
avoiding circuity of action and duplication of time and effort.” 
Munro asserts that it is in the interest of justice to permit Munro to
file his proposed Cross-Complaint.  
In support of the
instant motion, Munro submits the declaration of his counsel, who states that “[o]n
or around June 19, 2023, during the normal course of discovery in this action,
I identified five individuals or entities that performed subcontractor or
design professional services on the construction project at issue in this
case.” (Tutorow Decl., ¶ 4.) Munro’s counsel states that he “immediately
notified counsel for all parties to the action of the identity of these
individuals and entities and [his] intention to file a Cross-Complaint against
these entities through a stipulation…” (Tutorow Decl., ¶ 5) Munro’s counsel
states that Plaintiffs would not so stipulate. (Tutorow Decl., ¶ 6.) 
            Munro’s proposed Cross-Complaint[1]
alleges causes of action for (1) implied and equitable indemnity, (2)
contribution, and (3) declaratory relief against Cross-Defendants R.C.
Drilling, Inc., Elizabeth Herron Architect, Advanced Engineering and
Consulting, Robles Engineering, Inc., and Bardez Landscape Services, Inc. In
the motion, Munro argues that if he “is not granted leave to file his
Cross-Complaint, he will suffer significant prejudice, as refusal to grant
leave would entirely deprive Munro of his chance to seek indemnity,
contribution, or declaratory relief against entities and individuals who participated
in the construction project at issue in this case.” (Mot. at p. 1:6-9.) 
             In the opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Munro’s request for leave is delayed. Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[o]n
or about August 16, 2019, Plaintiffs served a Noticed of Claimed Violation of
Residential Standards (‘SB800 Notice’) on Defendant.” (Nozar Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs
assert that “Defendant was aware of the facts comprising its claim more than
two years ago. Through service of the SB800 Notice on August 16, 2019,
Plaintiffs made Defendant aware of the nature and scope of the defects/damage
complaint of and specific Civil Code sections that Plaintiffs alleged were
violated, and therefore Defendants were aware of the facts that constitute its
counterclaims.” (Opp’n at p. 9:25-28.) 
            Plaintiffs also assert that “no
later than January 28, 2021, more than two years ago, Defendants were made
aware of the actual identity of four out of five of the proposed
cross-defendants,” and that “during his deposition on November 18, 2021,
Defendant confirmed that he was aware of the identity of Elizabeth Herron, R.C.
Drilling, Inc., Advanced Engineering, and Robles Engineering…” (Opp’n at p.
10:5-8.) Plaintiffs indicate that on or about January 28, 2021, Suarez served
responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories. (Nozar Decl., ¶
7, Ex. E.) Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatory No. 7 provides, “IDENTIFY all
DESIGN PROFESSIONALS who worked on the SUBJECT PROPERTY.” (Ibid.) Suarez’s response to this interrogatory
provides as follows:
 
“Mr. Suarez
responds as follows: 
To his
knowledge, the following ‘design professionals’ performed services related to
the Subject Property: 
Elisabeth
Herron, Herron & Associates 
(818) 209-9149 
David Silverman,
Advanced Engineering 
(818) 222-7982
 Gustavo Robles, Gus Robles Engineering 
(818) 314-8166 
Arsen Mongrosian

(818) 669-6469.”
(Nozar Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. E.)
Plaintiffs also state that on November 18, 2021, Plaintiffs took the
deposition of Munro, and cite to the following testimony from the deposition:
“Q. Who prepared the drawings to build the 3933 Barryknoll Drive? A: An
architect did that. Q: Who was the architect? A. Name is Elizabeth Herron. Q.
How was the last name spelled? A-A-R-O-N? A. Yeah. No, Herron, H-E-R-R-O-N.”
(Nozar Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. G (Munro Depo.) at pp. 58:23-59:4.) In addition,
Plaintiffs indicate that “[i]n response to Plaintiff’s request for production
of documents, Defendant produced various documents at the deposition, including
but not limited to an invoice, dated March 18, 2015, from R.C. Drilling,
Inc…Defendant also produced an excel spreadsheet identifying the construction
costs, which included costs incurred from Advanced Engineering and Robles
Engineering.” (Nozar Decl., ¶ 10.)    
Plaintiffs further assert that “[t]he only cross-defendant missing in
Defendant Suarez’s response to the Special Interrogatories was Bardez Landscape
Service, Inc. However…on January 28, 2021, Defendant Suarez served discovery
responses identifying Arsen Mongrosian who is the RMO, CEO, and President of
Bardez Landscape Service, Inc.” (Opp’n at p. 10:11-14.) Plaintiffs’ counsel
states in his supporting declaration that “[p]er the California Contractor
State License Board, Arsen Mongrosian serves as the RMO, CEO, and President of
Bardez Landscape Service, Inc.” (Nozar Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F.) 
In his declaration in support of the motion, Munro’s counsel states
that “[m]y firm Sobel & Associates substituted into this case on January 5,
2023 with attorney Gregory Marks being named attorney of record. On or around
February 24, 2023, Mr. Marks left Sobel & Associates, and I was named
attorney of record along with my partner, Steven A. Sobel.” (Tutorow Decl., ¶
1.) As discussed above, Munro’s current counsel, Mr. Tutorow, states that “[o]n
or around June 19, 2023, during the normal course of discovery in this action,
I identified five individuals or entities that performed subcontractor or
design professional services on the construction project at issue in this
case.”  (Tutorow Decl., ¶ 4.) In the
reply, Munro argues that “Plaintiffs seem to suggest that Munro, a
seventy-nine-year-old man with no litigation experience, should have realized
that his prior counsel was not adequately representing his interests and taken
more effort to direct a Cross-Complaint be filed against certain parties. In
reality, Mr. Munro trusted that prior counsel was acting in his best interest,
which appears to have been misplaced.” (Reply at p. 2:5-9.) 
Plaintiffs also assert in the opposition that they will be prejudiced
if leave is granted. Plaintiffs state that they “filed the instant action on or
about December 11, 2019, and therefore, their five-year deadline to prosecute
their case is quickly approaching.” (Opp’n at p. 10:28-11:1.) In the reply,
Munro argues that he “presented this issue to both counsel for Plaintiffs and
counsel for Henry Suarez in June of this year. Plaintiffs have spent four
months fighting…to prevent these…parties from being named. If not for
Plaintiffs, these parties would already be participating in this action, and
the case would be closer to resolution.” (Reply at p. 3:19-22.) Plaintiffs
further argue that “[i]f leave is granted and new cross-defendants are named,
the scope of the instant action will be significantly broadened. Trial will be
continued for months. Plaintiffs will likely have to respond to discovery from
these cross-defendants and conduct additional site inspection(s). Plaintiffs
will also need to incur significant consultant fees to conduct the additional
expert meetings. This all will cause Plaintiffs to incur significant attorney
and consultant fees.” (Opp’n at p. 11:7-11.) 
            However, based on a consideration of
the arguments presented by the parties, the Court find that Munro has
demonstrated that it is in the interest of justice to permit Munro to file the
proposed Cross-Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Munro’s motion for
leave to file a Cross-Complaint is granted. The Court orders
Munro to file and serve the proposed Cross-Complaint within 3 days of the date
of this Order.
Munro is ordered to provide notice of this
Order. 
 
DATED:  November 3, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


