 Case Number:  19STCV46503    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50
 



curtis r. olson,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
vidala aaronoff, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV46503




Hearing Date:


November 3, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




TENTATIVE
  RULING RE: 
 
MOTION
  FOR RELIEF AND TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



Background
Plaintiff Curtis R. Olson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December
23, 2019 against multiple parties, including Defendant Vidala Aaronoff, an
individual and as trustee of the ATW Trust, with an effective date of January
1, 2012, and Milder Arroliga, as trustee of the ATW Trust, with an effective
date of January 1, 2012.  
 Plaintiff filed the operative
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on November 17, 2020, alleging ten causes of
action. 
On August 19, 2023, Jane Doe filed a Cross-Complaint in this action
against, inter alia, Plaintiff. The Cross-Complaint alleges nine causes
of action. 
On November 4, 2021, default was entered in this action against defendants
“Milder Arroliga, as trustee of the ATW Trust, With An Effective Date of
January 1, 2012; The Ancient Temple of Wings, an entity of unknown form; John
Walkowiak, as trustee of the ATW Trust, With An Effective Date of January 1,
2012.” 
“Specially Appearing Morgan Smith trustee of the ATW TRUST” (herein,
“Smith”) now moves “for relief from and to set aside the default entered
against ATW Trust on November 4, 2021.” Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled 
            Discussion 
            As set forth above, Smith moves “for
relief from and to set aside the default entered against ATW Trust on November
4, 2021.” However, as an initial matter, default was not entered on November 4,
2021 against the entity “ATW Trust.” As set forth above, on November 4, 2021,
default was entered against, inter alia, “Milder Arroliga, as trustee of
the ATW Trust, With An Effective Date of January 1, 2012,” “The Ancient Temple
of Wings, an entity of unknown form,” and “John Walkowiak, as trustee of the
ATW Trust, With An Effective Date of January 1, 2012.” Thus, there are
procedural issues with the motion. 
            In the motion, Smith cites to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), which provides that “[t]he court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own
motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as
to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either
party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.” 
            Smith
argues that “[t]he default entered against Arroliga[1] is
void because he was not the trustee of the ATW Trust and not the proper party
for service of process on behalf of the ATW Trust. The real party in interest,
Morgan Smith, trustee of the ATW Trust, was never served in any manner, nor did
he receive actual notice.” (Mot. at p. 5:17-20.) Smith also argues that “[t]he
default entered against Walkowiak[2] is
void because he was not the trustee of the ATW Trust and was not the property
party for service of process on behalf of the ATW Trust.” (Mot. at p. 7:7-8.)
But
as noted by Plaintiff, Smith does not appear to argue that the default entered
on November 4, 2021 contains any clerical
mistake. Thus, the Court does not see how Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d) is applicable here. 
            Next,
Smith argues that “[t]he Default Entered Against Milder Arroliga should
be set aside under equitable principles due to extrinsic mistake as there was
no service on the true Trustee.” (Mot. at p. 6:5-6.) Smith also argues that
“[t]he Default Entered Against Walkowiak should be set aside under equitable
principles due to extrinsic mistake as there was no service on the true
trustee.” (Mot. at p. 7:22-24.) Smith filed a declaration in support of the
instant motion in which he states that he is “currently the true trustee of the
ATW TRUST,” and that he “has been the trustee of the ATW TRUST since 2017.”
(Smith Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Smith further states that “Milder Arroliga has not been
a trustee of the ATW TRUST since 2017,” and that “John Walkowiak was never a
trustee of the ATW TRUST.” (Smith Decl., ¶ 5.) 
            Smith cites to Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8
Cal.4th 975, 981, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[a]fter six months from entry of default, a trial court may still
vacate a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is
unavailable…One ground for equitable relief is extrinsic mistake--a term
broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly
cost a party a hearing on the merits. Extrinsic mistake is found when [among
other things] … a mistake led a court to do what it never intended…” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) Smith argues that
“[h]ere, through reasons unknown to Morgan Smith, Plaintiffs
purportedly served Arroliga. That is no fault of the trust, and at best is a
mistake on the party [sic] of Plaintiff or some third party.” (Mot. at p.
6:18-19.) Smith further asserts that “through reasons unknown to Morgan Smith,
Plaintiffs served Walkowiak. That is no fault of the Trust, and at best is a
mistake on the party [sic] of Plaintiff or some third party.” (Mot. at p.
8:1-2.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states in his declaration in support of the
opposition that “Arroliga executed at least one declaration, swearing under
oath that he was a trustee of the ATW Trust. (Ex. D.) At no time did Arroliga
indicate that Smith was a trustee, let alone the only true trustee, or even
mention his or her name.” (Kennedy Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.) Plaintiff argues that
“[i]t simply is not credible that Smith has been a trustee for six years and
failed to ever appear during the extensive procedural battles regarding two
defaults entered against two other trustees of the same trust. Smith is
represented by the same lawyer that represented Arroliga in his efforts to
vacate the default, so there can be no doubt that Smith was aware of what was
going on.” (Opp’n at p. 2:16-19.) Smith does not appear to address this
assertion in the reply.[3]
            Plaintiff also notes that on
September 26, 2023, the Court issued an Order in this action providing, “[t]he
application of Plaintiff Curtis O. Olson for a several judgment having been
considered, it is hereby ORDERED that defendants Milder Arroliga, as trustee of
the ATW Trust, With An Effective Date Of January 1, 2012, The Ancient Temple Of
Wings and John Walkowiak, as trustee of the ATW Trust, With An Effective Date
Of January 1, 2012, are severed from this action for the purpose of entry of
default judgment, leaving the action to proceed against the remaining
defendants Vidala Aaronoff, An Individual and As Trustee Of The ATW Trust, With
An Effective Date Of January 1, 2012, Gloria P.
Martinez-Senftner, Martinez Law Group, P.C and Does 2 through 20.” Plaintiff
argues that accordingly, “[t]he only remaining issue is entry of default
judgment. Smith appears to be aware of this having left both Arroliga and
Walkowiak off the motion. The ATW Trust, via its trustees, is no longer an
active defendant in this action, making Smith’s motion procedurally defective.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:1-4.) Smith does not appear to address this assertion in the
reply. Indeed, as discussed above, Smith moves “for relief from and to set
aside the default entered against ATW Trust on November 4, 2021,” although no
such default was entered against the entity “ATW Trust.”  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Smith’s motion is denied. 

Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  November 3, 2023  
                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


