 Case Number:  22SMCV01418    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Roth v. Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc., et al., Case No. 22SMCV01418
Hearing date January
19, 2024
Defendant
Arakelian Enterprises’ Motion to Reclassify Matter as Limited Jurisdiction 
 
Plaintiff Roth
alleges defendant Arakelian dba Athens’s sanitation truck struck his parked car.
The operative Second Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
negligence and (2) breach of contract. Plaintiff seeks “general and/or
compensatory damages in an amount to be proven at trial.” Complaint, 29:1. The
complaint does not set forth an identifiable sum of monetary relief sought.
 
On December 13,
2023 the Court granted plaintiff’s motion to compel Athens’ further responses
to plaintiff’s first set of requests for production of documents. On December
21, 2023, Athens moved for an order reclassifying this case as one of limited
jurisdiction. 
 
The Court rejects plaintiff’s
argument that the motion should be denied due to a clerical error in the notice.
Athens’ notice of errata corrected its error, and plaintiff has not shown
prejudice due to the typographical error. 
 
“The court shall
grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification, regardless of any
fault or lack of fault, if the case has been classified in an incorrect
jurisdictional classification.” Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a). 
 
Athens argues this
action should be reclassified because the amount in controversy is less than
$25,000. Plaintiff asserts the amount in controversy is reasonably expected to
exceed $25,000 due to the breach of contract causes of action. 
 
“[A] matter may be
reclassified as a limited civil action when (i) the absence of jurisdiction is
apparent before trial from the complaint, petition, or related documents, or
(ii) during the course of pretrial litigation, it becomes clear that the matter
will necessarily result in a verdict below the superior court’s jurisdictional
amount.” Ytuarte v. Superior Court, 129 Cal.App.4th 266, 276, citation
omitted, internal quotations omitted, emphasis in original. “[T]he test [is] .
. . whether lack of jurisdiction is clear . . . [or] virtually unattainable.” Id.
at p. 277, citation omitted, internal quotations omitted. “This standard
involves an evaluation of the amount fairly in controversy, not an adjudication
of the merits of the claim, and . . . requires a high level of certainty that
[the] damage award will not exceed $25,000.” Id., citation
omitted, emphasis original.  “[T]he
superior court must deny the motion to reclassify the case as limited (and thus
keep the matter in the unlimited civil court) unless it appears to a
legal certainty that the plaintiff’s damages will necessarily be less than
$25,000.” Id., emphasis original. 

 
Defendant argues
that other than one section in which plaintiff alleges his vehicle sustained
“street side damage to the side of his car,” he makes no allegations of the
extent of damage to his vehicle. Weiss Decl., ¶ 6. In discovery responses, plaintiff
fails to provide information related to alleged damage sustained to his
vehicle. Weiss Decl., ¶ 7. Plaintiff indicated it was unknown or unrecallable
as to what, if any, repairs were made. Weiss Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibits B and C. Plaintiff
failed to provide responses to the “9 Series—Other Damages” of form
interrogatories. Weiss Decl., ¶ 9. 
 
Plaintiff failed
to provide documentation of alleged damage in response to a request for
production of documents. Weiss Decl., ¶ 10; Exhibits D and E. Defendant has been
provided no information regarding the amount of damages, other than a statement
plaintiff made at the informal discovery conference when plaintiff responded to
the court’s inquiry regarding the amount of damage to his vehicle, to which plaintiff
responded “about $5,000.” Weiss Decl., ¶ 11. 
 
Despite efforts to
obtain information as to plaintiff’s claimed damages, plaintiff states such
information was provided to defendant’s customer service pre-suit. Weiss Decl.,
¶ 12. 
 
In opposition, plaintiff
argues multiple contract breaches support unlimited jurisdiction. Roth Decl., ¶¶
6-7. Plaintiff argues liquated damages are stated to support unlimited
jurisdiction. Roth Decl., ¶ 19. Plaintiff sets forth examples of intentional
and misleading statements in Weiss’ declaration. Roth Decl., ¶¶ 10-18. 
 
The SAC does not
set forth a specific amount of damages sought. From the face of the SAC, the
Court cannot conclude plaintiff’s damages will not exceed $25,000. Statements
in a declaration of counsel cannot establish damages. 
 
Plaintiff provided
no substantive information or documents as to damages in response to discovery.
The court must therefore conclude there is no such evidence. Weiss Decl.,
Exhibits C and E. Per the discovery responses, the court must conclude to a
legal certainty the damages cannot exceed $25,000. 
 
Regarding
plaintiff’s breach of contract claims, he has not shown evidence or
substantively responded to discovery establishing a contract with defendant, his
own performance, defendant’s breach or damages. CACI 300, et seq. He has not
produced documentation establishing any of these elements, nor has he
substantively responded to discovery regarding these elements. 
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the court concludes that, to a legal certainty, plaintiff’s damages
will necessarily be less than $25,000. The motion is GRANTED.