  Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al. Motion to Quash Service of Summons as to Defendant Jinghan Zhang  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS the motion to quash service of summons as to  Defendant Jinghan Zhang. Plaintiff’s service of the Summons and Complaint on  Defendant Jinghan Zhang is hereby quashed.  Plaintiff must serve the First Amended Complaint on Defendant  Jinghan Zhang in the same lawful manner authorized for service of the original  Complaint.               Defendant Jinghan Zhang is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun  Zhang (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang, Jinghan  Zhang (Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc., Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for promissory  fraud, breach of oral contract, rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code §  1689(b), breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, civil conspiracy,  conversion, actual fraudulent conveyance, constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet  title, common count: money had and received, breach of fiduciary duty, breach  of fiduciary duty (second), imposition of constructive trust, and theft damages  under Penal Code section 496(c).  On September 29, 2023, Jinghan filed the instant motion to quash  service of summons. On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On October  31, 2023, Jinghan replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD A defendant may move to quash  service on the ground that the court lacks jurisdiction by filing a noticed  motion to quash the service of summons at any time before the expiration of its  time to plead. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) When a defendant  argues that service of summons did not bring him or her within the trial  court’s jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden of proving the facts that  did give the court jurisdiction, that is, the facts requisite to an effective  service. (Code Civ. Proc., §418.10; Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434,  449 [upon a defendant’s motion to quash, “the plaintiff has the initial burden  of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.”].) Once  Plaintiff establish facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state, “it becomes  the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would  be unreasonable.” (Ibid.)  EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS             The Court OVERRULES  Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections. The Court OVERRULES Jinghan’s Objection  Number 1, and SUSTAINS the remainder of Jinghan’s evidentiary objections.  DISCUSSION Analysis             Defendant Jinghan moves to quash  service of process on the grounds that Jinghan did not and does not reside at  the address where Plaintiff attempted to effect substitute service of the  complaint on Jinghan. (Jinghan Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiff therefore bears the  initial burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that service of  process was properly effected as to Jinghan. (Vons Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449.)              Plaintiff contends that service was  properly effected since Jinghan is the owner of the real property where  substitute service was effected. (Chu Decl., Ex. 1.) Plaintiff cites to Kott  v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126 for the contention that  searching the real and personal property index is sufficient to show a party  exercised reasonable diligence. (Id., at p. 1137.) Plaintiff also cites  to Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University v. Ham (2013) 216  Cal.App.4th 330 (Ham) for the contention that two or three attempts at a  proper place normally qualifies as reasonable diligence. (Id., at p.  337.) The Court disagrees.              Code  of Civil Procedure section 415.20 provides that a person may be substitute  served at their “dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,  or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office  box…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) Plaintiff has not presented sufficient  evidence to establish that the address where substitute service was performed here  was Jinghan’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or  usual mailing address. It is not enough that Jinghan is the owner of record of  the subject property, (See Chu Decl., Ex. 1.) Plaintiff must provide evidence  that that address is one of the qualifying locations provided under Code of  Civil Procedure section 415.20, subdivision (b). (See Code Civ. Proc., §  415.20, subd. (b).)  It is also not enough  that the grant deed indicates that the recorded document is to be returned to Jinghan  at the subject property, since the grant deed contains no indication that she  executed and recorded the grant deed. (See Chu Decl., Ex. 1; Bolun Decl., ¶ 3; B. Unlawful Detainer Complaint, Cal. Prac. Guide  Landlord-Tenant Ch. 8-B [“(By implication from Zirbes, ‘usual mailing address’  probably requires service at the place defendant regularly receives  mail (other than a U.S. Postal Service post office box), not at some other  occasional mailing address.)”; see also Zirbes v.  Stratton (1987) 187 Cal.App.3d 1407, 1417 [“To be  constitutionally sound the form of substituted service must be ‘reasonably  calculated to give an interested party actual notice of the proceedings and an  opportunity to be heard ... [in order that] the traditional notions of fair  play and substantial justice implicit in due process are satisfied.’”].)  Moreover, the Court is also not persuaded that Jinghan  signed the certified mail return receipt, as Defendant Bolun claims to have  signed it and in light of the Court sustaining Jinghan’s Objection Number 4.  (See Chu Decl., Ex., 2; Bolun Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff also has not presented any evidence to  controvert Jinghan’s declaration, wherein Jinghan explicitly states that she  does not reside at the subject property, that she currently resides in China,  and that she was residing in China when Plaintiff attempted to effect  substitute service against her. (See Jinghan Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)              Furthermore, Plaintiff’s citations  to Kott and Ham are unpersuasive because they do not stand for  the propositions for which they are cited. The part of Kott that  Plaintiff cites was addressing reasonable diligence requirements in the context  of service by publication, not substitute service. (Kott, supra, 45  Cal.App.4th at p. 1137.) With respect to Ham, it simply refers to  effecting substitute service at a “proper place” in the context of Code of  Civil Procedure section 415.20, which, as explained above, refers to the  defendant’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or  usual mailing address. (See Ham, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at p. 337.)              Finally, Plaintiff has been provided  Jinghan’s physical address in China in response to Plaintiff’s discovery  request. (Bolun Decl., Ex. B; Chu Decl., Ex. 4.) Policy favors personal service  where available. (See Ham, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at p. 336.) Therefore,  Plaintiff should serve Jinghan at the address that has been provided here.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to quash  service of summons as to Jinghan.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion to quash service of summons as to  Defendant Jinghan Zhang. Plaintiff’s service of the Summons and Complaint on  Defendant Jinghan Zhang is hereby quashed.  Plaintiff must serve the First Amended Complaint on Defendant  Jinghan Zhang in the same lawful manner authorized for service of the original  Complaint.                Defendant Jinghan Zhang is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.