  Case Number:  21PSCV00633    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Karl Schroeder’s Motion to Reopen Expert
Witness Discovery
Respondent: Defendants
Manohar Singh and San Dimas Animal Hospital
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Karl Schroeder’s Motion to Reopen Expert
Witness Discovery is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This is a negligence action
arising from the treatment of a dog. In February 2020, Plaintiff Karl Schroeder
brought a dog named Allie to Defendants Manohar Singh and San Dimas Animal
Hospital for diagnosis and treatment of a minor limp. Schroeder alleges Singh
and San Dimas Animal Hospital’s examination resulted in further injury to
Allie.
On August 5, 2021, Schroeder
filed a complaint against Singh, San Dimas Animal Hospital, and Does 1-25,
alleging a single cause of action for general negligence.
On October 14, 2024, Schroeder
filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for November
6, 2024, along with a final status conference on January 21, 2025, and a
non-jury trial on January 27, 2025.
ANALYSIS
Schroeder
moves for an order reopening expert witness discovery on the grounds that
Schroeder’s counsel inadvertently failed to serve Schroeder’s expert witness
designation by the designated exchange date. For the following reasons, the
court DENIES Schroeder’s motion.
Legal Standard
“On
motion of any party who has failed to submit expert witness information on the
date specified in a demand for that exchange, the court may grant leave to
submit that information at a later date.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710, subd.
(a).) The motion “shall be made a sufficient time in advance of the time limit
for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section
2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to
be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may
permit the motion to be made at a later time.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710,
subd. (b).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.710, subd. (c).)
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.720, “[t]he court shall grant leave to
submit tardy expert witness information only if all of the following conditions
are satisfied:
“(a) The court has taken into account the extent to
which the opposing party has relied on the absence of a list of expert
witnesses.
(b) The court has determined that any party opposing
the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense
on the merits.
(c) The court has determined that the moving party did
all of the following:
(1) Failed to submit the
information as the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.
(2) Sought leave to submit
the information promptly after learning of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect.
(3) Promptly thereafter
served a copy of the proposed expert witness information described in Section
2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.
(d) The order is conditioned on the moving party
making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3
(commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just,
including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to
designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from
those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period
of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party
opposing the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.720, subd. (a)-(d).)
Discussion
In
this case, Singh and San Dimas Animal Hospital’s counsel served Schroeder’s
counsel with a demand for exchange of expert witness information on March 18,
2024, with an exchange date of April 9, 2024. (Miller Decl., ¶ 6; Wallace
Decl., ¶ 3.) While Singh and San Dimas Animal Hospital’s counsel served their
statement on April 9, Schroeder’s counsel failed to do so. (Miller Decl., ¶ 6; Wallace
Decl., ¶ 3-4.) Schroeder’s counsel states the failure to do so was a result of
counsel’s inadvertence as counsel was dealing with multiple issues including
health problems and personnel changes. (Miller Decl., ¶ 5.)
The
declaration of Plaintiff’s Counsel, however, fails to clarify how these issues
resulted in counsel inadvertently missing important discovery dates. Counsel’s
declaration also fails to state when counsel first discovered the error and, by
counsel’s own admission, counsel failed to serve such disclosures before filing
the present motion as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.720,
subdivision (c)(3). (Miller Decl., ¶ 8.)
Accordingly,
the court finds Plaintiff’s counsel failed to meet the statutory requirements for
relief pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.720.  As such, Plaintiff’s motion is  DENIED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Schroeder’s motion to reopen expert witness discovery is DENIED.