 Case Number:  24PSCV00967    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff American Express National Bank’s Application
for Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff American Express National Bank’s Application
for Default Judgment is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a collections action arising from a credit card agreement. Within the last
four years, Plaintiff American Express National Bank (American Express)
extended credit through a credit card account to Defendants Joe Ballesteros and
J&J Inspections LLC (J&J Inspections). Subsequently, American Express
alleges Ballesteros and J&J Inspections became indebted in the amount of $50,061.56.
On March
26, 2024, American Express filed a complaint against Ballesteros, J&J
Inspections, and Does 1-10, alleging a sole cause of action for account stated. On April 2, 2024, American
Express’s process server served Ballesteros with personal service and J&J
Inspections with substitute service in Pomona.
On October
25, 2024, the court entered default against Ballesteros and J&J
Inspections after they
failed to timely file an answer. On the same day, American Express submitted the present
application for default judgment.
A OSC Re: Default/Default
Judgment is set for November 6, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
American
Express seeks default judgment against Ballesteros and J&J Inspections in
the total amount of $50,711.54, including $50,061.56 in damages and $649.98 in
costs. Because the court finds American Express has submitted sufficient
evidence, the court GRANTS their application for default judgment.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, American
Express’s application for default judgment is GRANTED.