 Case Number:  23PSCV02419    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Puente Hills Ford’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Jasmin
Davila
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Puente Hills Ford’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED IN PART as to the fifth cause of
action and SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the
sixth cause of action.
BACKGROUND
This
is a Song-Beverly action. In May 2020, Plaintiff Jasmin Davila allegedly
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Ford Motor Company (Ford) by
purchasing a 2020 Ford Explorer. Subsequently, Davila alleges the vehicle
exhibited defects with its engine, transmission, and electrical system.
On
August 8, 2023, Davila filed a complaint against Ford, Puente Hills Ford, and
Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of Civil Code
section 1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3); (4) breach of implied warranty of merchantability, (5) fraudulent
inducement by concealment, (6) negligent repair, and (7) violation of the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
On
September 8, 2023, Ford and Puente Hills Ford (collectively, the Ford Defendants)
filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing on September 7, the Ford
Defendants’ counsel met and conferred telephonically with Davila’s counsel and
was unable to reach a resolution. (Liu Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. D.) On October 11, 2023,
the court stayed proceedings on the demurrer pending proceedings before the California
Supreme Court on similar legal issues.
A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for November 6, 2024.
ANALYSIS
The
Ford Defendants demur to Davila’s fifth cause of action (concealment) and sixth
cause of action (negligent repair). For the following reasons, the court OVERRULES
the demurrer to Davila’s fifth cause of action and SUSTAINS the
demurrer to Davila’s sixth cause of action with leave to amend.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Concealment
(Fifth Cause of Action)
The
Ford Defendants argue Davila’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement
through concealment is barred by the economic loss rule and is insufficiently
pled. The court disagrees.
Economic
Loss Rule
Pursuant to the economic loss rule, “there is no
recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning
financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” (Sheen v.
Wells Fargo Bank. N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) It “functions to bar
claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract
between litigating parties.” (Id., at p. 922.) “Tort damages have been
permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical
injury [Citation]; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts [Citation]; for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy [Citation]; or where the contract was fraudulently
induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552.)¿ If fraud occurs independent of a breach
of contract, the economic loss rule does not apply. (See Robinson v.
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 991.) For
example, fraudulent misrepresentations made to induce a party to enter into an
agreement are not barred because they are independent of that breach of
contract. (Id., at p. 991.) And no distinction is made with regards to
whether the act of fraud was an affirmative representation or concealment of
material facts. (See Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17
Cal.5th 1, 39 (Rattagan).)
The Ford Defendants argue Davila’s cause of action fails
because it is based on alleged concealment as opposed to affirmative
misrepresentations. But as noted above, Rattagan has since rejected this
requirement. The Ford Defendants also argue Davila failed to adequately plead the
fraudulent inducement exception to the economic loss rule. Specifically, the
Ford Defendants argue Davila failed to allege that Ford did not intend to honor
its warranty obligations as required by Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe
Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1131. There, the court noted
“[t]o establish a claim of fraudulent inducement, one must show that the
defendant did not intend to honor its contractual promises when they were
made.” (Id., at p. 1131.) But this is not the correct standard here as Davila
did not allege Ford made a false promise or a false representation. Rather, Davila
has alleged Ford concealed material facts—transmission defects—from Davila.
(Complaint, ¶ 36.) And as demonstrated below, the court finds Davila has
adequately pled a cause of action for concealment.
Sufficiency of Concealment Allegations
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud
based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” (Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 830, 850, quoting Roddenberry v. Roddenberry (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 634, 665-666.)
One party’s failure to
disclose material facts unknown to another party is not fraud unless “unless
there is¿some relationship¿between the parties which gives rise to a
duty to disclose such known facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 337, quoting BAJI No. 12.36 (8th ed. 1994.) “In transactions
which do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for
non-disclosure of material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the
defendant makes representations but does not disclose facts which materially
qualify the facts disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to
mislead;¿(2)¿the facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant
knows they are not known to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff;¿(3)
the defendant actively conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Warner
Constr. Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294.)

Here, the Ford Defendants argue Davila failed to allege the defect
that Ford allegedly concealed. In the Complaint, Davila alleges Ford knew that
the vehicles at issue had transmission defects which resulted in hesitation,
delayed acceleration, harsh or hard shifting, jerking, shuddering, or
juddering. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Davila also alleges Ford actively concealed the
existence and nature of the defects from Davila at the time of purchase and
repair. (Complaint, ¶ 36.) While the Ford Defendants attempt to
undermine these allegations by claiming they merely demonstrate how the
transmissions may be defective, Davila’s actual allegation does not
contain such tentative language. Thus, the court finds these allegations are
sufficiently alleged.
Next, the Ford Defendants contend Davila failed to allege facts establishing Ford was under a duty to disclose
allegedly concealed facts. Davila alleges Ford was under a duty to disclose
because it had knowledge of defects through sources unavailable to Davila
including “including but not limited to pre-production testing
data, early consumer complaints about the transmission defect made directly to
[Ford] and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from
[Ford’s] network of dealers, testing conducted by [Ford] in response to these
complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by
[Ford] from [Ford’s] network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal
information.” (Complaint, ¶ 61.) Davila also alleges Davila “could not
reasonably have been expected to learn or discover of the Vehicle’s
Transmission Defect and its potential consequences until well after [Davila]
purchased the Vehicle.” (Complaint, ¶ 64(d).)
In
response, the Ford Defendants contend Davila failed to plead what the testing
revealed. But Davila does allege so, stating Ford acquired its knowledge of the
transmissions defect from sources including such testing data. (Complaint, ¶
61.) To the extent the Ford Defendants are demanding Davila allege the exact results of
those tests, such specificity is not required where “the allegations indicate that ‘the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy’” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158, quoting Bradley
v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825) or if “the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid, quoting Turner
v. Milstein (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 651, 658.)
The
Ford Defendants last contend Davila failed to allege
a connection between issues raised in consumer complaints and Davila’s own
vehicle. But again, such specificity is unnecessary where Davila has alleged
Ford acquired knowledge of the defect from these complaints and where the
contents of such complaints lie more in the knowledge of Ford. To the extent
Ford contests its knowledge and the existence of such transmission defects,
such contentions are inappropriate at the demurrer stage where Davila’s
well-pleaded allegations are deemed true.
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the Ford Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action.
Negligent
Repair (Sixth Cause of Action)
Puente
Hills Ford contends Davila’s sixth cause of action for negligent repair is
barred by the economic loss rule and fails to allege damages. The court agrees
it is barred by the economic loss rule.
As
noted in the previous section, the economic loss rule bars tort recovery for
“purely economic losses.” (Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 905.) This is because “conduct amounting
to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty
independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law.” (Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) In this case, Davila alleges Puente
Hills Ford owed Davila a duty “to use ordinary care and skill in storage,
preparation and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry
standards.” (Complaint, ¶ 74.) It is unclear, however, whether Puente Hills
Ford’s duty to repair Davila’s vehicle is contractual or based on an
independent duty. When it is unclear if an action arises from a contract or
noncontractual duty, “the action will be considered based on contract rather
than tort.” (Arthur L. Sachs, Inc. v. City of Oceanside (1984) 151
Cal.App.3d 315, 322.) Thus, because Davila’s negligent repair action is based
on a contractual duty to repair and Davila has not alleged any facts
establishing an independent noncontractual duty, Davila’s sixth cause of action
is barred by the economic loss rule.
Davila
contends there is an exception to the economic loss rule for negligently
performed professional services contracts. Indeed, such an exception does exist
to ensure “that the consumer receives the services the professional agreed to
provide.” (Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 933.) “In such
settings, professionals generally agree to provide ‘careful efforts’ in
rendering contracted-for services,¿but ‘most clients do not know enough to
protect themselves by inspecting the professional’s work or by other independent
means.’” (Ibid, quoting Rest.3d Torts, Liability for Economic Harm (June
2020) § 4, com. a., p. 22.) Such professional services can include those
offered by doctors, attorneys, accountants, and stockbrokers. (See Neel v.
Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176, 188.) But
Davila fails to provide any binding authority that holds these types of
professional services contracts include vehicle repair.
Davila
also relies on Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, which
holds “California decisional law has long recognized that the economic loss
rule does not necessarily bar recovery in tort for damage that a defective
product (e.g., a window) causes to other portions of a larger product (e.g., a
house) into which the former has been incorporated.” (Id., at p. 483.)
Here however, Davila fails to allege that Puente Hills Ford’s failure to repair
transmission issues caused damage to other subcomponents of the vehicle.
Accordingly,
Puente Hills Ford’s demurrer to Davila’s sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Ford Defendants’ demurrer to Davila’s Complaint is OVERRULED IN PART as
to the fifth cause of action and SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days
leave to amend as to the sixth cause of action.