  Case Number:  21STCV27304    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
BLANCA
  CALDERON,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
REGENTS
  OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, et al.
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV27304
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  07/26/21
Trial
  Date:  12/02/24
 




 

 


 
Hearing Date:             July
10, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
Regents of the University of California (erroneously sued as Regents of the
University of California DBA UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center and UCLA Health)
Responding Party:       Plaintiff
Blanca Calderon
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
The court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
The court DENIES Defendant’s motion for
protective order.
The court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions.
 
Background
On July 26, 2021,
plaintiff Blanca Calderon (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against defendant
Regents of the University of California (erroneously sued as Regents of the
University of California DBA UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center and UCLA Health) (“Defendant”),
alleging causes of action for (1) Disability Discrimination in Violation of
Government Code § 12940(a); (2) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate in Violation
of Government Code § 12945.2; (3) Failure to Provide Medical Leave in Violation
of Government Code § 12945.2; (4) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process
in Violation of Government Code § 12940(n); (5) Failure to Maintain a Workplace
Free from Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of Government Code §
12940(k); (6) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; and (7) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of FEHA.  The Complaint alleges
Plaintiff worked as a housekeeper at Defendant’s ULCA Santa Monica Medical
Center from 2007 to May 14, 2019. (Compl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff sustained an initial
workplace injury to her back on April 13, 2009, and she was referred to doctors
under Defendant’s workers’ compensation insurance. (Id. at ¶¶ 16.) When
Plaintiff attempted to return to work with restrictions, Defendant failed to
provide reasonable accommodations and this behavior continued after Plaintiff
returned from various durations of medical leave. (Id. at ¶¶ 17-20.) On
May 15, 2010, Plaintiff sustained a second workplace injury to her right thumb
and hand, and despite reporting the injury to her direct supervisor, she was
instructed to keep working. (Id. at ¶ 21.) After four days, Plaintiff
approached a different supervisor who referred her to a workers’ compensation
doctor, and this injury was also categorized as a permanent injury. (Ibid.)

By December 18,
2015, Plaintiff   received a final
orthopedic evaluation on both of her injuries, and it was determined that
Plaintiff’s physical condition had stabilized and her medical conditions were
permanent. (Id. at ¶ 23.) Thus, Plaintiff’s had several work
restrictions needing to be accommodated. (Ibid.) 
On December 13,
2019, defendant Michael E. Pfau (hereinafter, “Defendant”) filed this motion
for protective order. Plaintiff filed an opposition on January 29, 2020. No
reply was received. However, her supervisors did not make any good faith
attempts to accommodate Plaintiff’s work restrictions, and as a result,
Plaintiff was forced to perform her full duties. (Id. at ¶ 24.)
Plaintiff repeatedly complained of the lack of accommodations from December
2015 through March 2017. By never being accommodated for her injuries, they
worsened, and Plaintiff sought further treatment in March 2017 due to ongoing
back and shoulder pain. (Id. at ¶ 26.) Because of her injuries,
Plaintiff was placed on the most restrictive restrictions available, but
Defendant ignored Plaintiff’s request for reasonable accommodations. (Id.
at ¶ 27.) In January 2018, Plaintiff experienced pain in the same hand that had
been injured in 2010, and when she informed her direct supervisor of this
injury, no action was taken. (Id. at ¶ 28.) 
By June 15,
2018, Plaintiff sustained another workplace injury to her knee because of
Defendant’s refusal to provide reasonable accommodations. (Id. at ¶
29-30.) It is alleged that Defendant continued to fail to accommodate Plaintiff
for her work restrictions, and her knee and hand injuries worsened. (Id.
at ¶¶ 31-37.) Because of the worsening condition in her hand, Plaintiff had to
have surgery, and she was placed on medical leave from November 9, 2018 through
December 3, 2018. (Id. at ¶ 37.) Upon returning to work, Plaintiff
informed Defendant of her most recent work restrictions, but Defendant insisted
that Plaintiff return to full duties without any accommodations. (Id. at
¶ 38.) Because Plaintiff’s injuries were worsening, she was placed on medical
leave for three days in February 7, 2017 and released with work restrictions. (Id.
¶ 40.) Again, Defendants did not provide reasonable accommodations when
Plaintiff returned to work on February 10, 2019. (Id. at ¶ 41.) By March
6, 2019, Plaintiff’s restrictions were reverted back to permanent restrictions
for her knee injury. (Id. at ¶ 42.) On May 13, 2019, Defendant’s
terminated Plaintiff on the ground that they could no longer accommodate
Plaintiff’s restrictions as they were permanent, despite having been designated
as permanent since December 2015. (Id. at ¶ 43.)  
On May 20, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant motion for protective order in relation to
Plaintiff’s attempt to take the deposition of sixteen third party lay
witnesses. 
On June 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition to the instant motion. 
On July 2, 2024,
Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
            “Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (CCP
§ 2025.420(a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (CCP § 2025.420(b).) This
protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the
following directions set forth in CCP §§ 2025.420(b)(1)-(16). “Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (b), provides a nonexclusive list of
permissible directions that may be included in a protective order.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.)
            “If
the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court may
order that the deponent provide or permit the discovery against which
protection was sought on those terms and conditions that are just.” (CCP §
2025.420(g).) “ ‘[T]he issuance and formulation of protective orders are to a
large extent discretionary. [Citation.]’ ” (Nativi,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 316.) 
            “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (CCP § 2025.420(h).)
Furthermore, CCP
§2017.020(a) provides, as follows:  “The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this
determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other
affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” Also, under CCP § 2019.030(a)(1), the
court may restrict the frequency or extent of use of a discovery method if “[t]he
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable
from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less
expensive.”
 
Evidentiary
Objections
            Defendant objects to various
portions of the Declaration of Brennan S. Kahn, which was submitted in support
of Plaintiff’s opposition. These objections are overruled in their entirety. 
 
Discussion
            As a preliminary matter, the court finds that
Defendant has sufficiently met and conferred on the issue of the protective
order. (See Afshar Decl. ¶¶ 11-13, Exhs. G-I.) 
Merits
of the Motion
            Defendant
moves for a protective order pursuant to CCP §§ 2025.420, 2017.010, and
2019.030 to bar and limit Plaintiff from taking the depositions of additional
third-party lay witnesses. Defendant first contends that there is good cause to
issue the requested protective orders because, in past depositions of other lay
witnesses, Plaintiff’s counsel has improperly asked questions relating to legal
conclusions and that require the lay witnesses to interpret medical records and
opine on the performance of work duties under medical conditions. (Motion at
pp. 8-9.) Effectively, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is seeking the lay
witnesses to speculate based on various hypotheticals. (Id. at pp.
9-10.) 
Second,
Defendant contends that Plaintiff seeks duplicative testimony because, in the
previous eight depositions of lay witnesses, Plaintiff has nearly identical
questions that concerned her specific work restrictions, the accommodations
offered and provided, modified work duties, the work actual performed, and
hypotheticals relating to work restrictions. (Id. at pg. 11; Afshar
Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exh. C.) 
Defendant also
argues that it would suffer irreparable harm if the court declines to intervene
in this instance because the third-party witnesses will continue to be harassed
to answer questions that they lack personal knowledge about. (Id. at pg.
12.) 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the instant motion is deficient because
Defendant fails to argue why any specific witness should not be deposed or why
any specific question should not be asked. (Opposition at pg. 9.) Thus,
Plaintiff reasons that Defendant is improperly requesting the court to issue an
blanket prohibition without a specific factual basis. (Id., relying on Meritplan
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1981) 124 Cal. App. 3d 237, 241-242.)
Plaintiff contends that Defendant should not be allowed to arbitrarily limit
her ability to conduct necessary depositions or even to curtail certain line of
questionings without further information. (Id. at pg. 10.) Moreover,
Plaintiff argues that the witnesses that she intends to depose are relevant to
her claims because they were Plaintiff’s direct supervisors, direct co-workers,
executives over Plaintiff’s department, or personnel associated with
accommodation requests. (Id. at pp. 13-14.) 
            Plaintiff
further contends that she should be permitted to question the deponents without
restrictions because Defendant’s objections are premised on the lack of
relevance of the testimony elicited, but they can be later contested on
admissibility grounds. (Id. at pp. 14-15.)    
            In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s reliance on Mertiplan Insurance Co.
is misplaced because the protective order issued there did not establish
whether the depositions were harassing, duplicative or burdensome, and it did
not address any potentially proper questioning. (Mertiplan Insurance Co.,
supra, 124 Cal.App.3d at 241-242.) Defendant maintains that there is good
cause for the protective order on the ground that the line of improper
questioning amounts to harassment and annoyance and that the testimony that
Plaintiff seeks to elicit is duplicative of prior deposition testimony. (Reply
at pp. 6-8.)
             As an initial matter, the court is not
inclined to issue a broad sweeping order that bars the taking of further
third-party witness depositions.  After
all, the scope of discovery is broad. (Children’s Hosp. of Central CA v.
Blue Cross of CA (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1276.) While the court is
concerned that Plaintiff is repeatedly seeking to elicit testimony of legal
conclusions from third-party lay witnesses, the court does not find the
questioning generally complained of warrants the prohibition of those questions
from being asked when they could be within the proposed third-party witnesses’
personal knowledge. 
Primarily, the
court finds that Defendant has failed to show how allowing Plaintiff to proceed
with additional proposed third-party lay witness depositions would result in “unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (CCP §
2025.420(b).) The only irreparable harm that Defendant identifies is that the
third-party witnesses will be harassed and “made to feel uncomfortable.”
However, this is not persuasive because, if these third-party lay witnesses
lack personal knowledge to answer the questions that Plaintiff seeks to ask,
then they may merely testify in the negative. Additionally, considering that
Plaintiff has already deposed eight third-party lay witnesses, there is no
declaration from them to suggest that any of them felt harassed during their
depositions. 
Moreover, to the
extent that Defendant seeks to restrict the use of deposition because Plaintiff
is seeking duplicative information, the Court is not persuaded by this
information because Defendant has failed to show that the proposed third-party
lay witnesses lack the personal knowledge needed to answer Plaintiff’s
questions. 
The court
therefore DENIES Defendant’s motion for protective order. 
 
Requests
for Monetary Sanctions
            Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant in the total amount of $7,000
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.420(h) for unsuccessfully making the
instant motion. However, the Court does not find that Defendant acted without
substantial justification in moving for the requested protective order. As
stated above, one concern was Plaintiff’s repeated questions to lay witnesses
about legal conclusions, and another was that Plaintiff had already deposed
eight witnesses asking similar questions. Thus, it appeared to Defendant that
further depositions without court intervention would prove duplicative and
unnecessarily protracted. On this ground, Defendant acted with substantial
justification in moving for the requested protective order. 
            The
court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
July 10, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the 