  Case Number:  21STCV39039    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  57 


 
Firestone Plaza, LLC (“Firestone”) owns commercial property
located at 2701 Firestone Blvd. in South Gate, California (“the
Property”).   Firestone leased one of the
units on the Property, Unit F, to Paulina Martinez (“Martinez”).   Juan Rivera (“Juan) is the guarantor of
Martinez’s obligations under the lease for Unit F.  While Firestone’s lease to Martinez for Unit
F was in effect, Firestone leased Unit E on the Property to Paulina Martinez
DBA Dollar Boutique (“Dollar Boutique”). 
Samantha Rivera (“Samantha”) is listed as the guarantor of Dollar
Boutique’s obligations under the lease for Unit E. 
Firestone sued Martinez, Dollar Boutique, Dollar Boutique, Inc.
(“DBI”), Juan, and Samamtha for breach of the leases for Units F and E.   Firestone’s suit is based on allegations
that Martinez breached her obligation to pay rent under the lease for Unit F,
Dollar Boutique breached its obligation to pay rent for the lease under Unit E,
and that Juan and Samantha, as guarantors of the obligations of Martinez and
Dollar Boutique under the two leases, failed to step up and pay the rent for
the two units.  (Firestone subsequently dismissed
its claim against Samantha.)   Juan and
Samantha filed a Cross-Complaint against Martinez, Dollar Boutique and Firestone,
asserting claims for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and fraud as to Martinez
and Dollar Boutique, and negligence as to Firestone.  
Pending before the Court is the motion of Juan and Samantha for
leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”).  Their proposed FACC was submitted with the
motion.  The proposed FACC would add a
cause of action against Firestone for violation of the Resolution of the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles Further Amending and Restating the
County of Los Angeles COVID-19 Tenant Protections (“the Resolution”).  Juan contends that the Resolution prohibited Firestone
from enforcing against him the guaranty for rent for Unit F during the period in
which Firestone says Juan was on the hook for that rent.  Firestone opposes Juan and Samantha’s motion
for leave to file the FACC.  The Court is
granting the motion.   Juan and Samantha
are directed to serve and file what they submitted as the proposed FACC by April
30, 2024.
Section
473(a)(1) of the Code Civil Procedure provides that trial courts “may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading” to add new parties and new claims.  In a similar vein, Section 576 authorizes
courts, “at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance
of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, [to] allow the amendment of
any pleading.”  As they have been applied
through the years, Sections 473(a)(1) and 576 manifest “great liberality” in
allowing parties leave to amend their pleadings at any stage of a case.  (Board of Trustees v. Superior Court
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1163, citation omitted.)  Indeed, denial of a request for leave to
amend is rarely justified.  Absent unreasonable
delay by the party seeking leave to amend or demonstrable prejudice to the
other party, leave to amend is granted routinely.  (Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v.
City of Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 544-545.)  If there is no unreasonable delay by the
moving party or prejudice to the other party, leave to amend still can be
denied “where, in all probability, amendment would be futile,” (Foroudi v.
The Aerospace Corp. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 993, 1000-1001), such as when
“the facts are undisputed and as a substantive matter no liability exists under
the [moving party’s] new theory.”  (Huff
v. Wilkins (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 732, 746.)  That is a fairly high bar to clear because it
is difficult for a court in the context of briefing on a motion for leave to
deem the amendment futile.  As a result,
the “preferable practice” is to grant leave to amend and allow the viability of
the claim made through the amendment to be tested through other, more appropriate
channels.  (California Casualty Gen.
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (Gorgei) (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)
Firestone
contends in its opposition to the motion that it will be prejudiced if Juan and
Samantha are granted leave to file the FACC because the trial in this case is
due to begin in three weeks.  The problem
for Firestone is that the policy in favor of allowing leave to amend holds
force even when the proposed amendment comes on the eve of the start of the
trial.  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760-761 [trial court erred in denying motion for
leave to amend complaint that was heard three days before the scheduled start
date of the trial].  Firestone has not
shown that the proposed amendment at this juncture will stall the start of the
trial.
Firestone
also contends that Juan and Samantha’s motion for leave to file the FACC should
be denied because they unreasonably delayed in seeking leave to amend.  The Court disagrees.  Juan and Samantha filed their motion promptly
after the completion of Martinez’s deposition, which, based on the record
before the Court, shed light on the viability of a claim by Juan against
Firestone for violating the Resolution.  
Finally,
Firestone contends that Juan’s proposed, new claim against Firestone for
violating the Resolution is not viable and thus amending the Cross-Complaint to
add it would be futile.  This contention
misses the mark.  The Court cannot
conclude that the facts bearing on the claim under the Resolution are
undisputed in Firestone’s favor thereby making it highly unlikely that Juan will
prevail on the claim.  In its rulings
denying Firestone’s motion for summary judgment and Juan’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings, the Court has addressed the applicability to this action of
the Resolution’s protections for tenants that were put in place as a result of
the COVID-19 pandemic, and Juan’s standing to enforce the protections against
Firestone.  Those rulings do not render Juan’s
proposed claim against Firestone for violating the Resolution futile.  To the contrary, the rulings express the
Court’s view that it is unclear whether and to what extent the Resolution’s
COVID-19-generated protections apply in Juan’s favor.  Given that uncertainty, Juan should be
granted leave to pursue the claim.