..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV03707
Plaintiff's Name: Joseph Robert Giannini
Defendant's Name: Gold's Gym California, LLC
People-Names: Joseph Robert Giannini
Company-Names: Gold's Gym California, LLC, Gold's Gym Club, Holding, LLC, RSG GROUP USA INC.
Places: Venice
Dates: March 18, 2024, March 2023, 20-31318-hdh11
Events: Motion for Preliminary Injunction, Request for Judicial Notice
Money: $29 per month, $900 per year, $100 per month, $278,262
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to enjoin Defendants from denying him entry to the Venice Gym at the contract rate of $29 per month
Facts: Plaintiff entered into a gym contract at $29 per month, but Defendants refused to honor it and required him to pay higher dues; Plaintiff moves to enjoin Defendants from denying him entry to the Venice Gym at the contract rate of $29 per month
Disputes: Amount of Plaintiff's monthly dues
Acts: Defendant Gold's Gym California, LLC opposes the motion; Plaintiff replies
Agreements: Plaintiff's gym contract
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure section 527, subdivision (a), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 526, subd. (a), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 452, subds. (c)-(d)
Case Citations: Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp., ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton, Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green, Husain v. McDonald's Corp., Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of Cal., Department of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist., Korean Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery, Maria P. v. Riles, Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors Corp.
Statutes: None specified
Roles: Judge Michael E. Whitaker, Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini, Defendant Gold's Gym California, LLC
Significant Statements:
1. The Court declines to take judicial notice of the requested documents.
2. The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial.
3. The Court denies Plaintiff's Motion for Preliminary Injunction because Plaintiff has not established immediate, irreparable, nonpecuniary harm.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The Judge's tentative ruling denies the Plaintiff's motion for a preliminary injunction, which seeks to enjoin the Defendants from denying him entry to the Venice Gym at the contract rate of $29 per month. The Plaintiff had entered into a gym contract at this rate, but the Defendants refused to honor it and required him to pay higher dues. The Judge finds that the Plaintiff has not established immediate, irreparable, nonpecuniary harm, as he is still able to access the unique gym equipment at the Venice location, but is simply being required to pay higher dues. The Judge also declines to take judicial notice of five documents related to the sale of assets and liabilities of the Gold's Gym entities.
