

 
Petitioner,
Children’s Health Defense – California Chapter, moves for an order awarding it
attorneys’ fees and costs. Respondent, Los Angeles Unified School District
(LAUSD), opposes the motion.[1]

 
The
motion is DENIED. 
 
STATEMENT
OF THE CASE
 
On
October 13, 2021, Petitioner and Protection of the Educational Rights of Kids
(P.E.R.K) filed their Verified Petition for Writs of Traditional and
Administrative Mandate and Request for Immediate Stay (Original Petition).
Through the Original Petition, Petitioner sought an order requiring Respondent
to vacate and set aside its resolution generally requiring all students to
obtain a COVID-19 vaccine (the Resolution) to attend in-person classes.
 
On
October 29, 2021, Petitioner sought a temporary restraining order and an order
to show cause hearing for a preliminary injunction precluding Respondent from
enforcing the Resolution until the court decided its Original Petition.
Petitioner noted the Resolution “took effect immediately, but included tiered
compliance deadlines, including the first ‘full vaccination’ deadline of
October 31, 2021.” (Ex Parte Application Notice 2:17-18.) The court denied
Petitioner’s request and directed Petitioner to file a notice motion for a
preliminary injunction. (Minute Order 10-29-21 p. 3.)
 
On
November 8, 2021, Petitioner filed its motion for a preliminary injunction.
Through the motion, Petitioner sought to enjoin Respondent from enforcing the
Resolution pending a hearing on its Original Petition. The court set
Petitioner’s motion for hearing on December 8, 2021.
 
On
November 8, 2021, Petitioner filed its ex parte application seeking to advance
the hearing date on its motion for a preliminary injunction. Petitioner
explained the “next deadline for vaccination for all LAUSD students 12 and
older . . . is November 19, 2021” making it “imperative that [the preliminary
injunction] hearing . . . precedes that date.” (Ex Parte Application 4:11-12.)
 
The
court denied Petitioner’s ex parte application on November 10, 2021. (Minute
Order 10-10-21.)
 
After
hearing argument on Petitioner’s motion for a preliminary injunction on
December 8, 2021, the court issued its order denying Petitioner’s request on
December 13, 2021. Petitioner did not appeal the court’s order. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 904.1, subd. (a)(6).)
 
Seven
months later, on July 5, 2022, in a related case, G.F. v. Los Angeles
Unified School District, Case No. 21STCP03381, this court issued an order
finding LAUSD exceeded its authority when it passed the Resolution because the
Resolution was preempted by state law. Accordingly, the court enjoined
Respondent from enforcing the Resolution as to any student within LAUSD.
 
After
the court sustained demurrers and granted a motion to dismiss brought by
Respondent, Petitioner indicated it would no longer pursue any substantive
relief from Respondent.[2]
(Minute Order May 10, 2023.) 
 
Petitioner
now seeks an award of attorneys’ fees and costs from Respondent pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 (Section 1021.5).
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Section
1021.5 authorizes an award of attorney’s fees in “public interest” litigation.
Section 1021.5 provides in relevant part:
 
Upon motion,
a court may award attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or more
opposing parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or
a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement         . . . are such as to
make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of
justice be paid out of the recovery, if any. 
 
An award of attorney fees is appropriate “to a successful party . . . in
any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest.” (§ 1021.5.) The basic objective of the
“private attorney general” doctrine “is to encourage suits enforcing important
public policies by providing substantial attorney fees to successful litigants
in such cases.” (Maria P. v. Riles (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1281,
1289; Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 553,
565.)  “When it comes to section 1021.5,
the successful party is ‘the party to litigation that achieves its objectives.’
” (La Mirada Avenue Neighborhood Assn. of Hollywood v. City of Los
Angeles (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1149, 1157.) The “critical fact is the impact
of the action, not the manner of its resolution.” (Hogar Dulce Hogar v.
Community Development Com. of City of Escondido (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
1358, 1365.)  
 
The
statute awards successful public interest litigants with attorney’s fees where
the statutory requirements are established. (Vasquez v. State of
California (2008) 45 Cal.4th 243, 250-251.) The
three factors necessary to support an award of attorney fees to a successful
party pursuant to Section 1021.5 are: “(1) [the] action ‘has resulted in the
enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest,’ (2) a
significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary has been conferred on
the general public or a large class of persons and (3) the necessity and
financial burden of private enforcement are such as to make the award
appropriate.” (In re Conservatorship of Whitley (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1206,
1214.)   
 
The
burden is on the fee claimant to establish each statutory requirement. (Save
Open Space Santa Monica Mountains v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2000)
84 Cal.App.4th 235, 246.)
 
Alternative Standard – Catalyst Theory 
 
“The
‘catalyst theory’ permits an award of attorney fees even when the litigation
does not result in a judicial resolution if the defendant changes its behavior
substantially because of, and in the manner sought by, the litigation.
[Citation.] To obtain attorney fees under this theory, a plaintiff must
establish that (1) the lawsuit was a catalyst motivating the defendants to
provide the primary relief sought; (2) the lawsuit had merit and achieved its
catalytic effect by threat of victory, not by dint of nuisance and threat of
expense; and (3) the plaintiff[] reasonably attempted to settle the litigation
prior to filing the lawsuit.” (California
Public Records Research, Inc. v. County of Yolo (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 150,
191 [CPRR].)
 
“It is not
necessary for a plaintiff to achieve a favorable final judgment to qualify for
attorneys’ fees so long as the plaintiff’s actions were the catalyst for the
defendant’s actions, but there must be some relief to which the plaintiff’s
actions are causally connected.” (Coalition
for a Sustainable Future in Yucaipa v. City of Yucaipa (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 513, 521.) “At the
very least, a plaintiff must establish the precise factual/legal condition that
it sought to change or affect as a prerequisite for establishing the catalytic
effect of its lawsuit.” (Ibid.) “To satisfy the causation prong of the catalyst
theory, the plaintiff need not show that litigation was the only cause of
the defendant's acquiescence, only that it was a substantial factor
contributing to defendant's action.” (Id. at 522.) 
 
“Thus, when a
plaintiff seeks fees under a catalyst theory, courts generally must conduct the
following inquiry: (1) identify the plaintiff's primary litigation objectives,
(2) compare the results obtained to determine whether the plaintiff in fact
achieved those objectives, and, if so, 
(3) decide
whether the lawsuit was a material factor or contributed in a significant way
to those results. . . .” (Department of Water Resources Environmental Impact
Cases (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 556, 572-573.) 

 
“[T]he
question of whether plaintiffs’ action is causally linked to the achievement of
the relief obtained is one of fact.” (Wallace v. Consumers Coop. of
Berkeley, Inc. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 836, 845; accord Grimsley v. Board
of Supervisors (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 960, 969.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Was Petitioner a Successful Party in this Litigation?
 
Petitioner
must have been a “successful party” in this litigation to obtain an attorneys’
fee award under Section 1021.5. 
 
Petitioner
did not prevail in this matter by virtue of a court ruling or judgment.
Nonetheless,
Petitioner
contends it was “in effect a ‘successful party’ on the merits of its claim with
respect to the illegal [Resolution] and a major catalyst in both: (1) delaying
enforcement of the [Resolution] twice, and (2) ultimately getting a favorable
ruling by this court to void the [Resolution] entirely.” (Memo 1:10-13.)
Petitioner asserts it is entitled under Section 1021.5 to an attorneys’ fees
and costs award of $130,733.75. 
 
Petitioner
argues it was the successful party in this litigation “because it has prevailed
on the main issue of the initial lawsuit: to prevent enforcement of and to
strike down Respondents’ illegal [Resolution].” (Memo 8:9-10.) Petitioner
reports its “steady and persistent actions achieved [its] desired result.”
(Memo 8:13.) Petitioner acknowledges the court’s order in G.F. v. Los
Angeles Unified School District—not this case—resulted in Petitioner
achieving the result it desired in this litigation.[3]
(Memo 1:9-10, 8:15-17.)
 
The
court acknowledges an “attorney fee award may be justified even when
plaintiff’s legal action does not result in a favorable final judgment.” (Maria
P. v. Riles, supra, 43 Cal.3d at 1290-1291.) Nonetheless, to “justify a fee
award, there must be a causal connection between the lawsuit and the relief
obtained.” (Westside Community for Independent Living, Inc. v. Obledo (1983)
33 Cal.3d 348, 353.) A petitioner’s legal action must be “a ‘material’ factor
or have ‘contributed in a significant way’ to the results achieved.” (Ibid.)

 
“In
general, it is the task of the trial court to ‘realistically assess the
litigation and determine, from a practical perspective, whether or not the
action served to vindicate an important right so as to justify an attorney fee
award under a private attorney general theory.” (Woodland Hills Residents
Assn., Inc. v. City Council (1979) 23 Cal.3d 917, 938.) “The appropriate
benchmarks in determining which party prevailed are (a) the situation
immediately prior to the commencement of suit, and (b) the situation today, and
the role, if any, played by the litigation in effecting any changes between the
two.” (Folsom v. Butte County Assn. of Governments (1982) 32 Cal.3d 668,
685 n. 31.)
 
Respondent
disputes Petitioner’s claimed status as the successful party in this action
because Petitioner lost, entirely or to a significant degree, every hearing
conducted by the court—that is, Petitioner never obtained any relief from this
court. The court agrees. 
 
Petitioner
did not prevail on a single issue in this litigation. Petitioner unsuccessfully
sought a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause hearing immediately
after it filed this proceeding; the court directed Petitioner to file a noticed
motion after finding no urgency. Petitioner thereafter unsuccessfully sought an
order advancing the hearing date on its noticed motion for a preliminary
injunction. Petitioner then lost its bid to obtain a preliminary injunction
pending a hearing on the Original Petition. Respondent successfully twice demurred
to the various iterations of the Original Petition. Other than obtaining leave
to amend to amend its allegations at the conclusion of demurrer hearings or Respondent’s
initial motion to dismiss, the court cannot find Petitioner had any actual success
in this litigation.
 
Using
“[t]he appropriate benchmarks” as a guide to a realistic assessment of the
litigation from a practical perspective, the court finds Petitioner’s lawsuit did
not result in the enforcement of any important right—the lawsuit simply had no
effect on Respondent. That is, the circumstances today would be identical if
Petitioner had never initiated this litigation.[4]
It is true the Resolution that existed prior to Petitioner’s litigation may not
be enforced as preempted by state law. However, Petitioner had no role in
bringing about that result—the result would have occurred without regard to any
efforts by Petitioner. There is no causal connection between the invalidation
of the Resolution and Petitioner’s lawsuit. Petitioner cannot be a successful
party where Petitioner obtained absolutely no relief connected in some way to
the proceedings.
 
Given
that Petitioner’s litigation did not result in a favorable court ruling or
judgment,
Petitioner
relies on the catalyst theory to prove it was a “successful party” in this
litigation within the meaning of Section 1021.5. Petitioner relies on the
following argument and evidence to demonstrate it is entitled to an award of
Section 1021.5 attorneys’ fees:
 
Here, prior
to the lawsuit, Petitioners warned Respondents not to enact and, once enacted,
to withdraw or rescind their illegal [Resolution] or face legal action.
(Pearson Decl., ¶4). Respondents refused and proceeded to forcibly remove
children from in-person extracurricular activities and other in-person services
and exclude or threaten to exclude them from District properties and force tens
of thousands of them into independent study in disregard of the asserted
statutory and constitutional rights of its students. (Ibid.) After Petitioners’
lawsuit was filed, Petitioners moved this Court for temporary emergency relief
to delay enforcement of the [Resolution] providing over one hundred
declarations in support from impacted LAUSD students and/or their families,
along with expert declarations on the harms of independent study and the lack
of long term studies on the injections. Following providing this evidence of
actual harms to LAUSD students, Respondents elected to hold special meetings to
vote to delay enforcement of the [Resolution] as requested by Petitioners, not
once but twice and, ultimately voted on May 10, 2022 not to enforce the [Resolution]
and to, instead, wait to “align with the state,” meaning wait for the
California Legislature and/or [the California Department of Public Health] to
go through the proper channels to potentially mandate the COVID-19 injections
for California schoolchildren as argued in the Petition. (Id., ¶15.) Clearly
Petitioners’ actions had an effect on Respondents’ behavior as they provided
the relief sought in Petitioners’ ex parte application to stay enforcement of
the [Resolution], within two days following Petitioners’ hearing and request
for this relief. 
 
Following
Respondents’ second vote to delay enforcement of the [Resolution] on May 10th,
2022, Petitioners sent a letter to Respondents’ counsel demanding that
Respondents also cease excluding noncomplying students from extracurricular
activities. One day later, Respondent LAUSD announced that it would now allow
previously excluded students to re-join extracurricular activities in light of
the delayed enforcement of the [Resolution]. (Memo 9:23-10:17.) 
 
Petitioner
argues its efforts “before any ruling in favor of G.F.” resulted in
Respondent voting not to enforce the Resolution and “the ‘inference’ and
logical conclusion that Petitioner[’s] actions influenced Respondent’s
actions.” (Memo 10:26-11:1.)[5]
 
First,
Respondent’s decision to delay and amend its Resolution in December 2021
followed the court’s decision denying Petitioner’s request for a preliminary
injunction. The court heard Petitioner’s motion on December 8, 2021. In advance
of that hearing, the court issued a written tentative decision denying
Petitioner’s request. At the conclusion of the hearing, the court took the
matter under submission. On December 13, 2021, the court issued its order
denying Petitioner’s request for a preliminary injunction. 
 
On
December 14, 2021, Respondent voted to delay enforcement of the Resolution.
That Respondent’s decision followed a tentative and final decision denying
Petitioner’s request for a preliminary injunction undermines any inference
Respondent acted to delay enforcement of the Resolution based on Petitioner’s
efforts in this proceeding. That is, it is difficult to imagine why Respondent
would take any actions when Petitioner had been unsuccessful in obtaining any
provisional relief and a trial setting conference was not scheduled for another
six weeks. 
 
On
May 10, 2022, Respondent again elected to delay implementation of the
Resolution. Respondent did so after the court sustained Respondent’s demurrer
to Petitioner’s amended petition in part two weeks earlier on April 25, 2022.
Respondent’s delay decision also followed the writ trial in G.F. v. Los
Angeles Unified School District on April 6, 2022 when the court issued a
tentative written decision denying relief to the petitioner but took the matter
under submission.
 
The
court is not persuaded Petitioner’s litigation (or any order made by the court
in this proceeding) in any way contributed to Respondent’s decision to delay
implementation of the Resolution. The evidence before the court does not
support such a finding. Further, the court notes Respondent never voluntarily
set aside its Resolution. Instead, Respondent set aside the Resolution only
after this court issued its order finding the Resolution invalid in July 2022
after the trial in the related case.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the court finds Petitioner was not the successful party in
this proceeding. Petitioner has not met its burden of demonstrating a causal
connection between this proceeding and any changes by Respondent. As Petitioner
was not a successful party, it is not entitled to an award of attorneys’ fees
pursuant to Section 1021.5.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
 
January
10, 2024                                                                  ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 


