

 
Petitioner, Los Angeles County Professional Peace Officers
Association, and Respondent, County of Los Angeles, entered into a Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) regarding custody assistants/correction officers on
February 19, 2019. (Pet., Ex. B, p. 2.) At issue in this proceeding is the
interpretation of Article 16 of the MOU entitled “Employee Rights in the Event
of Transfer of Functions.” (Pet., Ex. B, p. 52.) Petitioner contends Respondent,
Los Angeles County Employee Relations Commission (ERCOM), erred when it found
the County did not violate Government Code section 3505 when it did not meet
and confer over its decision to “contract out to a private company security
work previously performed by Security Officers at the Kenneth Hahn Hall of Administration.”
(Opening Brief 1:4-5.) Through its petition, Petitioner seeks a number of
orders including “a writ of mandate commanding the County to return to the status
quo ante” and meet and confer with Petitioner “prior to making a decision
to contract out to a private security company work previously performed by Security
Officers at the Kenneth Hahn Hall of Administration.” (Pet., Prayer p. 10.)
 
The County opposes the petition. 
 
The petition is granted/denied.
 
STATEMENT
OF THE CASE
 
Relevant Background:
 
While the MOU was in effect,[1]
in May 2021, Petitioner learned the County intended to contract out to a private
company security work being performed by employees in Bargaining Unit 621.
(Hayes Decl., Ex. H, p. 1.)
 
On May 18, 2021, Petitioner submitted a request to the County to
meet and confer over the decision to contract the work out to a private company
and the effects of that decision. (Hayes Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
On May 25, 2021, the County responded and agreed to negotiate with
Petitioner regarding the effects of the decision but not the decision itself.
The County explained Article 16 of the MOU constituted a waiver of Petitioner’s
statutory right to meet and confer over the decision to contract out work of a represented
bargaining unit. (Hayes Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Petitioner then filed an unfair labor practice charge with ERCOM.
(Hayes Decl., ¶ 6.) Ultimately, after a hearing, ERCOM dismissed Petitioner’s
charges.[2]
ERCOM noted:
 
.
. . the only question truly before us is whether [Petitioner] granted a “clear
and unmistakable waiver” of its right to insist upon decision bargaining. On
the record before us, we find the answer to be yes. (Hayes Decl., Ex. H, p. 4.)
 
Petitioner contends ERCOM erred when it found Petitioner made a
clear and unmistakable waiver of its right to require decision bargaining.
 
STANDARD
OF REVIEW
 
Petitioner seeks relief under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1085 and 1094.5.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1085,
subdivision (a) provides in relevant part:
 
A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.
 
There are two essential requirements to
the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085: (1) a clear, present and ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of 
Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is
proper where . . . the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required by
law.” (Id. at 705.)  
 
A petitioner “bears the burden of proof
in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.” (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review of an administrative decision
are: whether the respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there
was a fair trial, and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An
abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)  
 
Here, whether relief is appropriate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 or 1094.5, the ultimate issue is a
legal one subject to the court’s independent judgment:
 
Because memorandums of understanding are binding
agreements between local agencies and designated employee representatives, when
the meaning of a memorandum of understanding is in dispute we apply de novo
review, exercising our independent judgment. It is a judicial function to
interpret a contract or written document unless the interpretation turns upon
the credibility of extrinsic evidence. (County of Fresno v. Fresno Deputy
Sheriff’s Assn. (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 282, 288 [cleaned up].)
 
ANALYSIS
 
First, Petitioner contends the County was
obligated to meet and confer in good faith with it prior to making the decision
to contract-out bargaining unit work. (Gov. Code, § 3505.) Petitioner notes (1)
the work had been previously performed by security officers at
the Kenneth Hahn Hall of Administration; (2) contracting out bargaining unit
work is within the scope of Petitioner’s representation; and (3) the County
took action without giving Petitioner, the exclusive representative of the
bargaining unit, notice or opportunity to bargain over the decision. (Opening
Brief 6:11-18.) Petitioner also contends the change has a generalized effect or
continuing impact on terms and conditions of employment by reducing the number
of employees in the bargaining unit and diluting their bargaining power. (Opening
Brief 6:19-21.)
 
Second, Petitioner argues the MOU does not contain clear and
unmistakable language whereby Petitioner waived its right to meet and confer
where bargaining unit work is contracted out to a third party.[3]
Petitioner further asserts any alleged inference that a waiver to bargain over “reorganization”
includes a waiver of the right to bargain over contracting out to a third party
is contrary to public policy. (Opening Brief 2:13-14; Building Material
& Construction  Teamsters’ Union v.
Farrell (1986) 41 Cal.3d 651, 660.) Moreover, Petitioner asserts the County
is unable to cite a single case wherein the language waiving the right to meet
and confer over contracting out bargaining unit work did not contain the words
“contracting out” when setting forth the waiver. (Opening Brief 12:6-8.) Petitioner
also contends the term “reorganization” is not synonymous with the concept of
“contracting out.” (Memo. 13:2-3.)
 
The MOU provides in relevant part:
 
ARTICLE
16       EMPLOYEE
RIGHTS IN THE EVENT OF TRANSFER OF
                             FUNCTIONS
 
In the event the County enters into any agreement
with another public employer or private entity which involves the transfer of
functions now being performed by employees in this representation Unit or the
law provides for the transfer of functions now being performed by employees in
this Unit to another public or private agency, the County will advise such
public or private entity of the existence and terms of this Memorandum of
Understanding and will immediate advise PPOA of such agreement or law. In addition
the County will consult with the employer absorbing a County function to
encourage utilization of affected employees by the new employer. When the
Department’s Request for Proposal is approved by the Chief Executive Officer,
the Labor Relations Office will arrange to meet with representatives of PPOA to
advise them of this action within five (5) days.
 
When advance knowledge of the impact of pending
changes in function, organization, or operations is available which will result
in the abolishment of positions or when there is a major reassignment of
functions from one department to another or to another agency, Manager will
make an intensive effort to reassign or transfer affected employees to other
positions for which they qualify, or train affected employees for new positions
in order to retain their services.
 
It is understood and agreed that Management shall
have no obligation to negotiate the decision of any reorganization by the
County during the life of this agreement. (Pet., Ex. B, p. 52 [emphasis added].)
 
The County contends Petitioner expressly
waived its statutory decision bargaining rights in the MOU. It argues the plain
language of Article 16 supports ERCOM’s finding of waiver. (Opposition 14:24-15:3.)
According to the County, “the MOU could not be any clearer.” (Opposition
14:7-8.) Based on the allegedly clear language of Article 16, the County contends
it had no actual duty to meet and confer in good faith prior to contracting out
the security officer work. (Opposition 13:21-24.)
 
“An employer may lawfully take unilateral
action on a matter within the scope of representation if it can establish as an
affirmative defense that an MOU clearly and unambiguously shows the Union
waived its right to negotiate over changes to an employment term. [Citations.] ‘Public
policy disfavors finding a waiver based on inference and places the burden of
proof on the party asserting the waiver.’ [Citation.] ‘[N]ot only must waiver
be clearly established, but any doubts must be resolved against the party
asserting waiver.’ [Citation.]” (Teamsters
Local 856 v. County of Merced (2020)
PERB Decision No. 2740-M.)[4]
 
The entire controversy here turns on the
meaning of “reorganization” as the term is used in the last sentence of Article
16. 
 
As the court understands it, Petitioner
contends the term “reorganization” is ambiguous—that is, “the term ‘reorganization’
is not synonymous with the concept of ‘contracting out.’ ” (Opening Brief
13:3-4.) Petitioner argues the nothing before the court, including dictionary
definitions suggests the term “reorganization” equates to “contracting out
bargaining unit work.” (Reply 4:24-26, 5:2-3.) According to Petitioner, a clear
and unmistakable waiver does not require “mental gymnastics” (Reply 9:3) and here
should state something akin to “Management shall have no obligation to
negotiate either the decision or effect of contracting-out bargaining unit work.”
(Reply 6:20-21.)
 
Petitioner poses a hypothetical
illustrating its belief “reorganization” is limited to the change within an “existing
organizational structure” or a rearrangement of existing employees. (Opening
Brief 13:10-19.) While Petitioner’s hypothetical may demonstrate a reasonable
interpretation of the term, Petitioner’s hypothetical is unsupported by any
authority, including any citation to an ordinary dictionary definition. While Petitioner
notes ERCOM did not have a unanimous opinion about whether the MOU reflected a
clear and unmistakable waiver, the evidence does not support that position. (Reply
9:14-20; Hayes Decl., Exh. H.)
 
The County relies on County of Fresno v. Fresno Deputy
Sheriff’s Ass’n (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 282 (County of Fresno), a dictionary definition and various rules and
tools of interpretation to support its position. The County’s suggestion County of Fresno presents a factual scenario of “exactly what
happened here” is unpersuasive. In County
of Fresno, the memorandum of understanding
contained a provision reserving for the county all “rights, powers, functions,
and authorities except as expressly abridged by [the memorandum of
understanding] . . . .” (Id.
at 293.) The memorandum of
understanding expressly reserved to the county the right to “relieve its
employees from duty or reassign employees because of lack of work or for other
reasons the [c]ounty considers legitimate; . . . .” (Ibid.) Such language constituted a clear and unmistakable
waiver of the “right to renegotiate the grounds on which the county was
permitted to reassign its employees, and the procedures for doing so, during
the term of the” memorandum of understanding. (Id. at 298.)
 
As noted by the County, the dictionary
definition of the word reorganization is “the act or process of reorganizing : the
state of being reorganized especially
: the financial reconstruction of a
business concern.” (Reorganization,
Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/Dictionary/reorganization
(January 9, 2024).) “Reorganize” means “to organize again or anew.” (Id. at reorganize.) The word “organize” has multiple definitions, including
“to arrange by systematic planning and united effort”, “to set up an
administrative structure for”, and “to arrange elements into a whole of interdependent
parts.” (Id. at organize.)
 
Using an ordinary dictionary definition,
the County asserts “ ‘Reorganization’ thus refers to ‘rearranging’ the staffing
of job functions.” (Opposition 15:1.) The County therefore concludes “[t]ransferring
out security officer jobs at the Hall of Administration is exactly that:
rearranging the staffing of security officer jobs.” (Opposition 15:2-3.)
 
The County also notes Article 16 is entitled
“Employee Rights In The Event of Transfer of Functions.” The County asserts “reorganization”
necessarily refers to the transfer of functions in the title of Article 16.
(Resp. 15:6-8.) The County contends the waiver sentence including the word
“reorganization” refers and applies to the preceding paragraphs and the
“transfer of functions” held by Petitioner-represented employees to private
agencies discussed therein because the waiver provision is set apart as its own
paragraph at the end of Article 16. (Opposition 15:19-22.) The waiver sentence,
as the final paragraph of Article 16, applies to all of Article 16. 
 
Finally, the County argues Petitioner fails
to explain how or why the term “reorganization” would not include “the transfer
of functions now being performed by employees in this representation unit.” (Opposition
16:8-9.) The County notes the cases relied upon by Petitioner do not support
its position because they (1) did not interpret the word “reorganization”
within a section on employee rights after a “transfer of functions;” (2) do not
involve a waiver clause; or (3) support the language of Article 16 of the MOU.
(Opposition 17:17-21; 18:3-14.) 
 
The MOU is a contract and therefore
subject to the general rules of contract interpretation. (County of Fresno, supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at 292.) “The goal of contract
interpretation is to effectuate the mutual intent of the parties as it existed
at the time of contracting insofar as it is ascertainable and lawful.” (Id.) “Such intent is to be inferred, if possible,
solely from the written provisions of the contract. The clear and explicit
meaning of these provisions, interpreted in their ordinary and popular sense,
unless used by the parties in a technical sense or a special meaning is given
to them by usage, controls judicial interpretation. Thus, if the meaning a
layperson would ascribe to contract language is not ambiguous, we apply that
meaning.’” (Id.
[Cleaned up.])
 
At
argument, the court requests the parties address the meaning and purpose of the
final sentence of the first paragraph of Article 16.
 
Based
on the written arguments of the parties, the court is inclined to agree with
the County. As noted, the dispute here centers on the meaning of the word “reorganization”
in the context of Article 16. Petitioner does not analyze the use of the word
in context and merely argues reorganizing work does not mean contracting out
work to a private entity.
 
The
ordinary definition of reorganize is not as limited as suggested by Petitioner.
Nothing offered by Petitioner—other than an argument—suggests reorganization as
used in Article 16 is wholly internal to the County.
 
That
reorganize may refer to something other than a wholly internal restructuring is
contextually supported. Article 16 is three short paragraphs addressing the rights
of employees “in the event of transfer of functions.” Article 16 addresses the County’s
authority to contract with a private entity to provide “functions now being
performed by employees in this representation Unit.” It discusses the “absorb[tion
of] a County function” and using represented employees “by the new employer.” (Pet.,
Ex. B, p. 52.)
 
Article
16 also addresses “abolishment of positions” and “major reassignment of
functions . . . to another agency.” Where a represented employee’s position is
being reassigned or abolished, the County will make efforts to retain that
employee’s services. (Pet., Ex. B, p. 52.)
 
Article
16 addresses a single subject—the transfer, restructuring and termination of
work performed by represented employees. Article 16’s focus is on the transfer
of represented employees’ work to public or private entities, that entity’s absorption
of County functions, abolishment of positions, and employee retraining in an
effort to retain the services of represented employees. Article 16 expressly
contemplates the transfer of represented employees’ functions to private
entities.
 
After
setting forth the County’s rights and duties in that context, Article 16
concludes with a single sentence expressing the parties’ agreement the County
has no obligation to “negotiate the decision of any reorganization by the County
during the life of the agreement.” (Pet., Ex. B, p. 52.) The waiver sentence
modifies the two paragraphs it follows. The MOU reasonably uses the work “reorganization”
to collectively refer to all of those actions the County may take and is
obligated to take “in the event of transfer of functions.” (Pet., Ex. B, p. 52.)
Collectively referring to the actions discussed in the first and second paragraphs
of Article 16 is well within the ordinary dictionary definition of reorganize.
 
Finally,
there is no reasonable alternative explanation for what the parties intended
through the final sentence of Article 16 if the word “reorganization” is not an
express waiver of decision bargaining as found by ERCOM.[5]
If “reorganization” is somehow limited to internal restructuring, as apparently
claimed by Petitioner, the MOU does not define the scope of “reorganization”—that
is, whether “reorganization” is limited to particular departments, the County
as a whole or the transfer of employee functions to other public entities.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the petition is GRANTED/DENIED.   
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
January 10, 2024                                                                    
 
________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 


