 Case Number:  23STCV21150    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VIRGINIA
  DIAZ, et al., 
  
         vs.
 
FORD
  MOTOR COMPANY, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV21150
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 2, 2024



 
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion for a protective order regarding Plaintiffs Virginia Diaz’s
and Juan Diaz’s Requests for Production of Documents is granted in part and
denied in part.
 
          Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) (“Moving Defendant”) moves for a protective order regarding
Plaintiffs Virginia Diaz’s (“Virginia”) and Juan Diaz’s (“Juan”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) Requests for Production of Documents (“RFP”) in this matter.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §2031.060.)  
 
          Background
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their original
complaint.  On February 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their first amended
complaint (“FAC”) against Moving Defendant and Non-moving Defendant Bob
Wondries Motors dba Bob Wondries Ford (“Bob Wondries”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging three causes of action: (1) violation of Song-Beverly
Act- breach of express warranty; (2) fraudulent inducement- concealment; and
(3) negligent repair.  (See FAC.)
On July 17, 2024, this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the
2nd cause of action without leave to amend. 
(See 7/17/24 Minute Order.)
On June 28, 2024, Moving Defendant filed the instant motion. 
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on September 18, 2024.  Moving Defendant filed its reply on September
24, 2024.
Plaintiffs’ objection to Moving Defendant’s motion as untimely is
not well taken.
C.C.P. §2031.060(a)
states that a party may “promptly” move for a protective order.  The statute provides no specific window when
such a motion may be brought. Moreover, contrary to Plaintiffs’ assertion, none
of the statutes which authorize protective orders require that a motion be made
before the expiration of the time required for a response.  (C.C.P. §§2030.090(a), 2031.060(a),
2025.420(a).)  Moreover, Plaintiffs’
citation to Willis v. Superior Court is not on point, as the footnote
cited discusses the time to object to discovery requests on the basis of
privacy interests, not the proper timing to seek a protective order regarding
the handling of confidential information.  (Willis v. Superior Court (1980) 112
Cal.App.3d 277, 289 n.5.)  Plaintiffs
contend that the motion is not timely because Plaintiffs served discovery
requests on Moving Defendant in January 2024.  (Opposition, pg. 3.)  Plaintiffs contends that Moving Defendant was
dilatory in seeking this protective order by failing to bring the motion until months
later.  The Court is not persuaded that Moving
Defendant’s motion should be denied on this basis where the statute imposes no
clear deadline and Plaintiffs have made no showing of prejudice by the delay. 
 
Meet
and Confer
          C.C.P. §2031.060 provides, in part:
When an inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically
stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been
directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a
protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.
 
(C.C.P.
§2031.060(a), emphasis added.)
Moving
Defendant’s counsel declares that on May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs sent Moving
Defendant a meet and confer letter asking Moving Defendant to clarify the need
for a protective order, to meet and confer on various RFPs, and requested Moving
Defendant to send a Proposed Protective Order.  (Decl. of Moawadn ¶6, Exh. C.)   Moving
Defendant’s counsel declares that on May 29, 2024, it sent a substantive
response to Plaintiffs’ meet and confer letter and explained that Ford’s
reasonable revisions to three paragraphs of the LASC Model do not limit
Plaintiffs’ use of documents and information that are subject to the order for
their own preparation and prosecution of the instant case.  (Decl. of Moawad ¶6, Exh. D.)  The Court finds Moving Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration states facts showing a “reasonable and good faith
attempt” to resolve the matter outside of court.  (C.C.P. §§2016.040, 2031.060(a).)  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant motion.
 
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §2031.060(b) provides that “[t]he court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other
person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.”  (C.C.P.
§2031.060(b).)
The decision upon whether to enter a protective order lies within
the sound discretion of the court.  (Raymond
Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 584, 588, 591; Meritplan Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1981)
124 Cal.App.3d 237, 242.)  Moving parties have the burden to show good
cause for protective order.  (Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997)
16 Cal.4th 1101, 1110.)   
 
          Discussion
Moving Defendant’s motion for
protective order is granted in part.  Moving
Defendant requests this Court impose a protective order regarding the use and
disclosure of select documents which, according to Moving Defendant, contain
sensitive, confidential information and trade secrets.  During the course of discovery proceedings, Moving
Defendant agreed to produce its Warranty Policy & Procedure Manual,
Customer Relationship Center Policies and Procedures, and Reacquired Vehicle
(“RAV”) Policy and Procedures.  (Decl. of
Moawad ¶¶2.1-2.3.)  Moving Defendant
contends that these materials contain confidential, proprietary, or trade
secret information and materials.  (Decl.
of Doss ¶¶ 9-12.)  To that end, Moving Defendant
requests this Court issue a protective order, derived from the Los Angeles
Superior Court Model Protective Order, with modifications to Paragraphs 7, 8,
and 21.  The Court will address proposed
revisions to these paragraphs in turn.
 
1.    
Paragraph
7 Revisions
With respect to Paragraph 7, Moving
Defendant’s revisions clarifies that “affiliated attorneys” mean attorneys in
the same firm and provide that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office personnel who have
access to Moving Defendant’s confidential documents must sign Exhibit A.  (See Decl. of Moawad, Exh. E at ¶7b.) 
Moving Defendant also proposes a revision to sub-section (d) to include
videographers and litigation support companies (along with court reporters),
who may have access to Defendant’s confidential documents by virtue of their
retention in a case.  (See Decl.
of Moawad, Exh. E at ¶7d.)  Moving Defendant
removed sub-section (f), which permitted mock jurors to access Moving Defendant’s
confidential documents because Moving Defendant has no ability to identify such
persons or ensure (or confirm) their compliance.  (Motion, pg. 9.)  Moving Defendant also revised sub-section (g)
to include non-attorneys with experts, and to provide that Moving Defendant’s
confidential documents may not be shown to competitors of Moving Defendant.  (Motion, pg. 9.)  Moving Defendant contends that these measures
are necessary to limit the risk of unauthorized access to confidential
materials and establish records of compliance with the protective order.  (See Decl. of Jacob Doss ¶¶9-12.) 
Plaintiffs oppose Moving Defendant’s
proposed revisions to this Paragraph 7 on the basis that they are unnecessary
and overly burdensome, arguing that restricting access to confidential
documents to attorneys within the same firm is unnecessary, as are disclosure
limitations to mock juries, as mock juries under the Model Protective Order
must sign a certification, thereby ensuring their accountability.  The Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s
arguments in opposition to these revisions.  Clarification of the term “affiliated
attorneys” and exclusion of mock jurors from accessing confidential documents
do not, on their face, impose an undue burden on Plaintiff, and Moving Defendant
has demonstrated the appropriateness of such measures to protect its
confidential and proprietary information. 
However, Plaintiff’s argument
that a requirement that all employees in Plaintiff’s counsel’s office must sign
Exhibit A is unnecessary and unduly burdensome is well taken.  Under the Model Order, the signature of
Plaintiff’s counsel binds counsel, the firm, and its employees.  Requiring additional signatures of other
employees merely imposes a heavier administrative burden to no appreciable
benefit. 
 
2.    
Paragraph
8 Revisions
Moving Defendant’s revisions to
Paragraph 8 provide that the receiving party may not post Moving Defendant’s
confidential documents to any website or advertise Defendant’s documents for
sale.  (Decl. of Moawad, Exh. E at ¶8.)  Moving Defendant contends that these
provisions are reasonable and necessary to protect Ford’s documents from
improper dissemination.  (Decl. of Doss
¶¶9-12.)  Plaintiffs argue that these
revisions are unnecessary, as the Model Protective Order strictly limits the
use of these materials to the litigation process.  The Court does not entirely share Plaintiffs’
view.  An express prohibition against the
posting or sale of Moving Defendant’s confidential documents on a website or
internet-accessible repository forecloses a major potential avenue for
dissemination of Moving Defendant’s confidential information, and imposes no
burden on Plaintiffs’ use of these materials in furtherance of this action. 
 
3.    
Paragraph
21 Revisions
Moving Defendant’s revisions to
Paragraph 21 clarify the process for Plaintiffs’ counsel to return or destroy Moving
Defendant’s confidential documents at the conclusion of the case and require
that all of Moving Defendant’s confidential documents be returned or destroyed
within 30 days of the case’s conclusion.  (Decl. of Moawad, Exh. E at ¶21.)  Moving Defendant argues that its proposals do
not inhibit Plaintiffs’ ability to litigate this matter in any way because it
continues to allow for disclosure to counsel for use in this case and are
necessary given Defendant’s interest in protecting its confidential business
and trade-secret information from unfettered disclosure.  (See Decl. of Doss ¶¶9-12.)  Plaintiffs oppose this modification on the
ground that Plaintiffs’ counsel should be permitted to retain a complete copy
of the case file subject to the protective order, as there is no risk of harm
to Moving Defendant.  The Court
disagrees.  The proposed modification
provides a clear and enforceable timeline for protection of Moving Defendant’s
confidential information at the conclusion of the case. 
The Court therefore finds
good cause for the issuance of a protective order as proposed by Moving Defendant,
with the exception of the requirement that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office
personnel sign the certification attached as Exhibit A to the proposed order. 
Based on the foregoing, Moving
Defendant’s motion for protective order is granted in part and denied in part.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendant’s motion for
a protective order is granted in part and denied in part.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  