 Case Number:  23STCV05484    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 13, 2023, Plaintiff Mario Medina Espinoza (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants ADT LLC (“ADT”), William Fernandez, and Does 1-20 for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
July 2, 2024, ADT filed an answer. 
On
July 15, 2024, ADT filed an application to admit attorney William J. McFadden
pro hac vice.  The application was set
for hearing on August 9, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 9, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
ADT asks
the Court to admit William J. McFadden pro hac vice. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“A
person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of California but who is an
attorney in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any
United States court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular
possession of the United States, and who has been retained to appear in a
particular cause pending in a court of this state, may in the discretion of
such court be permitted upon written application to appear as counsel pro hac
vice, provided that an active licensee of the State Bar of California is
associated as attorney of record. No person is eligible to appear as counsel
pro hac vice under this rule if the person is: 
“(1)  A resident of the State of California; 
“(2)  Regularly employed in the State of
California; or 
“(3)  Regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in the State of California.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(a).) 
“Absent
special circumstances, repeated appearances by any person under this rule is a
cause for denial of an application.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(b).) 
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in a superior court must file with the court a verified application together
with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the
application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must
be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless
the court has prescribed a shorter period.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(c)(1).) 
“The
application must state: 
“(1)  The applicant's residence and office address; 
“(2)  The courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; 
“(3)  That the applicant is a licensee in good
standing in those courts; 
“(4)  That the applicant is not currently suspended
or disbarred in any court; 
“(5)  The title of each court and cause in which
the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and 
“(6)  The name, address, and telephone number of
the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(d.) 
          The applicant must also pay a fee to the State Bar.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).) 
DISCUSSION 
ADT’s
application for pro hac vice admission of William J. McFadden satisfies the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 9.40.  The Court grants the application. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant ADT LLC’s application for pro hac vice admission of William
J. McFadden. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.