 Case Number:  21STCV05218    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  February 9, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Sutton  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Culver City  (“City”), Westfield Culver City (“Westfield Culver City”), and Does 1-20 for  premises liability.  On  March 25, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant State of  California Department of Transportation (“State”) as Doe 1.  On  March 29, 2021, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Plaintiff’s  request.  On  June 9, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Culver City  Mall LLC (“Mall”) as Doe 2.  On  July 2, 2021, the Court dismissed Westfield Culver City without prejudice at  Plaintiff’s request.  On  August 12, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against the State,  the Mall, and Does 1-20 for premises liability.  On  September 15, 2021, the Mall filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants the State and Roes 1-10 for implied indemnity, contribution  and apportionment, and declaratory relief. On November 10, 2021, the State  filed an answer to the cross-complaint.  On  November 10, 2021, the State filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants  the Mall and Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, contractual/express indemnity,  and declaratory relief.  On November 16, 2021, the Mall filed an answer.  On  December 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the  State, the Mall, and Does 3-20 for premises liability.  On  February 14, 2022, the State filed an answer to the second amended complaint.  On  December 19, 2022, Plaintiff amended the second amended complaint to include  Defendant Westfield Property Management, LLC (“Westfield”) as Doe 3.  On  April 15, 2024, the Court denied the State’s motion for summary judgment.  On  May 1, 2024, Westfield filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint.  On  June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint.  The motion was set for hearing on August 9,  2024.  On July 29, 2024, the State filed  an opposition.  On August 2, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for September 4, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  asks the Court for leave to file a third amended complaint.  The  State asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  “The  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name  of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake  in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or  demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the  adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any  pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an  answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,  subd. (a)(1).)  “Any  judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of  justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any  pleading or pretrial conference order.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.)  “ ‘While  a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to  the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and  reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case  in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his  pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion  to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the  opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal  also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious  cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of  discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment  Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.  Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  “[I]t  is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was  not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.  Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would  result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs  of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice  Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.  Practice Guide).)  “Ordinarily,  the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in  deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is  granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of  the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189  to 6-190.)  “[A]mendments  are usually allowed after summary judgments have been filed only to repair  complaints that are legally insufficient—in other words, those that would be  subject to a motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Van v. Target Corp. (2007) 155  Cal.App.4th 1375, 1387, fn. 2.)  An amendment that would not cure a legally  insufficient complaint, but instead would state a different theory of recovery,  is impermissible.  (Ibid.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The second amended complaint  The second  amended complaint alleges the following.  On  February 15, 2020, Plaintiff was driving a trash collection truck for the City  of Culver City. He was making a stop to empty trash bins in the Mall’s parking  lot, which the Mall operates.  The 90  Freeway, which the State maintains, bisects this parking lot.  The parking lot contains marked and unmarked  points where vehicles must cross under concrete overpasses to traverse the  parking lot.  Plaintiff  entered the parking lot at a point that was accurately marked for clearance,  then came upon an unmarked portion.  Plaintiff,  in reliance on the previous clearance and not seeing anything indicating a  dangerously low clearance, entered under the concrete overpass but then his  truck struck the underside or soffit of the 91 Freeway as it was approximately  halfway through.  The  Mall and the State knew or should have known to accurately warn foreseeable  motorists, especially those with higher profile vehicles such as Plaintiff, of  low clearances at all reasonably foreseeable points in the parking lot where a  vehicle must cross under concrete.  Plaintiff  encountered a dangerous condition on both private property (the mall parking  lot) and public property (the 91 Freeway overpass that bisects the parking  lot). Both Defendants had a duty to warn of this unmarked low clearance that  followed a marked slightly higher clearance. Defendants failed to warn  motorists or otherwise safeguard motorists, leading to Plaintiff's injuries.   B.  Plaintiff’s  motion to file a third amended complaint  Plaintiff  asks for leave to file a third amended complaint making the following changes to  the Judicial Council form used to allege a premises liability claim:  1.    Adding the State as a defendant in the premises  liability cause of action, count one (negligence)  2.    Adding the State as a defendant in the premises  liability cause of action, count two (willful failure to warn)  3.     Checking the box  in Prem.L-4.a of count three (dangerous condition of public property) to allege  that the defendant public entity had actual notice of the existence of the  dangerous condition in sufficient time prior to the injury to have corrected it.  4.    Checking the box in Prem.L-4.b of count three  (dangerous condition of public property) to allege that the condition was  created by employees of the defendant public entity  Plaintiff  contends that these proposed amendments do not change the nature of the lawsuit  or the fact that Plaintiff has alleged that the State did not warn of the  sloping concrete overpass and the changing clearances that it created and owns.  The  State opposes the motion, arguing the proposed  amendments would prejudice the State by creating a new theory of liability  after the hearing on the State’s summary judgment motion and less than one  month before the scheduled trial.  In  reply, Plaintiff argues that he is not alleging new theories of liability.  The  second amended complaint alleged that the  State “knew or should have known to accurately warn foreseeable motorists,  especially those with higher profile vehicles such as Plaintiff, of low  clearances at all reasonably foreseeable points in the parking lot where a  vehicle must cross under concrete.”   In addition,  the second amended complaint alleged that “Both defendants had a duty to warn  of this unmarked low clearance that followed a marked slightly higher clearance.  Defendants failed to warn motorists or otherwise safeguard motorists, leading  to Plaintiff's injuries.”  The  Court finds that the third amended complaint does not add a new theory of recovery.  Because the State was aware of the theories  of recovery asserted in the proposed third amended complaint, the Court finds the  State will not suffer prejudice if the Court grants the motion.          CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff Robert Sutton’s  motion for leave to file a third amended complaint.  Plaintiff Robert Sutton is ordered to file  the third amended complaint within 10 days of the hearing on this motion.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.