 Case Number:  22STCV03850    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 1, 2022, Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Bella Assets LLC (“Bella”) and Does 1-20 for general negligence and
premises liability. On February 8, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to
include Defendants Bada, LLC (“Bada”) as Doe 1 and Hyun Suk Cho (“Hyuk Suk
Cho”) as Doe 2. On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include
Defendant Yoon Jung Cho as Doe 3. 
On
May 24, 2023, Bella and Bada filed an answer. 
On
May 16, 2024, the Court dismissed Bada without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition
of Bella’s person most knowledgeable and production of documents.  The motion was set for hearing on August 9,
2024.  Bella has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 14, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order Bella to produce its person most knowledgeable for deposition and produce documents. 
LEGAL STANDARD “The
[Discovery] Act does not specify what sanctions [citation] may be imposed
against an entity for designating someone lacking knowledge of all matters
specified in the [deposition] notice.”  (L. Edmon
& C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter
2024) ¶ 8:476, p. 8E-20.)  “Apparently, a
motion would lie to compel the corporation to designate someone having the
information requested.”  (Ibid.)  The court may order the entity to pay the
costs and fees incurred by the deposing party in taking additional
depositions.  (Ibid.)  In addition, “a company that refused to
produce a deponent able to respond to reasonable deposition topics potentially
could be precluded from introducing evidence at trial on those topics from the
company’s witnesses.”  (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges the following: 
On October
11, 2021, Defendants negligently owned and maintained the premises located at
1175 N. Mentor Avenue in Pasadena (“premises”). 
“Plaintiff was hired by an unlicensed agent or representative of
Plaintiff [sic] to perform contracting and/or roofing work at the [premises],
during which time Plaintiff [sic] maintained a dangerous condition on
the Premises which resulted in Plaintiff falling from the roof and fracturing
his L-1 vertebra.” 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Bella’s
person most knowledgeable and production of documents 
On March 21,
2024, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Bella’s person most knowledgeable for
April 25, 2024.  The notice listed 20
subjects on which Plaintiff intended to examine the deponent and asked Bella to
produce specified documents.  Plaintiff
continued the deposition to May 9, 2024. 
Bella did not object to the deposition notice. 
On May 9,
2024, Bella produced Elizabeth Ramirez (“Ramirez”), a transaction coordinator,
as Bella’s person most knowledgeable. 
Plaintiff contends that Ramirez could not answer numerous questions
about the subjects listed in the deposition notice.  In addition, Plaintiff asserts that Bella
failed to produce a large number of responsive documents. 
As noted, Bella
has not filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. 
The Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion and orders Bella to produce a
person or persons most knowledgeable to testify about the subjects listed in
Plaintiff’s deposition notice and to produce responsive documents within 30
days of the hearing on this motion. 
Plaintiff
seeks $1,600.00 in sanctions based on four hours of attorney time to prepare
the moving papers at a rate of $400.00 per hour. 
The Court
awards $750.00 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time at a
reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour. 
CONCLUSION 
The GRANTS Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim’s motion to compel Defendant Bella Assets LLC to produce its person most knowledgeable for
deposition and to produce documents responsive to the deposition notice.  The Court orders Defendant Bella Assets LLC to produce its person or persons most knowledgeable to
testify about the subjects listed in Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim’s deposition notice and to produce
responsive documents within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
 The GRANTS Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim’s request for
sanctions and orders Defendant Bella Assets LLC and its counsel to pay Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim $750.00 within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.