  Case Number:  22STCV26333    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT AGHAJANYAN'S MOTION FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGSBACKGROUND
The case is a
wrongful death action stemming from a car crash that occurred in Burbank on
August 3, 2021.  Defendant Hamlet Arseni
Aghajanyan was allegedly driving at an extreme speed when he crashed his car
into the car driven by Shana Rohani, severely injuring Rohani and killing her
three passengers, including Plaintiff Nichole Richardson’s son, Jaiden Johnson. Defendant Aghajanyan brings a motion to stay all the
civil actions pending the outcome of the related criminal action, or to stay
discovery as to Defendant Aghajanyan only. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Aghajanyan’s
motion is granted in part.  Discovery is
stayed as to Defendant Hamlet Aghajanyan only.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A party to a civil
case who is also exposed to criminal liability may “invoke[] his privilege
against self-incrimination during discovery in civil litigation.”  (Fuller v. Superior Court (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 299, 304-305; see U.S. Const. Amend. 5 [“No person . . . shall be
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself”]; Cal. Evid.
Code, § 940 [“To the extent that such privilege exists under the Constitution
of the United States or the State of California, a person has a privilege to
refuse to disclose any matter that may tend to incriminate him.”].)  Such a party may request a stay of the civil
proceedings pending disposition of his criminal case or expiration of the
applicable statute of limitations.  (See Bains
v. Moores (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 445, 482; Fuller, at pp. 302-304.)
 
Although the right
against self-incrimination is constitutional, “[t]he Constitution does not
require a stay of civil proceedings pending the outcome of criminal
proceedings.”  (Avant! Corp. v. Superior
Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 886; accord, People v. Coleman (1975)
13 Cal.3d 867, 885.)  Rather, the
superior court “may decide in its discretion to stay civil proceedings” (Avant,
at p. 885), “in light of the particular circumstances and competing interests
involved.”  (People ex rel. Harris v.
Rizzo (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 921, 952; accord, Avant, 79 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 881-882; Coleman, 13 Cal.3d at p. 885.)  According to Avant, the court “should
consider the extent to which Fifth Amendment rights are implicated.  In addition, factors to be considered include:
(1) the interest of the party opposing the stay in proceeding expeditiously
with the action, and the potential prejudice to the party opposing the stay of
a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may
impose on the party seeking the stay; (3) the convenience to the court in
management of its cases and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the
interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest
of the public in the pending cases.”  (Harris,
214 Cal.App.4th at p. 952; accord, Alpha Media Resort Investment Cases (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1132; Avant, at 79 Cal.App.4th at p. 885.)
 
DISCUSSION
“When both civil and
criminal proceedings arise out of the same or related transactions, an
objecting party is generally entitled to a stay of discovery in the civil
action until disposition of the criminal matter.”  (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162
Cal.App.3d 686, 690.)  While Plaintiffs
argue that Pacers is distinguishable on numerous grounds, there are
sufficient circumstances present here which would allow for a limited discovery
stay as to Defendant Aghajanyan.  First,
the Court notes that discovery remains open and given the pending criminal case
against moving Defendant, he is subject to being deposed and asked to respond
to written discovery thereby placing them at risk of having to choose between
defending the civil action and invoking Fifth Amendment rights.  
 
Second, any
prejudice to Plaintiff in a limited stay of discovery as to Defendant Aghajanyan
is outweighed by the burden and prejudice to Defendant given the pendency of
his criminal matter and the seriousness of the charges.  Although it is unclear from the moving and
opposing papers the date of any criminal trial against Defendant, there is no
trial date set in this civil matter. 
This, coupled with the fact that Plaintiff has alleged claims against
numerous tortfeasors supports the Court’s conclusion that a brief stay of discovery
as to Defendant Aghajanyan would not significantly impact Plaintiff’s ability
to continue to litigate this action.
 
Finally, the Court’s
interest in managing its docket and judicial economy favor a stay, as such
would likely obviate the need for numerous law and motion proceedings related
to any assertion of Defendant Aghajanyan’s Fifth Amendment rights in written
discovery and deposition.
 
Defendant Aghajanyan’s
motion is granted, and a stay of discovery applies only to him. The Joinders filed
by Defendants Claudia Moghaddam, Pirouz Moghaddam, Keeyan Moghaddam, Neekou
Moghaddam, Calvin Johnson, and Latese Cherie Whitehead are granted consistent
with the Court’s ruling on Defendant Aghajanyan’s motion – discovery is stayed
only as to Defendant Aghajanyan.
 
The Joinders filed
by Defendants Claudia Moghaddam, Pirouz Moghaddam, Keeyan Moghaddam, Neekou
Moghaddam, Calvin Johnson, and Latese Cherie Whitehead are granted consistent
with the Court’s ruling on Defendant Aghajanyan’s motion – discovery is stayed
only as to Defendant Aghajanyan.Defendant Aghajanyan is to give notice.