 Case Number:  21STCV14726    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SCOT HICKEY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE RAND CORPORATION and DOES 1-10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV14726
 Hearing Date:   2/20/24
 Trial Date:        3/26/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant The Rand
  Corporation’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Kenneth Graves, MFT Subpoena.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Scot Hickey sues
Defendant The Rand Corporation (Rand Corp.) and Does 1-10 pursuant to an April
19, 2021 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Fair Employment and Housing Act
(FEHA) Disability Discrimination, (2) FEHA Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation,
(3) FEHA Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process, (4) California Family
Rights Act (CFRA) Retaliation, (5) FEHA Retaliation, (6) FEHA Age
Discrimination, (7) FEHA Failure to Prevent Retaliation, and (8) Labor Code
Retaliation (Lab. Code, § 1102.5).
The claims arise from allegations
that in or around 2017, Plaintiff Hickey—a Rand Corp. research programmer since
1999—experienced a severe downturn in mental health that led Plaintiff’s doctor
to diagnose Plaintiff with DSM 296.53, i.e., the code for bipolar 1 disorder
set by the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical
Modification (ICD-9-CM). The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff took a leave of
absence for three months through May 2017, after which Plaintiff returned to
work and continued to receive treatment from medical providers for his ongoing
mental health conditions, including anxiety and depression. Additionally, the
Complaint alleges that based on his leave of absence or based on conduct
attributable to his mental health disability, Plaintiff Hickey for the first
time began receiving negative performance reviews or performance improvement
plans, first in July 2017, and then in May 2018, and July 2019. The Complaint
also alleges that Plaintiff’s compensation was reduced for “lack of work”
despite Plaintiff being a salaried employee, that non-disabled employees were
treated better, and that Plaintiff was terminated on November 8, 2019. The
Complaint briefly alleges that younger employees were favored by Rand Corp.,
with Plaintiff being approximately 52 years old at the time of his termination.
Motion Before the Court
On August 7, 2023, The
Rand Corp. served Plaintiff Hickey with a notice of deposition subpoena for
production of business records from “William Graves.”
On August 14, 2023, The
Rand Corp. served non-party “Ken Graves” with the deposition subpoena, which
seeks production of (1) all medical records relating to Plaintiff Hickey from
January 1, 2014 to the present and (2) all communications between Plaintiff
Hickey and Kenneth Graves relating to Hickey’s medical records from January 1,
2014 to the present. The motion does not seek monetary sanctions against
Kenneth Graves, MFT.
On September 14, 2023,
Kenneth Graves, MFT objected to the deposition subpoena.
On November 7, 2023,
The Rand Corp. served Plaintiff Hickey with an updated notice of deposition
subpoena for production of business records from “Kenneth Graves.”
On November 13, 2023,
The Rand Corp. served non-party Kenneth Graves, MFT with an updated deposition
subpoena, this time updating the subpoena to correctly reflect Kenneth Graves,
MFT’s name, title, and address.
On December 18, 2023,
The Rand Corp. filed a motion to compel the deposition of Kenneth Graves, MFT,
which involves the two production requests above.
On January 31, 2024,
Kenneth Graves opposed The Rand Corp.’s motion.
On February 9, 2024,
The Rand Corp. replied to the opposition.
The Rand Corp.’s motion
is now before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition

Preliminary Note – Separate
Statement
The Court notes that if a proposed
deponent made some response to the deposition notice, then a separate statement
must accompany any motion to compel deposition attendance or production. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (b).) 
Here, Kenneth Graves, MFT objected generally
to The Rand Corp.’s deposition subpoena. (See Mot., Morosco Decl., last page of
Ex. F, SUBP-025, Objection by Non-Party to Production of Records.) Thus, a
separate statement was arguably necessary, although there was no substantive objection
other than to check a box and state that the “client denies medical records
released.” 
The Rand Corp. failed to file a
separate statement in connection with its motion. However, this issue was not
raised in Kenneth Graves, MFT’s opposition, which addressed the issue on the
merits, and the moving papers contain sufficient grounds for the Court to make
a substantive determination on the relief requested.
Accordingly, the Court exercises
its discretion to the extent any separate statement was needed, and permits
this hearing to move forward on the merits.
Legal Standard
If, [1] after service of a
deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, [5] the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals
added for clarity].)
Although Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450 does not apply to nonparties and section 2025.480 does not
address attendance, courts regularly consider and grant motions to compel
nonparties to attend depositions. (See, e.g., Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 352, 355 [court considered motion to compel nonparty to attend
deposition; Sears, Roebuck, & Co. v. National Un. Fire Ins. (2005)
131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1351 [court held that subpoenaing party can move to
compel when nonparty deponent does not appear or produce documents at
deposition]; Brun v. Bailey (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 641, 645-646 [court
considered motion to compel nonparty to attend deposition].)
The motion shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The motion shall also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2).)
Order Compelling Deposition(s):
GRANTED, in part [as modified, and subject to orders below].
I. Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a)
Here, The Rand Corp. has provided
evidence to show:
[1]-[2] Service of the deposition
subpoena on Kenneth Graves, MFT, on August 14, 2023, and then again on November
13, 2023, with the November subpoena updating the party served from “Williams
Graves Therapy, by and through his Custodian of Records, 1000 Quail Street
#135, Newport Beach, CA 92660-2719” to “Kenneth Graves Jr License Marriage and
Family Therapist Inc c/o Kenneth Graves LMFT, by and through his Custodian of
Records, 1000 Quail Street #135, Newport Beach, CA 92660-2719” (Mot., Morosco
Decl., Exs. E, G); and
[4] Kenneth Graves, MFT’s failure
to appear for an examination (Mot., Morosco Decl., ¶¶ 6-10).
The Court notes that while service
was made on a non-party, the Court may nevertheless consider this motion. (See,
e.g., Terry v. SLICO, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at p. 355 [court
considered motion to compel nonparty to attend deposition; Sears, Roebuck,
& Co. v. National Un. Fire Ins., supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at p.
1351 [court held that subpoenaing party can move to compel when nonparty
deponent does not appear or produce documents at deposition]; Brun v. Bailey,
supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at pp. 645-646 [court considered motion to compel
nonparty to attend deposition].)
Last, the Court determines whether a
proper objection [3] has been stated.
The September 14, 2023 objection by
Kenneth Graves indicated an objection to the August 14, 2023 subpoena on the
ground that the “client [i.e., Plaintiff Hickey] denie[d] medical records
[being] released” to The Rand Corp. (Mot., Morosco Decl., Ex. F, SUBP-025,
Objection by Non-Party to Production of Records.)
The Court finds limited merit to
this objection. As argued by the moving papers, Plaintiff Hickey has put his emotional
condition at issue because Plaintiff Hickey alleges emotional distress damages
as a result of the wrongdoing alleged against The Rand Corp. (See, e.g.,
Complaint, Prayer, ¶¶ 38, 44, 52, 59, 66, 72, 80 & Prayer, ¶ 1.) As a
result, any right to privacy held by Plaintiff Hickey has been waived or
overcome to the extent the deposition subpoena seeks information relevant to
this action. This is because Plaintiff Hickey has put his emotional distress at
issue in relation to the Complaint’s allegations, and The Rand Corp. has a
compelling interest in obtaining discovery relating to Plaintiff Hickey’s
emotional distress because such information is directly relevant to The Rand
Corp.’s defense at trial and disclosure is essential to a fair resolution of
this action. (Mathews v. Becerra (2019) 8 Cal.5th 756, 782 [autonomy
privacy in seeking psychiatric treatment]; Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 556 [If the case involves an obvious invasion of a
privacy interest that is fundamental to the holder’s personal autonomy, a
compelling interest or need must be present to overcome the privacy interest]; John
B. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1199 [by putting his own medical
condition at issue, defendant substantially lowered expectation of privacy]; Wegner,
Fairbank, Epstein & Chernow, California Practice Guide: Civil Trials
& Evidence (The Rutter Group) Ch. 8-E ¶ 8:2728 [A party who claims
emotional distress from sexual harassment may waive her right to privacy as to
her present mental or emotional condition]; Britt v. Superior Court
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859 [The personal information should be disclosed only if
(1) it is directly relevant to the party’s claim or defense and (2) disclosure
is essential to the fair resolution of the claim or defense].) 
In opposition, Kenneth Graves, MFT
limits his arguments to (1) the existence of an applicable
psychotherapist-patient privilege and right to privacy in the requested medical
information and (2) limiting the scope of the subpoena by allowing Kenneth
Graves, MFT to make production to Plaintiff Hickey so that Plaintiff’s counsel
may determine which of the produced documents pertain to Plaintiff’s claims in
the instant matter. Kenneth Graves, MFT adds that because the subpoena is
limited to document production, The Rand Corp. will need to request court
authorization before Kenneth Graves, MFT can be compelled to attend a
deposition and answer questions by The Rand Corp. at that time. (Opp’n, pp.
3-6.) 
The Court deems it reasonable for a
mental health professional to proffer his objection and allow a court to make
the determination, rather than to agree to produce documents or provide
testimony customarily covered by the doctor/patient privilege. Nonetheless, the
Court has addressed the fact that any privilege or right to privacy has been
overcome by the Rand Corp. insofar as The Rand. Corp. seeks production of
documents relating to Plaintiff’s emotional distress in connection with this
action, which is information relevant to a fair resolution of this action.
As a result, Kenneth Graves, MFT
does not offer any objections pursuant to which the Court should outright deny
a deposition of Kenneth Graves, MFT.
The Court, however, accepts Kenneth
Graves, MFT’s argument that the deposition subpoena should be limited. The
deposition subpoena currently requests:
(1) “All MEDICAL RECORDS RELATING
TO SCOT HICKEY[] [where] [t]he time period covered by this category of
documents is January 1, 2014 to present”; and
(2) ALL COMMUNICATIONS between YOU
and SCOT HICKEY RELATING TO his MEDICAL RECORDS, including his physical,
mental, medical, psychiatric, psychological and/or emotional condition[]
[where] [t]he time period covered by this category of documents is January 1,
2014 to present.”
(Mot., Morosco Decl., Ex. G.)
The Court determines that these
requests are overbroad because they do not limit themselves to medical records
of Plaintiff Hickey’s emotional distress or other injuries arising from his
employment with The Rand Corp. and the wrongdoing alleged against The Rand
Corp. in the Complaint.
As such, the Court modifies the
subpoena to request as follows:
(1) All MEDICAL RECORDS RELATING TO
SCOT HICKEY, where the time period covered by this category of documents is
January 1, 2014 to present, and where the records must relate to Plaintiff
Hickey’s employment with the Rand Corp. or the wrongdoing alleged against The
Rand Corp. in the Complaint in LASC No. 21STCV14726, or any conditions that
Hickey attributes to his employment or the wrongdoing at The Rand Corp.;
and
(2) ALL COMMUNICATIONS between YOU
and SCOT HICKEY RELATING TO his MEDICAL RECORDS, including his physical,
mental, medical, psychiatric, psychological and/or emotional condition, where the
time period covered by this category of documents is January 1, 2014 to present,
and where the records must relate to any conditions that Hickey attributes to
his employment with the Rand Corp. or the wrongdoing alleged against The Rand
Corp. in the Complaint in LASC No. 21STCV14726.
II. Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (b)(1)
Here, the Court adopts its
discussion in Section I above to determine that the modified discovery’s
relevance to this action shows good cause for production, thus satisfying the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.450, subdivision (b)(1).
III. Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (b)(2)
Here, The Rand Corp. provides
evidence to show that it followed up with Kenneth Graves, MFT, and with
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding production of records by Kenneth Graves, MFT.
(Mot., Morosco Decl., ¶¶ 6-10.)
IV. Deposition Conclusion
and Conditions on Subpoena
Because The Rand Corp. has
satisfied the statutory requirements for compelling compliance with its
deposition subpoena served on Kenneth Graves, MFT, The Rand Corp.’s motion is
GRANTED, in part.
The Court notes that it has
modified the subpoena to only request:
(1) All MEDICAL RECORDS RELATING TO
SCOT HICKEY, where the time period covered by this category of documents is
January 1, 2014 to present, and where the records must relate to any
conditions that Hickey attributes to his employment with the Rand Corp.
or the wrongdoing alleged against The Rand Corp. in the Complaint in LASC No. 21STCV14726;
and
(2) ALL COMMUNICATIONS between YOU
and SCOT HICKEY RELATING TO his MEDICAL RECORDS, including his physical,
mental, medical, psychiatric, psychological and/or emotional condition, where the
time period covered by this category of documents is January 1, 2014 to present,
and where the records must relate to any conditions that Hickey attributes to
his employment with the Rand Corp. or the wrongdoing alleged against The
Rand Corp. in the Complaint in LASC No. 21STCV14726.
The Court also ORDERS as follows.
Kenneth Graves, MFT will produce
all possibly relevant documents to First Legal.
First Legal will bates stamp the
produced documents before forwarding those documents to Plaintiff Hickey.
First Legal will thereafter provide
The Rand Corp. with the bates range of the documents produced to Plaintiff
Hickey.
Plaintiff Hickey’s counsel may
redact the information in the produced documents that is not relevant to this
action or is subject to an objection not already considered and rejected by the
Court. (See above discussion.)
Plaintiff Hickey will then produce
the redacted documents to The Rand Corp., along with a privilege log detailing
any privileges raised by Plaintiff Hickey in objection to the production. The
privilege log must conform with any protective order signed by the parties.
However, to the extent that any protective order between the parties does not
address the subject matter of the subpoena served on Kenneth Graves, MFT, the
privilege log must conform with Hernandez v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 291, fn. 6.
The Rand Corp. may then as it
wishes exercise its rights to compel further production.
The Court last notes that it makes
no determination on whether The Rand Corp. may depose Kenneth Graves, MFT, by
asking questions of him at a deposition. That question is not before the Court
because the amended deposition subpoena at issue only requests document
production, making a deposition as to categories of examination irrelevant to
the issues now before the Court. (See Mot., Morosco Decl., Ex. G; see also Hunt
v. Superior Court (1999) 21 Cal.4th 984, 998 [“… [T]he ripeness requirement
prevents courts from issuing purely advisory opinions[] or considering a
hypothetical state of facts in order to give general guidance rather than to
resolve a specific legal dispute”].)
 
Conclusion
Defendant The Rand Corporation’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Kenneth
Graves, MFT Subpoena is GRANTED, in part, as modified above, and subject to the
additional orders made above.