  Case Number:  19STCP00482    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITIZENS FOR AMENDING PROPOSITION L, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CITY OF POMONA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCP00482
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT
 
Date: 
  October 13, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: May 6, 2024



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY: 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant City of Pomona (the “City” or “Pomona”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a dispute over the
City’s regulation of billboards and was initiated by Plaintiffs on February 14,
2019.  The currently operative sixth
amended complaint (the “6AC”) alleges: (1) declaratory relief, injunctive
relief, and damages for deprivation of civil rights (First Amendment). 
 
In relevant part, the 6AC alleges: In 1993,
the City passed Proposition L, which imposed restrictions on the erection of
new billboards in the City.  (See 6AC
¶ 18.)  Stephens, who owns and operates
billboards, has been denied permits to construct billboards in the City.  (6AC ¶ 84.) 
Despite Proposition L and the City’s refusal to allow Stephens to
operate billboards, the City has allowed Real-Party-In-Interest Regency
(“Regency”) to operate ten billboards (the “Regency Billboards”).  (6AC ¶ 85.)  
 
On May 5, 2023, the City filed a motion for
summary judgment (the “Motion”) to the 6AC on the grounds that there are no
triable issues of material fact regarding the first cause of action and the
City is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Specifically, the Motion argues that: (1)
Plaintiffs’ claims are time-barred; and (2) the evidence demonstrates that
Plaintiffs’ facial and as-applied constitutional challenges to Proposition L
are meritless.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The City’s Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED as to the existence of the documents and their legal effect, but not to
the truth of the matters stated therein. 
(See Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)
 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The City’s objections to the Declaration of
J. Keith Stephens (“Stephens Decl.”) numbers 1, 3-7, and 9 are SUSTAINED.  The City’s objections to the Stephens
Declaration numbers 2 and 8 are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion for summary judgment
or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party
cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible
from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
A plaintiff moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication meets the burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if the plaintiff has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling them to judgment on that cause of action.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  Once the moving party has met its burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of the opposing party. 
(Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  The Court cannot
weigh the credibility of witnesses or weigh other evidence, and where there is
a conflict in declarations presented by the parties on material issues of fact
or a conflict in the inferences to be drawn from that evidence, the Court must
deny the motion.  (Binder v. Aetna
Life. Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) 
 
The City’s Evidence
In support of the Motion, the City provides
evidence that on or about June 24, 1993, the City and Regency entered into a
development agreement (the “Development Agreement”) for Regency to operate the
Regency Billboards.  (Separate Statement
of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 1.) 
The Development Agreement governed the Regency Billboards’ operation for
ten years with an option for an automatic extension for a second 10-year
term.  (UMF 2.)  On November 2, 1993, Pomona voters adopted
Proposition L, which provides that “[n]o new or structurally altered offsite
billboards shall be permitted within the City of Pomona.”  (UMF 3.) 

 
The second term of the Development Agreement began
in 2004 and had an expiration date of June 24, 2014.  (UMF 5.) 
On July 7, 2014, the City adopted Ordinance No. 4190 to extend the
Development Agreement for a third term. 
(UMF 6.)  In 2018, an appellate
court struck down Ordinance No. 4190 on the grounds that it violated
Proposition L.  (UMF 7.)[1]  The City made Regency aware of its intention
to remove the Regency Billboards beginning in 2019.  (UMF 8.) 
Stephens and his affiliated entities have not submitted applications for
permits to erect billboards since 2015. 
(See UMF 11-14.)  
 
First Amendment Challenges
A challenge to the constitutional validity of
a statute may be of two types: a facial challenge and an as-applied challenge.  (San Francisco Unified School Dist. v. City
and County of San Francisco (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1079.)  A facial challenge to the constitutional
validity of a statute or ordinance considers only the text of the measure
itself, not its application to the particular circumstances of an individual.  (Id.)  To support a determination of facial
unconstitutionality, petitioners must demonstrate that the act's provisions
inevitably pose a present total and fatal conflict with applicable
constitutional prohibitions.  (Id.)  In contrast, an as-applied challenge seeks relief
from a specific application of a facially valid statute or ordinance to an
individual or class of individuals who are under allegedly impermissible
present restraint or disability as a result of the manner or circumstances in
which the statute or ordinance has been applied.  (Id.) 

 
An as-applied challenge may seek: (1) relief
from a specific application of a facially valid statute or ordinance to an
individual or class of individuals who are under allegedly impermissible
present restraint or disability as a result of the manner or circumstances in
which the statute or ordinance has been applied; or (2) an injunction against
future application of the statute or ordinance in the allegedly impermissible
manner it is shown to have been applied in the past.  (Ribakoff v. City of Long Beach (2018)
27 Cal.App.5th 150, 167.)  Such a
challenge contemplates analysis of the facts of a particular case or cases to
determine the circumstances in which the statute or ordinance has been applied
and to consider whether in those particular circumstances the application
deprived the individual to whom it was applied of a protected right.  (Id.) 
To prevail on such a contention, the party asserting an as-applied
challenge must establish a pattern of impermissible application of the statute,
rule or policy.  (Id.)
 
Facial challenges to a legislative body's
decision to adopt a zoning ordinance must be brought within 90 days of the date
the ordinance becomes effective.  (County of Sonoma v. Superior Court (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th
1312, 1323-24.)  As-applied
constitutional challenges have a statute of limitations of two years.  (See Action Apartment Ass'n, Inc. v. Santa
Monica Rent Control Bd. (9th Cir. 2007) 509 F.3d 1020, 1026-27.)
 
Although the 6AC alleges that Proposition L
is unconstitutional both on its face and as applied to Plaintiffs, the 6AC does
not specifically allege why the text of the law violates constitutional free
speech protections.  Rather, the facial
challenge is alleged as a legal conclusion and the gravamen of Plaintiffs’
claim is that the City’s enforcement of Proposition L is unconstitutional based
on the contrast between the City’s treatment of Regency and the Regency Billboards
and Stephens’s attempts to acquire a permit to operate billboards.  (See 6AC ¶¶ 84-91.)
 
            The City has met its
burden to establish that the 6AC’s claims are outside the statute of
limitations for an as-applied challenge based the deposition testimony given by
Stephens on April 7, 2022 stating that he had not applied for a permit since
2015.  The opposition (the “Opposition”)
presents evidence that Stephens applied for a permit on July 20, 2022.  (See Stephens Decl. ¶ 19.)  The Court notes that the Opposition’s
evidence of the July 20, 2022 attempt to acquire a permit is outside the scope
of the 6AC, which was filed on February 18, 2022.  The Opposition provides no other evidence of
attempts to apply for a permit within the two-year limitations period.  
 
Regardless of the evidence of Stephens’s 2022
permit application, Plaintiffs present no evidence of differential treatment
within the two-year limitations period. 
The 6AC’s challenge to Proposition L is premised on Stephens being
forbidden from operating billboards while Regency was contemporaneously allowed
to maintain the Regency Billboards. 
Before 2014, the Regency Billboards were operated pursuant to the
Development Agreement -- a contract that fell outside the parameters of
Proposition L because it was executed before that law’s enactment.  After the City passed Ordinance No. 4190 in
an attempt to further extend the Development Agreement, the legality of the
Regency Billboards has been an ongoing subject of litigation.[2]  There is no pattern of the City’s impermissible
application of Proposition L—the Regency Billboards were previously not
encompassed by the law’s restrictions, and the City is currently litigating
their removal.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
there are no factual issues regarding Plaintiffs’ claims.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
     
       Dated this 13th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






