 Case Number:  23STCP04613    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  82 Jeffrey Prang,                                                            Case
No. 23STCP04613    
Los Angeles County Assessor           
                                                                        
v.                                                                     Hearing:
November 15, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse          Assessment
Appeals Board No. 2                                  Department: 82
of
the County of Los Angeles                                   Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch            
                                                
            
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to
Augment the Administrative Record
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part Cross-Complaint
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Jeffrey Prang, the
Los Angeles County Assessor (the “Assessor”) petitions for a writ of
administrative mandate directing the Assessment Appeals Board No. 2 of the
County of Los Angeles (the “Board”) to set aside and reconsider its decision,
after remand, on an appeal filed by Time Warner Cable, Inc. (“Time Warner”)
challenging the Assessor’s valuation of Time Warner’s possessory interests in government-owned
land that Time Warner acquired through cable television franchise
agreements.  
 
The Court of
Appeal remanded that matter to the Board “to determine the value of the
possessory interests in providing broadband and telephone services and allocate
some portion of the economic rent to the intangible rights and assets of Time
Warner's cable system.”  (AR 3208.)  On remand, the Assessor and Time Warner
sought to prove the economic rent of the possessory interests by introducing
evidence of contract rents paid for comparable taxable possessory
interests.  For the second remand issue,
the Assessor allocated five percent of the franchise fee to the intangible
right to do business, and the remaining 95 percent to the possessory
interests.  In contrast, Time Warner valued
its right to do business by estimating the income generated by its marketing
expenses.  The Board adopted the
valuation approaches of Time Warner and not the Assessor.
 
The Assessor now contends
that the Board’s remand decision is contrary to the law of the case, is based
on multiple errors of law, and is not supported by substantial evidence.  Time Warner contends that the Board was
correct to adopt its valuation methods, but that it erred in an adjustment to
Time Warner’s valuation of the right to do business.  The court concludes that the Board properly adopted
Time Warner’s valuation methods and that substantial evidence supports all the
Board’s factual findings, except for one: There is no factual support for the 50
percent reduction imposed by the Board for the profit margin used in Time
Warner’s valuation of the right to do business. 
Accordingly, the matter must be remanded for the Board to reconsider
that single issue.  In all other
respects, the Assessor’s petition for writ of mandate is denied.  


 
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        The
Possessory Interests 
 
During
the valuation period at issue—January 1, 2005, through January 1, 2008 (the
“relevant time period”)—Time Warner owned and operated numerous cable systems
within Los Angeles County (the “County”). 
(AR 2235-2236, 784-787.)  Time
Warner delivered three services over its cable systems: (1) Cable television
and other video services, (2) Internet, and 
(3)
Telephone.  (AR 2235, 3213.)   All
three services were delivered through the same cable system, which is located
on public rights-of-way.  (AR 2234, 3234,
2868-2872.)  The right to use those
public rights-of-way is a taxable interest in real property called a possessory
interest.  (AR 2240.)  Time Warner operated its cable systems
pursuant to franchise agreements with various municipalities and, in
unincorporated areas, the County itself.  (AR 2235, 785-787, 3213.)  These franchise agreements confer two rights
on Time Warner: (1) The taxable possessory interest, which is taxable; and (2) The
right to do business, which is not taxable.  (AR 2235, 3213.)  In exchange for these franchise rights, Time
Warner pays the franchising authorities an annual franchise fee, which is limited
by federal law to five percent of revenue generated from the provision of
television services only.  (AR 2235; see
also AR 2239, citing 47 U.S.C. §§ 542(b), 522(6).)   
 
B.        Taxation
of Possessory Interests
 
Unless
exempt, all property is taxable in proportion to its “full value.”  (Cal. Const., art. XIII, § 1; Rev. & Tax.
Code § 201.)  Property includes a
possessory interest a cable company’s right-of-way granted by a public entity.  (Rev. & Tax. Code. §§ 104, 107; Cox
Cable San Diego, Inc. v. County of San Diego (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 368, 378.)  However, the right to engage in business as a
cable service provider is not taxable. (See County of Stanislaus v.
Assessment Appeals Board (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1445, 1450; see also AR
2239-2240.)  
 
The
methods for valuing a possessory interest granted to a cable television
operator by franchise “shall include, but not be limited to, the comparable
sales method, the income method (including, but not limited to, capitalizing
rent), or the cost method.”  (Rev. &
Tax. Code §107.7(a).)  Under the income
approach, the assessor “values an income property by computing the present
worth of a future income stream.”  (Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 18 § 8(b).). The preferred method of valuing cable television
possessory interests is by capitalizing the annual rent, which is “that portion
of that franchise fee that is determined to be payment for the cable possessory
interest … or the appropriate economic rent.”  (Rev. & Tax. Code §107.7(b)(2).)  “If the assessor does not use a portion of the
franchise fee as the economic rent, the resulting assessments shall not benefit
from any presumption of correctness.” (Rev. & Tax. Code §107.7(b)(2).)  But “[n]othing in the law prohibits the
assessor from using alternative valuation methods; the law merely deprives the
county of the benefit of a presumption of correctness if it chooses not to
value the interest by capitalizing a portion of the franchise fee.”  (AR 2241.)
 
The
State Board’s regulations define “economic rent” as the “the estimated
amount that would be paid by the possessor, on the valuation date in cash or
its equivalent, for the rights in real property provided by the taxable
possessory interest if (i) the rights to possession were offered in an open and
competitive market ….”  (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 18 § 21(a)(8).)  As relevant
to the Board’s decision after remand, this regulation, which is referred to as
Rule 21, also states the following:
 
The economic rent of the subject
taxable possessory interest may be estimated by reference to (i) the contract
rent for the subject taxable possessory interest; (ii) contract rents for
comparable taxable possessory interests; (iii) contract rents for comparable
fee simple absolute interests in real property; or (iv) contract rents for
other comparable interests in real property. All such contract rents shall
have been negotiated in an open and competitive market involving real property
reasonably comparable to the subject taxable possessory interest in terms of
physical attributes, location, legally enforceable restrictions on the
property's use, term of possession, and risk of cancellation of the taxable
possessory interest by public owner. In addition, the contract rents shall have
been negotiated sufficiently near in time to the valuation date as to shed
light on the economic rent of the subject taxable possessory interest.
 
(Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 18 § 21(e)(3)(C)(a).)  
 
C.        The
Assessments and Prior Proceedings 
 
In
2010, the Assessor valued Time Warner’s possessory interests for the relevant
time period, as well as a new base year value for Time Warner’s acquired
franchises as of July 31, 2006. (AR 2237, 2195-2196; see Opening Brief
(“OB”) 7:14 and Oppo. 8, fn. 1.)  The
Assessor valued Time Warner’s possessory interests based on the economic rent
derived from five percent of Time Warner’s revenue in providing all three
services (television, internet, and telephone). (AR 2215, 2242-2244.)  The Assessor did not attribute any portion of
the economic rent to the nontaxable right to do business.  (AR 2246-2248.)
 
Time
Warner paid the assessed taxes and commenced refund proceedings before the
Board to contest the Assessor’s valuation.  (AR 2237.) 
In 2013, the Board issued a decision finding against Time Warner on all
grounds.  (AR 2237, 2194-2230.)  Time Warner challenged the Board’s 2013
decision in a tax refund action filed in Los Angeles Superior Court.  (AR 2237, 234.)  
 
In
2015, the court (Marmaro, J.) reversed the Board’s decision to uphold the
Assessor’s valuation of Time Warner’s possessory interests based on television,
internet, and telephone services.   (AR 2237.) 
The trial court reasoned that “local franchising authorities may not
charge cable companies rents for their possessory interests that exceed 5
percent of cable television revenue” and, therefore, the Assessor’s valuation method
“does not reflect the property’s fair market value.”  (AR 241.) 
The trial court ordered the Board “to value the possessory interest
using solely cable television revenue, as reflected by actual price of the
possessory interest.”  (AR 2237, 258.)  The trial court also reversed the Board’s
finding that five percent of internet and phone revenue represented the fair
market value of the possessory interest in providing those services.  (AR 2237.) 
 The trial court instructed the
Board to allocate “some portion of this 5 percent to the intangible and
untaxable rights conferred by the franchise[.]”  (AR 258.)
 
D.        The
District Court of Appeal’s Decision 
 
The
Assessor and Time Warner both appealed the trial court’s judgment.  (AR 3212.) 
There were four issues on appeal: (1) Whether the Assessor may include
revenue from the broadband and telephone service in valuing Time Warner’s
possessory interest; (2) Whether substantial evidence supported the Assessor’s
valuation; (3) Whether the Assessor erred by failing to allocate some portion
of the economic rent to the intangible assets of Time Warner’s cable system;
and (4) Whether the Assessor properly assumed a ten-year term of possession
with respect to 49 of Time Warner’s acquired possessory interests.
 
The
District Court of Appeal held that the Assessor may include revenue from
broadband and telephone service in valuing the possessory interests. (AR
2242.)  The Court of Appeal reasoned as
follows: 
 
The subject
possessory interests generate a considerable amount of revenue for Time Warner
beyond what they receive from providing television services, and we find no
legal restriction on the County assessing property taxes on this added value.
Accordingly, we conclude that the added value that Time Warner enjoys by using
the possessory interests to provide telephone and broadband services is not
beyond the reach of property tax assessment. After all, it is well settled that
the absence of an actual market for a particular type of property does not mean
that it has no value or that it may escape from the constitutional mandate that
“all property ... shall be taxed in proportion to its value” (Art. XIII,§ 1)
but only that the assessor must then use such pertinent factors as replacement
costs and income analyses for determining “valuation.”  (AR 2243-2244 [additional internal quotation
marks omitted].)  
 
Accordingly,
the District Court of Appeal “reverse[d] the trial court's ruling that the
Assessor can only value the possessory interests by capitalizing the franchise
fee.”  (AR 2244.)  Second, the Court of Appeal held that “no
substantial evidence supported the Assessor’s determination that five percent
of gross income from all three income streams represented the fair market value
of the possessory interests during the relevant time period.”  (AR 2245.) 
Third, the District Court of Appeal held that the Assessor erred by
failing to allocate some portion of the economic rent to the nontaxable right
to do business.  (AR 2246-2248.)  Finally, the District Court of Appeal
affirmed the trial court’s decision to uphold “the Board’s use of a 10-year,
non-declining term when valuing 49 of Time Warner's Acquired Possessory
Interests.”  (AR 259.)[1]
 
The
Court of Appeal remanded the matter to the trial court with directions to
remand the matter to the Board.  The
Court of Appeal’s disposition states: “Consistent with this opinion, the Board
shall determine the value of the possessory interests in providing broadband
and telephone services, and shall allocate some portion of the economic rent to
the intangible rights and assets of Time Warner's cable system.”  (AR 2251.)
 


 
E.         The Hearing before
the Board in October 2022
 
In
October 2022, the Board held a four-day hearing on the remanded issues.  Both parties introduced testimony and
documentary evidence.  Collectively, the
Board heard testimony from six witnesses, and the parties introduced numerous
exhibits.  (See AR
3208-3209.)  At the hearing, the Assessor
and Time Warner sought to prove the economic rent of the possessory interests
by introducing evidence of contract rents paid for comparable taxable
possessory interests, as permitted by Rule 21. 
(See Oppo. 12; Cal. Code Regs., tit. 18 § 21(e)(3)(C)(a).)  
 
1.         The Assessor’s Contract Rents
Comparables 
 
The
Assessor’s appraiser, Darren Kwok, summarized the Assessor’s evidence for the
valuation of the possessory interests as follows: 
 
Since no
comparable rents could be found in the State of California after to 2002, rent
comparables from other states were selected. Franchise agreements and city ordinances
for broadband and telephone services from other states indicated a percentage
fee or rent ranging from 5 percent to 8 percent for the use of cities'
right-of-way.  The majority of the fees
and rents were at 5 percent of gross revenue which supports the Assessor's use
of the 5 percent rents for broadband and telephone service. 
 
(AR
2922 [Tr. 1847].)  
 
The
Assessor presented 21 comparables (or “comps”) from other states to support an
economic rent of five percent of revenue for providing internet and telephone
services.  (AR 2318-2319.)  The Assessor’s comps, all of which were for
either internet or telephone services (not cable television), involved
percentage fees or rent ranging from five to eight precent paid by the
companies for the right to provide those services over public
rights-of-way.  (See AR 2922,
2318-2319.)  Kwok testified that he
located the comps using a Google search; he did not use any other sources to
find comps; and he could not find any comparable rents from the State of
California.  (AR 2935-2936, 2922.)
 
Time
Warner objected to 15 of the 21 comps on the grounds that they were
“significantly past our lien -- our valuation dates.”  (AR 2925 [Tr. 1857].)  The Board sustained Time Warner’s objection
to the post-lien-date comps and excluded them from evidence.  (Ibid.)  As a result, the Assessor was left with only six
comps.  (See AR 2318-2319.)  
 
2.         Time Warner’s Contract Rents
Comparables 
 
At
the October 2022 hearing, Time Warner asserted that its franchise agreements
granted two rights: (1) The right to lay cable in public rights of way and (2) The
right to conduct business, which includes the right to provide all three
services: cable television, internet, and telephone.  Time Warner referred to these two rights as
the “Bundle of Rights.”  (AR 3213; see
AR 772-774 and AR 2869 [testimony of Deborah Picciolo].)  
 
Time
Warner’s appraiser at the Board hearing was Jim Pike, a real estate appraiser
with Cushman & Wakefield.  Pike
summarized the income valuation approach used by Time Warner, including the
final step of allocating the value of providing internet and telephone services.[2]  (AR 2885 [tr. 1706]; see also AR
1841-1843 [Cushman & Wakefield appraisal report].)  Pike then testified that based on his search,
he found 25 rent comps, all negotiated between 2004 and 2008. (AR 2886 [Tr.
1708-1709], 1741, 1808-1811.)  Pike
testified that all 25 of the comps provided the same bundle of rights as Time
Warner’s franchises, i.e., the right to do business and the right to use
the public rights of way.  (AR 2886 [Tr.
1709].)  All 25 comps conferred the right
to provide cable television, internet, and telephone services.  (AR 2886-2887, 2906-2907.)  Many were held by Time Warner’s competitors in
Los Angeles, including Verizon and AT&T. (AR 2886 [Tr. 1710].) All the
comps had contract rents that were five percent of cable television (or
“video”) revenues, except for one (Anaheim), which charged no rent at all.  (AR 2886-2887.) None of the comps had a rent
that was based on revenues from internet or telephone services. (Ibid.; see
AR 1809-1812.)  Pike opined that the
franchise agreements proved that, in the pertinent market, “the economic rent
for the right to provide cable, telephone and internet was 5 percent of cable
only.”  (AR 2886 [Tr. 1709].)  In other words, the economic rent for the
entire “bundle of rights” was “5 percent of cable revenue only.”  (AR 2888 [Tr. 1715] and AR 1745,
1812-1813.)  
 
3.         The Value of the Intangible Right to Do
Business 
 
The
Assessor and Time Warner both presented evidence related to the second remand
issue, i.e. the allocation of some portion of the economic rent to the nontaxable
right to do business.  (See OB
12-13 and Oppo. 18-21, citing the record.) 
In summary, “the Assessor found that 4.75% (or 95% x 5%) is the economic
rent attributable to [Time Warner’s] taxable possessory interests.”  (OB 13:1-2, citing AR 2314.)  In contrast, Time Warner “valued its right to
do business on the basis of its marketing expenses on the theory that marketing
is how a company exploits its right to do business.”  (OB 13:5-6, citing AR 1820.)  The relevant evidence is set forth in the
Discussion section below.  
 
F.         The
Board’s Decision After Remand 
 
The
Board issued its decision on June 26, 2023. 
The Board stated that the Assessor bore the burden of proof on all
issues.  This was for two reasons: First,
because the Assessor served a “raise letter’ on Time Warner seeking to increase
the originally assessed value of the possessory interests and, second, because
the Assessor did not use the franchise fee as the economic rent. (AR 3232.)
 
On
the issue of economic rent, the Board found that the Assessor’s six
out-of-state comps were not sufficiently near in time to the valuation dates
and/or subject to different legally enforceable restrictions due to the
out-of-state locations, among other reasons.  (AR 3235-3238.)  In contrast, the Board found that Time
Warner’s 25 comparables were “superior” to the Assessor’s six comps because
they were: (1) all located in Southern California; (2) were subject to the same
legally enforceable government restrictions; (3) were from the same time period
as the lien dates at issue; (4) they conveyed the same rights as Time Warner’s
possessory interests and had the same physical attributes; (5) most involved
“exactly the same real estate”; and (6) they were all “negotiated in an open
and competitive marke[t] as required by Rule 21.”  (AR 3239.) 
The Board concluded that “the economic rent was 5% of video revenue
only” and “the economic rent paid by the Applicant and its competitors gave
them the right to occupy the right of way to deliver all three services of
Internet. Telephone and Video.”  (AR 3240.)  The Board stated that it “cannot infer an
economic rent where none exists.”  (Ibid.)
 
On
the issue of Time Warner’s intangible right to do business, the Board rejected
the Assessor’s franchise fee methodology and adopted Time Warner’s marketing
methodology.  (AR 3243-3247.)  However, the Board rejected Time Warner’s 36
percent profit margin figure because it was for all of Time Warner’s marketing
activity, and not the activity attributable to Time Warner’s nontaxable right
to do business.  (AR 3247.) Therefore,
“[i]n the absence of more reliable data to show a separate income stream attributable
to the intangible marketing activity[,]” the Board reduced the profit margin in
half and assigned 18 percent as the profit margin for valuing the right to do
business.  (Ibid.)  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), an abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)  
 
As an agency of constitutional origin, the Board’s
factual determinations are entitled to the same deference and respect due a
judicial decision.  Review of a board determination may therefore involve
two distinct standards. Where it is claimed the Board applied an improper
method of valuing a taxpayer's assets, this presents a question of law. We
determine whether the challenged method of valuation is arbitrary, in excess of
discretion, or in violation of the standards prescribed by law.  Where it is claimed instead the Board
erroneously applied a proper method of valuation, the decision may be
overturned only when no substantial evidence supports it.
 
(Shubat v.
Sutter County Assessment Appeals Board (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 794, 800-801
[internal citations and quotation marks omitted].)  
 
Substantial evidence is relevant evidence that a reasonable mind might
accept as adequate to support a conclusion, per California Youth Authority v. State Personnel Board (2002) 104 Cal.
App. 4th 575, 584-85, or evidence of ponderable legal significance which is
reasonable in nature, credible, and of solid value.  (See Mohilef
v. Janovici (1996) 51 Cal. App. 4th 267, 305 n. 28.)  “Courts may reverse an [administrative]
decision only if, based on the evidence …, a reasonable person could not reach
the conclusion reached by the agency.”  (Sierra Club v. California Coastal Commission
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 602, 610.)   
 
“When a reviewing court applies the substantial evidence standard, it
must review the whole record to determine whether it supports the
judgment.  [Citation.] It may not confine
its consideration to isolated bits of evidence.”  (Dreyer’s Grand
Ice Cream, Inc. v. County of Kern (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 828, 840.)  However, when the petitioner challenges “the
sufficiency of the evidence, all material evidence on the point must be set
forth and not merely [its] own evidence.”  (Toigo v. Town of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th
309, 317.)  “Failure to do so amounts to
waiver of the alleged error and we may presume that the record contains
evidence to sustain every finding of fact.”  (Ibid.; accord Desmond v. County of Contra Costa (1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 330, 335-336 [“it is presumed that the findings and actions of the
administrative agency were supported by substantial evidence”].)  
 
The court exercises its independent judgment on question of law arising
in mandate proceedings, such as the interpretation of a statute or
regulation.  (See Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  
 
DISCUSSION  
 
A.        The Assessor Bore the
Burden of Proof on All Valuation Issues 
 
When
the Assessor seeks a higher value than the one placed on the assessment roll,
the burden shifts to the Assessor to prove the higher value.  (AR 2238, citing Cal. Code Regs., tit. 18 § 313(f).)  In addition, the Assessor bore the burden of
proof because the Assessor did not use the franchise fee as the economic rent.  (AR 3232; see also AR 2241 and Rev.
& Tax. Code § 107.7(b)(2).)  In this
case, the Board found “the Assessor did not present sufficient evidence for the
Board to determine a rent that was based on Internet and Telephone
revenues.”  (AR 3240.)  
 
With
respect to the valuation of the right to do business, the Board found that “the
Assessor’s methodology failed to exclude all of the value of the intangible
assets and rights at Time Warner and is contrary to Statue, Case Law and SBE
guidance.”  (AR 3243.)  In other words, the Board found that the
Assessor did not meet his burden of proof on the valuation issues that were
remanded by the Court of Appeal.  
 
[W]here the issue
on appeal turns on a failure of proof at trial, the question for a reviewing
court becomes whether the evidence compels a finding in favor of the appellant
as a matter of law.  Specifically, the
question becomes whether the appellant’s evidence was (1) uncontradicted and
unimpeached and (2) of such a character and weight as to leave no room for a
judicial determination that it was insufficient to support a finding.
 
(Dreyer’s
Grand Ice Cream, Inc. v. County of Kern (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 828,
838.)  
 
The
Assessor contends that this standard of review does not apply “[w]hen a trial
court reviews an administrative agency’s decision for substantial evidence
under §1094.5.”  (Reply 11:7-8.)  The Assessor does not explain why that would
be the case or cite any authority that supports his position.  Under section 1094.5, the trial court
effectively sits in an appellate capacity. 
Accordingly, the standard of review from Dreyer’s Grand Ice Cream,
which also concerned an assessment decision of the Board, is equally
applicable on writ review to any factual issues.[3] 
 
            B.        The Board’s Economic Rent Findings Are
Supported by Substantial Evidence and 
                        Are
Not Legally Erroneous 
 
                        1.         The Board
Correctly Interpreted the District Court of Appeal’s Decision 
 
The Assessor contends that the Board’s valuation of the
possessory interests based on cable service alone did not comply with the Court
of Appeal’s remand order and was legal error under the law of the case
doctrine.  (See OB 18-19.)  The Assessor reads the District Court of
Appeal’s decision to require the Board, on remand, to “determine
the value of the possessory interests in providing broadband and telephone
services.”  (OB 19:1-6, citing AR
2245-2246.)  The Assessor highlights the
dispositional language of the Court’s decision, which states in pertinent part:
 
We reverse
the trial court’s order directing the Board to value the possessory interests based
only on five percent of cable television revenue.  In all other respects, the judgment is
affirmed.  The matter is remanded to the
trial court with directions to remand the matter to the Board.  Consistent with this opinion, the Board
shall determine the value of the possessory interests in providing broadband
and telephone services . . . .
 
(AR 2251, emphasis added.) 

 
            This
dispositional language “must be read in conjunction with the opinion as a
whole.”  (Ayyad v. Sprint Spectrum,
L.P. (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 851, 859.) 
Further, as Time Warner argues, the context for the District Court of
Appeal’s decision is important.  (Oppo.
28.)  In the prior proceedings, Time
Warner had argued (and the trial court held) that the rent had to be based solely
on the franchise fee and that rent could not be based on
internet and telephone revenues.  (See
AR 240-241,
258, 2237.)  The District Court of Appeal
rejected that conclusion and found that “[t]he Assessor may
include revenue from broadband and telephone service in valuing the possessory
interest.” (AR 2242, emphasis added.)[4]  The Court reasoned that “the absence of an
actual market for a particular type of property does not mean that it has no
value or that it may escape from the constitutional mandate that ‘all property
... shall be taxed in proportion to its value’ (Art. XIII,§ 1).”  (AR 2243-2244.)  In the next section of the decision, the District
Court of Appeal also held that “no substantial evidence supported the Assessor’s
determination that five percent of gross income from all three income streams
represented the fair market value of the possessory interests during the
relevant time period.”  (AR 2245.)   The Court’s dispositional language must be
read in this context.  
 
In response to the
Assessor’s contention that a valuation based solely on rent from cable
television services “contradicts” the District Court of Appeal’s remand order,
the Board stated: 
 
The Board finds that the Court of Appeal and the
remand order stated that Broadband and Telephone revenues may be included, only
if substantiated by evidence.  The Board
finds the Assessor did not present sufficient evidence for the Board to
determine a rent that was based on Internet and Telephone revenues.  Based on the evidence presented by both
parties, the Board finds that the economic rent was 5% of video revenue
only.  The Board finds the economic rent
paid by the Applicant and its competitors gave them the right to occupy the
right of way to deliver all three services of Internet, Telephone and
Video.    
 
(AR 3240.)  The Board did not err in this regard.  The Assessor has not shown that the Board’s
decision on remand is contrary to the law of the case.  The Court of Appeal held that the Assessor
had the burden of proof and that any valuation method needed to be supported by
substantial evidence.  (See AR
2238-2245.)  Contrary to the Assessor’s
position, the District Court of Appeal did not hold that the Board was required
to determine the economic rent of the possessory interests based on internet and telephone revenues or based on any
specific valuation method.  To the
contrary, the Court directed the Board to determine—based on the evidence—the “full
value” of the possessory interests, including the internet and telephone
services.  (AR 2239-2240, 2251.)  The Assessor did not present sufficient
evidence.  Accordingly, the issue for
review is whether the Board’s findings and valuation on remand are supported by
substantial evidence.  
 
                        2.         Substantial
Evidence Supports the Board’s Findings that the Assessor’s Six Comparables Were
Not Entitled to Any Weight 
 
The Board found
that the Assessor’s first three comps were not entitled to any weight in the
valuation of the economic rent for the internet and telephone services because
they were not negotiated sufficiently near in time to the valuation dates, were
from jurisdictions outside California, and were subject to different legally
enforceable government restrictions.  (AR
3236-3237.)  The Board found that the
Assessor’s fourth, fifth, and sixth comps were not entitled to any weight
because they were from jurisdictions outside California and were subject to
different legally enforceable government restrictions.  (AR 3236-3238.)  
 
Substantial
evidence supports these findings.  The
valuation dates for Time Warner’s possessory interests are between January 1,
2005, through January 1, 2008. (AR 2195-2196; see OB 7:14.)  The Assessor’s first three comps were executed
in 1986, 1995, and 1996 in Chicago, Illinois; Tucson, Arizona; and Portland,
Oregon, respectively.  (AR 2318.)  As the Assessor’s appraiser, Darren Kwok,
conceded on cross-examination, these comps were not executed even remotely “near
in time” to Time Warner’s franchise agreements. 
(AR 2937-2939.)  These comps were
from jurisdictions outside California and the Board could reasonably conclude,
as it did, that these comps did not meet Rule 21’s requirement of a “reasonably
comparable” location.  Kwok also admitted
that he did not know if the first three comps were subject to the same legally
enforceable restrictions as the Time Warner properties.  (AR 2937-2939; see e.g. Tr. 1903 [“Q.
Do you know if Chicago has the same legally enforceable restrictions as the
subject franchise agreements? A. I don’t know”].)  
 
The Assessor’s fourth,
fifth, and sixth comps, respectively, were from 2001, 2003, and 2007, and were located
in Portland, Oregon; City of Junction, Oregon; and Eugene, Oregon.   (AR 2318.) 
These comps were from jurisdictions outside California and the Board
could reasonably conclude, as it did, that these comps did not meet Rule 21’s
requirements of “reasonably comparable” locations and legally enforceable restrictions.  Kwok also admitted that he did not know if these
comps were subject to the same legally enforceable restrictions as the Time
Warner properties.  (AR 2939-2941.)  
 
The Assessor does
not show any prejudicial abuse of discretion in the Board’s finding that these comps
were subject to different legally enforceable government restrictions than Time
Warner’s franchise agreements.  (See OB
22-23, discussing City of Chicago v. Chicago Fiber Optic Corp. (1997)
287 Ill.App.3d 566.)  Notably, the
Chicago comp that the Assessor highlights was from 20 years before the earlier
valuation date and was not remotely “near in time.”  As shown in the City of Chicago decision
and in Kwok’s testimony, the 1986 Chicago contract was subject to an option
invoked in 1992, which changed the fee from 8 percent to 3 percent.  (AR 2938 [Tr. 1904-1905].)  Kwok admitted he did not “know the details”
of the original agreement or the option. 
(Ibid.)  
 
The sixth comp—from
Eugene, Oregon—was the “the only comp presented by the Assessor that involves a
fee for Internet Services.”  (AR
3237.)  In addition to the reasons
specified above, the Board did not give this comp any weight because: (1) the
Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) “held the fee preempted under federal
law, a decision that was later affirmed on appeal by the federal courts”; (2) A
“legally invalid fee imposed by an Oregon municipality is not the same as a fee
negotiated in an open and competitive marker, as required by Rule 21”; and (3) A
“single sale does not provide conclusive market data.”  (AR 3237-3238.)
 
At the remand
hearing, Time Warner presented testimony of Mark Swan, a vice president and tax
counsel for Charter Communications, that the Eugene fee at issue in the sixth
comp was not the product of a consensual transaction but was instead imposed illegally
by the City of Eugene. (AR 2953 [Tr. 1965:4-13].) The fee was challenged under
federal law and was eventually declared unlawful by the FCC in a decision that
was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  (AR 2954-2956 [Tr. 1968-1977].)  As a result, no company is paying the fee.  (AR 2955 [Tr. 1975:3-11].)  This evidence is substantial in nature and
sufficient to support the Board’s findings for the sixth comp.  Further, the Assessor concedes that the
Eugene fee was invalidated by the FCC, as affirmed in City of Eugene, Oregon
v. FCC (6th Cir. 2021) 988 F.3d 701, 715-716, and that none of the other comps
involved a fee for internet services. 
(OB 24:9-25.)  It was reasonable
for the Board to give no weight to the sixth comp under such circumstances.  The Assessor’s remaining arguments, although
considered, do not persuade the court that the Board erred, in any respect, in
its findings for the sixth comp.  (OB
24-25.)  
 
Based on the
foregoing, substantial evidence supports the Board’s findings that the
Assessor’s six comps were not entitled to any weight in the valuation of
economic rent pursuant to Rule 21.  
 
            3.         The Assessor Does Not Show a Prejudicial Abuse of Discretion in the
Board’s Exclusion of the Assessor’s Post-Valuation-Date Comparables
 
The Assessor contends that the Board erroneously excluded
the Assessor’s remaining 15 comps and that the court should augment the
administrative record to include those comps. 
(OB 20-21 and Motion to Augment (“MTA”).)  Time Warner objected to the remaining 15
of the Assessor’s 21 comps on the grounds that they were “significantly past
our lien -- our valuation dates.”  Time
Warner’s counsel explained that “no one would have known about those” during
the relevant valuation dates starting on January 1, 2006.  (AR 2925 [Tr. 1857].)  The Board sustained Time Warner’s objection
to the post-lien-date comps and excluded them from evidence.  (Ibid.)  
 
At
the remand hearing, the Assessor and Time Warner sought to prove the economic
rent of the possessory interests by introducing evidence of contract rents paid
for comparable taxable possessory interests. 
Thus, pursuant to Rule 21, the Assessor needed to prove that “the contract rents shall have been
negotiated sufficiently near in time to the valuation date as to shed
light on the economic rent of the subject taxable possessory interest.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 18 §21(e)(3)(C)(a)
[bold italics added].)  The 15 comps excluded
by the Board had effective dates starting November 2011 and after and,
therefore, had effective dates ranging from about 4 to 11 years after the
latest valuation date of January 1, 2008. 
(See AR 2318-2319.)  These
15 comps were not “near in time” to the valuation dates. 
 
The Board’s decision to exclude the 15 comps is
well-supported by property tax rules and case law.  The Board may exclude evidence that is not
“relevant.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 18 §
313.)  Generally, an assessment should be
based on facts known at the time of valuation. 
(See Glovis America, Inc. v. County of Ventura (2018) 28
Cal.App.5th 62, 70.)  This rule applies
to the income method of valuation. 
Indeed, Rule 8, which sets forth “The Income Approach to Value,” provides
that the income stream to be capitalized is the amount “a reasonably well
informed owner and reasonably well informed buyers may anticipate on the
valuation date.”  (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 18 §8(c) [emphasis added].)  While
Rule 21 does not categorically bar the consideration of post-valuation comps,
the “sufficiently near in time” language authorizes the Board, in its
discretion, to exclude comps negotiated years and in some cases decades
after the valuation date.  The Board
could reasonably conclude, as it did, that the 15 comps were not relevant
because they were not negotiated
“sufficiently near in time to the valuation date as to shed light on the
economic rent of the subject taxable possessory interest.”  
 
The Assessor also
fails to show a likelihood that any of the excluded comps would have made a
difference to the outcome.  “[T]he
improper admission or rejection of evidence at an administrative hearing does
not provide grounds for reversal unless the error has resulted in a miscarriage
of justice.  In other words, it must be
reasonably probable a more favorable result would have been reached absent the
error.”  (Thornbrough v. Western Placer Unified School
Dist. (2013) 223 Cal.App.4th 169, 200, internal citation and quotation
marks omitted.)  Here, there were
only three post-valuation date comps within even five years of any of the
valuation dates.  (AR 2318.) All three
were, like the Assessor’s other comps, from Oregon, and suffered the same
defects that the Board identified with respect to the Assessor’s other Oregon comps,
which are discussed above.  Further, all
15 comps were from jurisdictions outside California and there is no reason to
believe that any had legally enforceable government restrictions that were
reasonably comparable to Time Warner’s franchise agreements.  Given the Board’s ruling against the
Assessor’s other comps, it is not reasonably probable that a more favorable
result would have been reached even if the Board had not excluded the 15 comps.  The court need not reach the issue whether
the records at issue were actually “excluded” by the Board.    
 
            The Assessor’s
remaining arguments related to the excluded comps are not persuasive.  Comps significantly after January 1, 2008,
are not relevant.  By contrast, Time Warner’s comps were all from the valuation period of
2005 to 2008 and had other similarities to Time Warner’s franchise
agreements.  Thus, the Board could
consider Time Warner’s comps under Rule 21. 
(OB 21:5-15; see AR 1809-1810.)  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Assessor does not show any
prejudicial abuse of discretion in the Board’s exclusion of the Assessor’s
post-valuation-date comps.  The
Assessor’s motion to augment the administrative record with the 15 excluded comps
is denied.
 
                        4.         Time Warner’s Witness Testimony,
Appraisal Report, and Comps Constitute Substantial Evidence 
 
At
the remand hearing, Time Warner presented evidence that its rights to occupy
the rights of way were non-exclusive, meaning any qualified applicant could
also obtain a franchise to occupy the right of way and provide the same
services.  (AR 2869 [Tr. 1642.)  Time Warner also presented evidence that the
valuation years at issue coincided with an expansion of new entrants into the
market for cable television, internet, and telephone services.  In or about 2004, Verizon began obtaining
franchises in Southern California to offer cable television, internet, and
telephone services, which were advertised as “Triple Play.”  (AR 2873, 2877.)  Not long thereafter, AT&T, another “formidable
competitor,” began acquiring franchises and offering “Triple Play” services in
Southern California.  (AR 2878.)  By 2008, AT&T and Verizon were providing
services to more than three million customers in California. (AR 2881.)  
 
Time
Warner’s appraiser, Jim Pike, presented 25 rent comps, all negotiated between
2004 and 2008. (AR 2886 [Tr. 1708-1709], 1741, 1808-1811.)  Pike testified that all 25 of the comps  provided the same bundle of rights as Time
Warner’s franchises, i.e., the right to do business and the right to use
the public rights of way.  (AR 2886 [Tr.
1709].)  All 25 comps conferred the right
to provide cable television, internet, and telephone services.  (AR 2886-2887, 2906-2907.)  Many were held by Time Warner’s competitors in
Los Angeles, including Verizon and AT&T.  (AR 2886 [Tr. 1710].) All the comps had
contract rents that were five percent of cable television (or “video”) revenues,
except for one (Anaheim), which charged no rent at all.  (AR 2886-2887.) None of the comps had a rent
that was based on revenues from internet or telephone services. (Ibid.; see
AR 1809-1812.)  Pike opined that the
franchise agreements proved that, in the pertinent market, “the economic rent
for the right to provide cable, telephone and internet was 5 percent of cable
only.”  (AR 2886 [Tr. 1709].)  In other words, the economic rent for the
entire “bundle of rights” was “5 percent of cable revenue only.”  (AR 2888 [Tr. 1715] and AR 1745,
1812-1813.)  
 
The
Board found, and substantial evidence supports, that Time Warner’s 25 comps
satisfied the requirements of Rule 21. 
Specifically, Time Warner’s comps were from the same time period as the
lien dates at issue; they were subject to the same legally enforceable
government restrictions; they conveyed the same rights as the subject
properties and had the same physical attributes; they had similar or the same
terms of possession and risk of cancellation; and they were negotiated in an
open and competitive market.  (AR
3239.)  As the Board noted, many of the comps
were executed with Time Warner’s main competitors in Southern California,
Verizon and AT&T.  (Ibid.)  
 
As
discussed, the Assessor had the burden of proof and presented no evidence to
determine the value of the possessory interest in providing internet and
telephone services.  In the absence of
such evidence, the Board could reasonably conclude—based on the 25 comps,
Pike’s testimony, and the Cushman & Wakefield appraisal report—that the
economic rent for Time Warner’s possessory interests “was 5% of video revenue
only.”  (AR 3240.)  
 
5.         The Assessor’s Forfeited its Remaining
Argument 
 
The
Assessor challenges the Board’s finding that there was not sufficient evidence to
determine a rent based on internet and telephone revenues, arguing that this
finding “is itself unsupported by substantial (or any) evidence, and should be
vacated.”  (OB 28; see AR
3240.)  The Assessor cites evidence from
the remand hearing—submitted by Time Warner—that the three services are delivered in
a similar manner and face similar “levels of competition.”  (OB 27-28.) 
Based on this evidence, the Assessor contends that the Board “could and
should have” determined the economic rent for internet and telephone services
to be five percent of revenues.  (OB
26:10-21.)  The Assessor did not raise
these arguments during the proceedings before the Board.  The Assessor offered only his comps in
support of his proposed valuation of economic rent. (See AR 2313, 2946 [Tr.
1937].)  At no time did the Assessor
argue that the economic rent should be based on five percent of revenues for
each service because they are delivered in the same manner or face similar
“levels of competition.”  Accordingly,
the Assessor failed to exhaust his administrative remedies with respect to those
arguments and forfeited them.  (Williams
& Fickett v. County of Fresno (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1258, 1268; see also
Dobos v. Voluntary Plan Administrators, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 678,
688 [“Judicial review in an administrative mandamus action brought pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5 is
limited to issues raised in the proceedings before the administrative
agency”].)  Further, as Time Warner
argues, “substantial evidence review asks whether there is substantial evidence
to support the trier of fact’s determination, not whether there is substantial
evidence to support a contrary determination.” 
(Oppo. 32:6-8; Pope v. Babick (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1238,
1245.)  The Assessor ignores this rule in
his new arguments about the “same levels of competition.”    
 
In reply, the
Assessor states that its “comps were from outside California because the
Opinion directed the Board to value TWC’s possessory interests in providing
internet and telephone . . . and there were no internet/telephone comps in
California.”  (Reply 11:12-14.)  As discussed, the Court of Appeal did not
direct the Board to value Time Warner’s possessory interests in providing
internet and telephone services in any specific way.  The Assessor was not bound by the District Court
of Appeal’s decision to prove the economic rent for these services based on
contract rents comps.  Accordingly, the
Assessor’s complaint that “there were no internet/telephone comps in California”
is not persuasive and does not prove any prejudicial abuse of discretion in the
Board’s findings after remand.
 
6.         Summary of the Court’s Ruling on the
Board’s Economic Rent Findings 
 
In summary, substantial evidence supports the Board’s findings
that the Assessor’s six comps were not entitled to any weight in the valuation
of economic rent pursuant to Rule 21.  The Assessor does not show any prejudicial abuse of
discretion in the Board’s exclusion of the Assessor’s post-valuation-date comps.  Because all the Assessor’s comps were
entitled to no weight or were properly excluded, and because the Assessor did
not attempt to prove the economic rent in other ways, substantial evidence
supports the Board’s finding that the Assessor “has not presented any evidence
within the requirements of Rule 21 to demonstrate an economic rent for the
Internet and Telephone services.”  (AR
3240.)  Accordingly, the Assessor failed
to meet his burden of proof on that valuation issue.  Moreover, Time Warner’s evidence, submitted
at the remand hearing, was substantial and supports the Board’s economic rent
findings.  The Assessor’s petition is
denied to the extent it challenges the Board’s economic rent findings.  (See Petition for Writ of Mandate ¶¶
19-27.)
 
B.        The Board’s Valuation of the Intangible
Right To Do Business 
 
            1.         The Board’s Findings on Remand
 
To
determine the value of Time Warner’s nontaxable right to do business, the
Assessor used the five percent franchise fee as the starting point and opined
that “4.75% (or 95% x 5%) is the rent attributable to [Time Warner’s] right to
use the public rights-of-way.”  (AR 2314;
see also AR 2923 [Tr. 1849-1850].) 
In contrast, Time Warner valued its right to do business by estimating
the income generated by its marketing expenses. 
(See AR 1750-1777, 1820, 2890-2894.)  
 
The
Board rejected the Assessor’s method of valuing the right to do business on the
grounds that it conflicted with statute, case law, and the guidance from the
State Board of Equalization (“SBE”). 
Specifically, the Board stated:
 
[A] deduction for
franchise fees as the only quantifiable intangible value in the real property
possessory interest is insufficient to account for all the intangible rights
and assets associated with an operating company. Furthermore, the Assessor did
not attribute an income to the stream to the intangible right to do business as
stated in the Elk Hills and Half Moon Bay rulings….
 
The Board finds
the Assessor’s methodology contrary to the persuasive guidance and instruction
from SBE in AH502 (p.162) which states: "The value of intangible assets
and rights cannot be removed by merely deducting the related expenses from the
income stream to be capitalized. Allowing a deduction for the associated
expense does not allow for a re tum on the capital expenditure .... " ….
 
[T]he Board finds
as advised by SBE in AH502, deducting a franchise fee from the operation
revenue while using the income generated by the business. does not exclude the
value of various intangible assets and rights utilized in the cable company's
business.
 
(AR
3243-3244.)  In contrast, the Board found
that Time Warner’s methodology “to identify and remove the value of exempt
intangibles conforms to the Elk Hills, and Half Moon Bay cases.”  (AR 3246.) 
However, the Board rejected Time Warner’s 36 percent profit margin
figure because it was for all of Time Warner’s marketing activity, and not the
activity attributable to Time Warner’s nontaxable right to do business.  (AR 3247.)  Therefore, “[i]n the absence of more reliable
data to show a separate income stream attributable to the intangible marketing
activity[,]” the Board reduced the profit margin in half and assigned 18
percent as the profit margin for valuing the right to do business.  (Ibid.)  
 
            2.         The
District Court of Appeal Opinion 
 
The Assessor
asserts that the law of the case doctrine required the Board, on remand, to use
“the franchise fee methodology already approved by the Opinion.”  (OB 29.) 
In fact, the District Court of Appeal merely held that the Assessor must
“allocate some portion of the economic rent to the intangible assets of Time
Carner’s cable system before taxing the possessory interests.”  (AR 2248.) 
The Court did not state how this allocation should be made or prescribe
any particular methodology.  Instead, the
Court remanded for the Board to determine what portion of the economic rent was
for the taxable possessory interest and what portion was for the nontaxable
right to do business. (AR 2251.)  Accordingly,
the Board’s decision to adopt Time Warner’s proposed methodology, over the
Assessor’s propose methodology, was not contrary to law of the case.
 
            3.         The Board Correctly Determined That the Assessor’s Method
for Valuing the Right to Do Business Was Invalid  
 
The Assessor contends that the Board committed legal error
when it found that the Assessor’s method for valuing the right to do business
was contrary to law.  (OB 36-38.)  Because the Assessor challenges the Board’s
determination of the validity of a valuation method, the Assessor raises a
question of law subject to de novo review.  (SHR St. Francis, LLC v. City and County
of San Francisco (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 622, 632.)  
 
In his appraisal report, the Assessor’s appraiser, Darren Kwok,
explained his method for valuing the right to do business as follows: 
 
[T]he
Assessor’s Office is removing 5% for intangible assets (franchise fee) from the
economic rent calculation.  Actual
revenue reports from the local franchising authority (LFA) indicate franchise
fees to be 5%. Per TWC’s SEC Form 10-K reports, “TWC generally passes the
franchise fee onto its subscribers, listing it as a separate item on the bill.”
 The franchise fee, however, is included
in their calculation of gross revenue for their rent to the city.  The franchise agreement is what gives TWC the
right to use the public rights-of-way and to operate a cable system within the
local jurisdiction.  By subtracting the
franchise fee from the gross revenue, we’ve removed the intangibles associated
with the right to do business. 
 
The
franchise fees amount to 5% of the 5% of the gross revenue collected by the
LFA. Therefore, only 95% of the 5% of the gross revenue is attributable to the
economic rent for the right to use the public rights-of-way.  The remaining 5% is an intangible that is
excluded from taxation, and thus, excluded from our rent calculation.  Another way of viewing this is that 4.75% (or
95% x 5%) is the rent attributable to TWC’s right to use the public
rights-of-way. See Addendum 2a and 2b.
 
(AR 2314; see also AR 2320-2321 [Addendums 2a and 2b].)  The Assessor also introduced a sample bill
into the record showing a “franchise fee” that was passed on to Time Warner’s
subscribers.  (AR 3242; see AR
2231-2232.)  The sample bill does not
indicate how the “franchise fee” was calculated.  
 
            After summarizing this evidence, the
Board rejected the Assessor’s methodology because it did not “account for all
the intangible rights and assets associated with an operating company.”  (AR 3243.) 
The Board cited SBE guidance providing as follows: “The value of
intangible assets and rights cannot be removed by merely deducting the related
expenses from the income stream to be capitalized. Allowing a deduction for the
associated expense does not allow for a return on the capital expenditure ....”  (AR 3244.) 
The Board also relied on two published appellate decisions that
considered the valuation of intangible assets: Elk Hills Power, LLC v. Board
of Equalization (2013) 57 Cal.4th 593 (“Elk Hills”) and SHC Half
Moon Bay, LLC v. County of San Manteo (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 471 (“Half
Moon Bay”).  (AR 3243-3244.)
 
As Time Warner shows in its opposition (see Oppo.
20), Addendums 2a and 2b to Kwok’s appraisal report are helpful in depicting numerically
the valuation method used by the Assessor. 
These addendums provide a sample of the Assessor’s franchise fee
calculations as applied to a City of Lawndale franchise agreement.  Below is a simplified version using gross
revenues of $100 as the revenue base (instead of $3,518,116.15 from the Lawndale
example).[5] 
 



Gross Revenues


 


$100




Less Franchise Fee


 


($5)




Revised Gross Revenue Base


 


$95




Economic Rent Attributable to:


 


 




Possessory Interest


$95 X 5% =


$4.75




Right to Do Business


$5 X 5% =


$0.25




% of Economic
  Rent Attributable to:


 


 




Possessory Interest


$4.75/$5.00


95%




Right to Do Business


$0.25/$5.00


5%



Thus, despite the
somewhat obscure explanation in the appraisal report, the Assessor’s method was
simple: Five percent of the franchise fee was allocated to the right to do
business, and 95 percent to the possessor interests.  (See Reply 18:5-6.)  
 
However, the Assessor lacked any economic or empirical
justification for this allocation.  In his appraisal
report, Kwok explained that the Assessor was “removing
5% for intangible assets (franchise fee) from the economic rent calculation”
because “[t]he franchise agreement is what gives [Time Warner] the right to ….
operate a cable system” and “[b]y subtracting the franchise fee from the gross
revenue, we’ve removed the intangibles associated with the right to do
business.”  (AR 2314.)  But Kwok did not explain how he determined
that it was reasonable to allocate five percent of the revenue base, as opposed
to some other percentage, to the right to do business.  
 
At the Board
hearing, Kwok was asked both on cross-examination and by Board members to
explain his valuation method.  Kwok was
unable to do so, as shown by this exchange on cross-examination:
 
Q. If we could all turn to page 3 of Exhibit 63 the
last sentence of the first full paragraph, Mr. Kwok states, “By subtracting the
franchise fee from the gross revenue, you remove the intangibles associated
with the right to do business.” Correct?
 
…. 
 
Q. There is no citation there, is there? 
 
A. No. 
 
Q. What is the legal authority for that statement? 
 
A. That's my opinion. 
 
Q. That's your opinion?
 
A. That's what I did.
 
(AR 2946 [Tr.
1938-1939].)
 
            Later, the following exchange
occurred between a Board member and Kwok:
 
Q.  They’re
telling us today that .25 percent of the amount that you are allocating is to
the right to do business and 4.75 percent is for the actual economic rent. That
is your .25 percent deduction. That’s your conclusion, okay. That's what you
are telling us. 
 
But we need to know what you are basing it on because
before the court wasn't happy with the County. The County was not clear on how
the apportionment came up with that number. So If we have a number from you,
that is fine. It's evidence. How did you get to that number? What are you
basing it on? It can't be out of thin air. Has to be based on something…. You
have to explain and be clear for the record how did you come up with the .25.
Can't just be “my opinion.” Why did you come up with that?
 
….[¶]
 
Q. How did you do
this calculation?
 
A. Sure. So on page 9 the first column shows the
franchise fee included in the gross revenue $177,030.59. Should be in red. 
 
Q. I see that. 
 
A. Okay. So – 
 
Q. How do you come up with that? 
 
A. That is what is reported to us from the agent's --
from the local franchising authorities.
….
Q. Why do you think it is only the franchise fee? Why
did you decide that? Why do you think it's only that amount that is an
intangible? 
 
A. Because the franchise fee is what gives the Time
Warner Cable in this instance the right to do business -- the right to use the
public right-of-way, and the right to do business. That franchise fee, that 5
percent, give them those rights.
 
(AR 2947 [Tr. 1942-1943].)
 
            In this testimony, Kwok acknowledges
that the franchise fee gives Time Warner two rights: the tangible right to use
the public right-of-way and the intangible right to do business.  Kwok also acknowledges that the franchise
fee, which is set at five percent of cable television revenues, is an expense
necessary to generate income from the possessory interests.  Kwok allocated five percent of the revenue
base to the intangible right to business, but, in his appraisal report and upon
questioning from the Board, he was unable to provide any economic or empirical
justification for this allocation.  Accordingly,
the Board correctly determined that the Assessor’s proposed valuation method
was contrary to case law and SBE guidance. 
(See AR 3243-3244 and Half Moon Bay, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at 492 [“the
Assessor’s reliance on the deduction of the … franchise fee—and its refusal to
identify and value certain intangible assets—is akin to paying ‘lip service to
the concept of exempting intangible assets from taxation,’ a practice condemned
in GTE Sprint.”].)
 
            The Assessor’s arguments are not
persuasive.  (OB 36-38.)  The District Court of Appeal directed the
Assessor to allocate some portion of the economic rent to Time Warner’s right
to do business, but the Court did not say how the allocation should be made or
prescribe any particular methodology.  (See
OB 36:7-9; AR 2246-2248.)  Even if
there were “no other intangible assets or rights” to be valued, it was not
legal error for the Board to find that the Assessor’s valuation method
conflicted with Elk Hills, Half Moon Bay, and SBE guidance.  (OB 36:27-38:7.)  “[I]ntangible assets and rights [that] ha[ve]
a quantifiable fair market value … must be deducted from an income stream
analysis prior to taxation.”  (Elk
Hills, supra, 57 Cal.4th at 618-619.) 
“The value of intangible assets and rights cannot be removed by merely
deducting the related expenses from the income stream to be capitalized.”  (AR 3244 [citing SBE guidance].)  
 
In summary, the
matter was remanded to the Board to determine what portion of the economic rent
was attributable to the taxable possessory interest and what portion was
attributable to the right to do business. 
That necessarily required the Assessor, who bore the burden of proof, to
evaluate the relative values of the two rights.  The Assessor’s method did not make any real
attempt to do that.  Accordingly, as a
matter of law, the Assessor’s valuation method was invalid and the Board
properly rejected it.  In the alternative,
to the extent any substantial evidence issue is presented, as the Assessor
suggests in reply (Reply 18:5-13), the Board’s decision to reject the
Assessor’s valuation method is supported by substantial evidence because the
Assessor did not provide sufficient data or factual support for that valuation
method.
 
4.         The Board Did Not Abuse its Discretion
in Adopting Time Warner’s “Marketing Method” for Valuing the Right to Do
Business
 
The Assessor contends that the Board erred when it adopted
Time Warner’s “marketing methodology” as the basis to value the right to do
business.  (OB 30-35.)  As discussed, the Board’s determination of
the validity of a valuation method is subject to de novo review.  (SHR St. Francis, supra, 94
Cal.App.5th at 632.)  However, “[w]here it is claimed
instead the Board erroneously applied a proper method of valuation, the
decision may be overturned only when no substantial evidence supports it.”  (Shubat, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at
800-801.)  Applying both standards, the
court concludes that the Board did not err. 

 
Time
Warner valued its right to do business by estimating the income generated by
its marketing expenses.  (See AR
1750-1777, 1820, 2890-2894.)  At the
Board hearing, Time Warner called Philip Jones, an appraiser with Cushman &
Wakefield specializing in the valuation of intangibles and businesses.  Jones testified that he applied the income
approach to valuation, which requires the appraiser to “identify the
intangible” and then “attribute [an] income stream to that intangible.”  (AR 2890 [Tr. 1723].)  Jones summarized his method for valuing the
right to business, as follows: 
 
Now, the way we did that … is determine what marketing
expenses and marketing efforts were made, then determine the income or profit
generated from those marketing efforts or expenses. And then finally … we did a
discounted cash flow taking those cash flows back to present value and give
them a discount rate.
 
(AR 2890 [Tr.
1723].)  Jones further explained that he
selected income from marketing because “marketing is the way you exploit your
business, you develop your business.”  (AR
2890 [Tr. 1724].)  
 
Jones surveyed
publicly available industry data to derive the expected marketing expenses for Time
Warner and its competitors and then applied a return on investment to those
expenses, also using publicly available industry data. (AR 1891 [Tr. 1727-1728],
1820-1825.) Based on financial reports of Time Warner and its competitors, Jones
determined that an owner of the franchise rights would be expected to incur
marketing expenses equal to 4 percent of revenue.  (AR 2893 [1735-1736], 1825-1827, 3246-3247.)  Based on surveys of profit margins for major
cable companies, Jones estimated that an owner of the franchise rights would
earn a profit margin of 36 percent and a profit as a percentage of expenses
equal to 56.25 percent. (AR 2893 [1735-1736], 1825-1827, 3246-3247.)  Using this information, Jones calculated an
income stream attributable to a prospective purchaser’s marketing activity.  (AR 2892-2893, 1825-1827.)  Jones then discounted the income stream to a
present value using a 10-year discounted cash flow analysis. (AR 2893-2894,
1825-1844.)  Using Jones’ values, Pike,
the appraiser, determined that the portion of the “bundle of rights,” i.e. cable
television, internet, and telephone services, attributable to the right to do
business varied between 36 percent and 38 percent depending on the year. (AR
2895 [Tr. 1743:22-1741:1]; AR 1772-1777, 1838-1844.)  Based on those percentages, Pike found that
the economic rent attributable to the right to do business was approximately
1.8 percent and the economic rent attributable to the possessory interests was
approximately 3.2 percent, resulting in a total economic rent of 5 percent for
the bundle of rights.  (AR 1843,
2895-2896.)  
            
The Board found
that the income approach used by Time Warner to identify and remove the value
of exempt intangibles was consistent with the methods used in prior intangible
cases, including Elk Hill, Half Moon Bay, and County of Stanislaus v.
Assessment Appeals Board (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1445 (“Stanislaus”).  (AR 3246.) 
The Board further found that income from marketing was an appropriate
income stream to capitalize and that all of the inputs Jones used to determine
that income stream were supported by the evidence, except for one.  (AR 3246-3247.)  Specifically, the Board found that the 36
percent profit margin was “due to the total marketing expense and not the
marketing expenses attributable to the possessory interest.”  (AR 3247.) 
The Board stated that “[i]n the absence of more reliable data to show a
separate income stream attributable to the intangible marketing activity the
Board will allow for half of the profit margin calculated by the Applicant as
attributable to the intangible marketing activity.”  (Ibid.)  
 
In challenging
these Board findings, the Assessor does not take issue with the general
valuation method used by Jones (the income approach), but rather with the
particular income stream he used, i.e., the income associated with
marketing a business.  In that respect,
the Assessor challenges the Board’s application of a proper method of
valuation, which is reviewed for substantial evidence.   (Shubat, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at
800-801.)  Substantial evidence supports
the Board’s decision to use the incremental income associated with marketing to
value the right to do business.  That
evidence includes, but is not limited to, the testimonies of Jones and Pike
summarized above, as well as the Cushman & Wakefield appraisal report.  (See e.g. AR 2893-2895, 1825-1844.)  Notably, in its briefing, the Assessor has
not discussed all material evidence related to the valuation of the right to do
business.  (See Toigo v. Town of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th
309, 317 [when the petitioner challenges “the sufficiency of the evidence, all
material evidence on the point must be set forth and not merely [its] own
evidence.”])  The Assessor also has not
challenged the accuracy of the calculations of value made by Time Warner’s
experts or cited any evidence, such as an expert report, conflicting with the
valuation opinions of Time Warner’s experts. 

 
            The Assessor argues that the
appellate decisions cited by the Board do not support “the Board’s finding that
a cable company’s right to do business can be valued for property tax purposes
on the basis of its marketing expenses.” 
(OB 30-35.)  Notably, the Assessor
does not cite any authority suggesting that it is improper to value an
intangible asset based on the income generated from marketing expenses.  Thus, it is the Assessor’s position that
lacks support.  Regardless, the Board did
not err in concluding that Time Warner’s valuation method is consistent with Elk
Hill, Half Moon Bay, and Stanislaus. 
(AR 3246.)  The Assessor
criticizes the Board’s reliance on Elk Hills and Half Moon Bay
because those cases did not “involve[] a cable company, a cable possessory
interest . . . or the valuation of a cable company’s right to do business.”  (OB 32.) 
The distinction is not material.  Elk
Hills and Half Moon Bay provide guidance with respect to the
valuation of intangible assets for tax purposes.  Nothing in those decisions suggests that the
valuation method used by Time Warner and adopted by the Board was improper.  And contrary to the Assessor’s argument, Stanislaus
supports the Board’s decision because it equated the “right to engage in
business” with “soliciting subscribers.” 
(Stanislaus, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at 1456.)  Finally, intangible assets include “marketing”
pursuant Revenue and Taxation Code section 107.7(d).  While section 107.7 may not explicitly
authorize the valuation method adopted by the Board, it also does not forbid it
as the Assessor suggests.  (OB 34-35.)  
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Assessor
does not show that the Board prejudicially abused its discretion in adopting
Time Warner’s approach to valuing the right to do business.  However, the parties agree that the Board
erred in an adjustment it made to the profit margin inputted in Time Warner’s
valuation.  (See OB 39.)  The court considers that last issue and Time
Warner’s cross-appeal next.  
 
5.         Time Warner’s Cross-Appeal 
 
The Assessor contends that the Board’s valuation of the
right to do business using a profit margin of 18 percent is not supported by
substantial evidence.  Time Warner agrees
that “[t]here is nothing in the record to support the reduced profit margin
used by the Board.”  The parties
disagree, however, on the appropriate remedy. 
The Assessor contends that the Board’s decision must be vacated and the
matter remanded for rehearing.  In
contrast, Time Warner contends that correction of the Board’s error requires
“mathematical computations only” that may be made by the parties without a
remand to the Board.  (OB 39-40; Oppo.
38-39.)  
 
Substantial evidence supports the Board’s finding that the 36 percent profit
margin used by Time Warner was “due to the total marketing expense and not the marketing
expenses attributable to the possessory interest.”  (AR 3247.) 
Specifically, Jones, Time Warner’s expert, surveyed the Earnings before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, (EBITDA) of major cable
companies.  The EBITDA margins for the
competitive set of large publicly traded companies which was used by Times
Warner averaged approximately 36 percent. 
(AR 2892-2893, 1825-1827.)  Jones’s
testimony and appraisal report are substantial evidence that the 36 percent
profit margin was across all revenue streams of the cable companies.  (See AR 1826-1827.)  Although Jones may have implied that the 36 percent
profit margin also applies to the possessory interests, Jones did not provide
any specific estimate of the profit margin that would apply to marketing
expenses attributable to the possessory interests.  It was not arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable for the Board to find, as it did, that the 36 percent profit
margin was “due to the total marketing expense and not the marketing expenses
attributable to the possessory interest.” 

 
Time Warner argues
that “no marketing could be performed without the right to do business” and
“the only profit margin figure in the record is the one offered by Mr. Jones.”  (Oppo. 38.) 
Time Warner points out that the Assessor bore the burden of proof and
that he did not introduce evidence supporting a different profit margin,
including the 18 percent profit margin used by the Board.  (Ibid.)  Thus, Time Warner essentially argues that the
Board had no option but to adopt the 36 percent profit margin.  
 
The court agrees
that there is insufficient evidence to support the 50 percent reduction applied
by the Board to the profit margin.  The Board
found as follows:
 
The Board finds this profit margin due to the total
marketing expense and not the marketing expenses attributable to the possessory
interest.  In the absence of more
reliable data to show a separate income stream attributable to the intangible marketing
activity the Board will allow for half of the profit margin calculated by the Applicant
as attributable to the intangible marketing activity.
 
(AR 3247.)  This suggests that the Board selected the 50%
reduction arbitrarily based upon the “absence of more reliable data.”  However, the court does not agree with Time
Warner that the Board lacked discretion to reject the 36 percent profit margin
used by Time Warner’s experts.  The Board
had discretion to do so provided there was a valid reason or methodology.  Among other options, the Board could have
requested additional evidence on this issue or asked more clarifying questions
of the experts at the hearing.  The court
also does not agree with Time Warner that correction of the error requires
“mathematical computations only” that can be made by the parties or court
without a remand.  The circumstances are
not similar to Cat Partnership v. County of Santa Cruz (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1071, 1088-1089, upon which Time Warner relies.  As the trier of fact, the Board must
determine in the first instance whether to use the 36 percent profit margin
proposed by Time Warner’s experts or, if it declines to do so, how the
valuation should be adjusted in a manner that is supported by evidence.  If the record does not include “reliable
data,” the Board may request further briefing or evidence from the parties or
pursue other options within its legal discretion.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court grants the petition and cross-appeal, in part, only with
respect to the 50 percent reduction applied by the Board to the profit margin
used by Time Warner in its valuation of the right to do business.  A remand is consistent with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5(f), which provides: “Where the judgment commands that
the order or decision be set aside, it may order the reconsideration of the
case in light of the court’s opinion and judgment and may order respondent to
take such further action as is specially enjoined upon it by law, but the
judgment shall not limit or control in any way the discretion legally vested in
the respondent.”  (emphasis
added.)  The Board may make a better
record concerning the basis to apply a 50% reduction, may apply a different
reduction, or may apply no reduction at all. 

 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Assessor’s motion to augment the
administrative record is denied.
 
2.         The
Assessor’s petition for writ of mandate and Time Warner’s cross-appeal are
granted in part and denied in part.
 
3.         The court
will issue a writ directing the Board to set aside only the portion of the
decision “allow[ing] for half of the profit margin calculated by the Applicant
as attributable to the intangible marketing activity.”  (See AR 3247, last full
paragraph.)  On remand, the Board shall
reconsider only that 50 percent reduction in the profit margin
used by Time Warner’s experts and all calculations in the assessed values of
the possessory interests that were based on that 50 percent reduction in the
profit margin.  The writ will not limit
or control the discretion vested in the Board to determine the appropriate
profit margin to use in the valuation of the right to do business.  The Board may make a better record
concerning the basis to apply a 50% reduction, may apply a different reduction,
or may apply no reduction at all.  
 
4.         Time
Warner’s cross-appeal is denied to the extent Time Warner contends that the
Board is mandated by law to use a 36 percent profit margin in the valuation of
the right to do business.  (See Cross-Appeal
¶ 43.)  The remainder of the
cross-appeal, including the request for a refund of taxes, is stayed pending
reconsideration by the Board of the appropriate profit margin. (See Id. Prayer
¶ 44A and B.) 
 
5.         The parties
shall meet-and-confer and lodge a proposed judgment.
 
6.         The court’s
clerk shall provide notice.   
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: November 15,
2024                                        ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


