  Case Number:  24STCV09279    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  82 Artuozo Neihule, et al.                                              Case
No. 24STCV09279
 
v.                                                                     Date/Time:
June 14, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
Bianca Hillier                                                            Department:
82
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
Order Issuing
Preliminary Injunction and Setting Undertaking

 

 
            Plaintiffs
Artuozo Neihuele Yvonne Neihule (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Bianca Hillier (“Defendant”) seeking damages and injunctive relief for
breach of an easement agreement and nuisance. 
The parties are neighbors, and there is an easement permitting
Plaintiffs to build a new driveway to connect their house to the existing
driveway.  After the work was completed,
Defendant raised a concern that some of the new driveway fell onto
approximately 485 square feet of her land, which allegedly is located outside
the easement area.  Defendant placed four
poles with “No Parking” signs with a rope fence on the disputed land, which
narrowed the driveway so much that Plaintiffs could not access their house by
car.  Plaintiffs filed an ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) to remove the signs and
not install anything that prevents vehicles from using the driveway.  
 
            Following a
hearing on May 23, 2024, the court granted in part and denied in part
Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a TRO. 
The court ordered that Plaintiffs, as well as their agents and/or
invitees, may use the existing driveway to access Plaintiffs’ property,
including any part of the driveway that lies on Defendant’s property, and that
Defendant is enjoined from taking any action to interfere with use of the
driveway to access Plaintiffs’ property. 
The court denied the TRO insofar as Plaintiffs, as well as their agents
and/or invitees, sought to park their vehicles on the disputed land.  The court issued an order to show cause why a
preliminary injunction should not issue on these terms and provided notice that
it would determine the amount of the undertaking at the OSC hearing.  
 
The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the
status quo pending a decision on the merits. 
(Major v. Miraverde Homeowners
Ass’n. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618, 623.) 
In deciding whether or not to grant a preliminary injunction, the court
looks to two factors, including “(1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms that is likely to
result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive relief.”  (White
v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.)  The factors are interrelated, with a greater
showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  If the balancing of harms strongly
favors the moving party, there need only be “some possibility” that the moving
party will prevail on the merits.  (Jamison
v. Department of Transportation (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 356, 362, citing Butt
v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.)   
 
As an initial matter, Defendant attempts to characterize
this preliminary injunction as a mandatory one. 
The court disagrees with the characterization.  The driveway has been constructed, and it
will remain in place until the conclusion of this case.  The court’s temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction prohibit Defendant from blocking Plaintiffs’ use of the
driveway.  This is a prohibitory
injunction.  
 
Plaintiffs have demonstrated irreparable harm, and the
balancing of hardships strongly favors Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs cannot access their house by car
without use of the driveway.  (See
Declaration of Artuozo Neihule, ¶ 12.) 
This gives rise to safety concerns for residents and visitors: “[W]e
have to park vehicles across Laurel Canyon Boulevard, and up a side street,
which then requires us to walk down that hill, cross Laurel Canyon Boulevard
(which is a very busy thoroughfare and is dangerous to cross, particularly as
pedestrians) on foot . . . .” 
(Ibid.)  In addition, disabled
persons, viz., Plaintiff Yvonne Neihule’s mother, cannot access the house.  (Ibid.) 
One visitor to Plaintiffs’ property was injured by Defendant’s rebar
stakes marking the disputed property line. 
(Id., ¶ 15.)  Finally, the
property is not easily accessible by foot, and heavy or large objects cannot be
moved in and out of the house.  (See id.,
¶ 12.)  Simply, Plaintiffs cannot safely
and effectively access the property without use of the driveway.    
 
Defendant
demonstrated a hardship in allowing vehicles to park in the disputed area,
which is why the court denied Plaintiffs’ TRO on that point.  However, Defendant demonstrates no harm in
allowing vehicles to traverse the disputed driveway pending the outcome of this
litigation.  The driveway has been completed.  Even assuming the driveway encroaches on
Defendant’s property, it will not be removed from the disputed parcel until the
litigation is completed.  To the extent
Defendant complains of the loss of use of the disputed parcel or the delay in building
an accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”), those losses can be compensated through
litigation if Defendant files a cross-complaint.  
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the court finds that the balancing of hardships strongly favors
Plaintiffs.  In addition, Plaintiffs
demonstrate a sufficient probability of success on the merits given the strong
showing of irreparable harm.  Defendant’s
counsel argues that the driveway exceeds the scope of the easement and
encroaches on her land, relying on a declaration from Frank J. Sobecki, a
licensed surveyor.  The court need not
resolve whether he is correct because there is sufficient evidence that
Defendant consented to the construction of the driveway in its current
location.  According to Plaintiff Artuozo
Niehuele, he “repeatedly and frequently sent Defendant photographs and videos
of the work as it was being done.”  (See
Declaration of Artuozo Neihule, dated June 11, 2024, ¶ 3 & Exhs. 8-15.)  Defendant approved the construction.  (See id., Exhs. 8-15.)  
 
In the first
text message, Defendant asked, “[A]re you doing the full bottom from Laurel up
to the driveway patio right turn?”  (See
id., ¶ 3 & Exh. 8.)  In response,
Plaintiff Artuozo Neihule sent photos depicting both the downhill original
driveway and the uphill new driveway, drawing red lines to show where the
concrete “turn” would be from the original driveway to the new driveway.  (See id., ¶ 3 & Exh. 8.)  In a subsequent text, Plaintiff Artuozo
Neihule re-sent the same photographs and informed Defendant that he was “going
to pour concrete all over the dirt” featured in the photographs.  (See id., ¶ 4 & Exh. 9.)  Defendant indicated her approval with a
“thumbs up” emoji.  (See id., Exh.
9.)  Then, later during the construction,
Plaintiff Artuozo Neihule sent another photograph showing the placement of the driveway
before the concrete was laid.  (See id.,
¶ 5 & Exh. 10.)  Defendant responded,
“Wild!  Your driveway is coming!”  (Id., Exh. 10.)  Plaintiff Artuozo Neihule responded, “Sure is,”
and Defendant indicated her approval with a heart emoji.  (Ibid.) 
Then, Defendant sent a photograph of the driveway with two areas having
been circled, inquiring as to her share of the cost of the lower driveway.  (Id., ¶ 6 & Exh. 11.)  This photograph and Defendant’s notations
indicated that she was aware of the location the driveway and the “turn.”  (See id., Exh. 11.)  Finally, Plaintiff Artuozo Neihule sent a
video of the concrete being laid, and it showed the area in dispute.  (See id., ¶ 8 & Exh. 14.)  In response Defendant wrote, “LOOKING soo
good.”  (See id., Exh. 14, emphasis in
original.)  This evidence is sufficient
to establish that Defendant consented to the location of the driveway.    
 
Defendant raises a series of arguments.  Defendant states: “I informed [Plaintiffs]
that the Driveway documents do not show any of the information that I needed to
reasonably evaluate the new driveway Plaintiffs desired to construct on my
property pursuant to the Easement, including, but not limited to, the exact
location of where the new driveway would be build . . . .”  (Declaration of Bianca Hillier, dated May 20,
2024, ¶ 6.)  Defendant’s text messages
contradict her argument.  Defendant also
argues that the driveway was constructed incorrectly, e.g., the slope is
incorrect; the driveway does not properly address water run-off, etc.  These issues are not related to the scope of
the easement at issue.      
 
Finally, the court finds that Defendant acted in bad faith
in erecting a rope fence across the driveway. 
If Defendant’s true intention was merely to prevent parking in the
disputed area, she could have placed “No Parking” signs in locations that would
not block ingress and egress to Plaintiffs’ house.  The court finds that Defendant’s true
intention was to block Plaintiffs’ ingress and egress in order to gain a
strategic advantage in this litigation.  
 
A
preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the
plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may
sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the
plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. 
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Ass’n. (1992)
11 Cal. App. 4th 916, 920.)  Defendant
requests lost income from her purported delay in building an ADU, which she
estimates to be $2,500 per month.  (See
Declaration of Bianca Hillier ¶ 52.) 
Because there is no cross-complaint, there is no basis to include lost
income in the undertaking.  
 
  Defendant’s counsel requests $850,000 in
attorneys’ fees.  “[T]he prevailing
defendant may recover that portion of his attorney’s fees attributable to defending
against those causes of action on which the issuance of the preliminary
injunction had been based.”  (Abba Rubber Co. v. Seaquist (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 1, 15-16.)  The
determination of reasonable amount of attorney fees is within the sound
discretion of trial courts. (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1084, 1095; Akins v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 1127, 1134.)  The burden is on the party seeking
attorney fees to prove reasonableness of the fees.  (Center for Biological Diversity v. County
of San Bernardino (2010) 188 Cal. App. 4th 603, 615.)  
 
Defendant’s counsel provides no explanation
for this amount, which is absurd on its face for a case of this nature.  Indeed, this amount drastically exceeds the
value of the case and reflects a lack of reasonableness on the part of
Defendant’s counsel (or signals his intention to engage in abusive litigation
conduct that is disfavored in the Los Angeles County Superior Court).  In setting the amount of attorneys’ fees,
“the court may rely on its own knowledge and familiarity with the legal market,
as well as the experience, skill, and reputation of the attorney requesting
fees [citation], the difficulty or complexity of the litigation to which that
skill was applied [citations], and affidavits from other attorneys regarding
prevailing fees in the community and rate determinations in other cases.”  (569
East County Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 426, 437.)  Based upon the
foregoing, the court finds that a reasonable number of billable hours for this
case would be 200 to 250 hours.  The
court finds that a reasonable billing rate is $400 to $500 per hour based upon
the nature of the issues, the potential value of the case, and Defendant’s
counsel’s experience which, based upon his bar number, is about ten years.  Therefore, the court finds that an
undertaking of $100,000 for attorneys’ fees is reasonable.   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
1.         The court issues a preliminary
injunction on the same terms as the temporary restraining order.
 
2.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall prepare and
lodge a proposed preliminary injunction for the court’s signature.
 
3.         Plaintiffs shall post an undertaking of
$100,000 as a condition of this preliminary injunction.
 
4.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 