 Case Number:  23STCV17972    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  14 ADD on #1Case Background
Plaintiff alleges that there
was an issue with a tenant at her apartment improperly exposing himself in the
swimming pool area, which was later litigated in a small claims action
(22SMSC00638).
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff
Shahnaz Amirtalesh her Complaint against Defendants Beverly Hills Properties,
LLC, Douglas Walton, Fred S. Peters, Stacey Friedman, Pyka Lenhardt Schnaider
Dawkins, and the Law Office of Robert Shiri, APC.
On September 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants
Beverly Hills Properties, LLC, The Sterlin Family Trust, Rochelle H. Sterling,
Douglas Walton, Gregory Garbacz, David Lenhardt, Fred S. Peters, Stacey Friedman,
Klinedinst PC, Pyka Lenhardt Schnaider Dawkins, Law Office of Robert Shiri,
APC, Humberto Gonzalez, and Arianne Newman.
On May 1, 2024, the Court
granted the Anti-SLAPP special motion to strike filed by Defendants Beverly
Hills Properties LLC; Rochelle H. Sterling, Arianne Newman, Douglas Walton,
Stacey Friedman, and Law Offices of Robert Shiri, APC. The Court dismissed the
First Amended Complaint as to those Defendants.
On June 13, 2024, the Court
sustained a demurrer filed by Defendants Stacey Friedman and the Law Offices of
Robert R. Shiri, APC.
On September 5, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant
Gonzalez’s first demurrer.
On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC).
On October 14, 2024, Defendants Beverly Hills
Properties LLC; Rochelle H. Sterling, Arianne Newman, Douglas Walton, Stacey
Friedman, and Law Offices of Robert Shiri, APC filed their objection to the
Second Amended Complaint.
On October 22, 2024, Gonzalez filed a second demurrer.
On November 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a late
opposition.
Instant Pleading
Defendant Gonzalez demurs to the SAC.
Decision
Defendant Gonzalez’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
The SAC is stricken as to Defendants Beverly Hills
Properties LLC; Rochelle H. Sterling, Arianne Newman, Douglas Walton, Stacey
Friedman, and Law Offices of Robert Shiri, APC.
Discussion
Gonzalez demurs to the SAC on the grounds that it does
not allege any new or different facts against him. Rather, the SAC removes
Gonzalez’s name from some causes of action. All remaining allegations remain
the same. 
On September 5, 2024, the Court sustained Gonzalez’s
first demurrer to the first, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, eighth, and tenth causes of action because these causes of action were
barred by litigation privilege. The seventh and eleventh causes of action were
barred under the doctrine of res judicata. Additionally, the demurrer was
sustained as to the first cause of action for fraud because the FAC failed to
allege that Plaintiff relied on any misrepresentations by Gonzalez. The
demurrer was sustained as to the third cause of action for violation of
Business and Professions Code, section 17200 because the FAC failed to allege
that Gonzalez engaged in an unfair business practice. 
Here, the SAC adds new
allegations against the Defendants who were already dismissed from this action
after the Court granted their anti-SLAPP special motion to strike in May 2024.
When the Court granted leave to amend after it sustained Gonzalez’s first
demurrer, it did not grant Plaintiff leave to add these new allegations against
the dismissed Defendants. Because Plaintiff exceeded the scope of the Court’s
order granting leave to amend, the allegations against the dismissed Defendants
are stricken.
The SAC now only names
Gonzalez as to the fifth cause of action for defamation, the sixth cause of
action for harassment, the seventh cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress, the tenth cause of action for retaliation, and the eleventh
cause of action for intrusion of solitude. As before, the SAC alleges that the
same injury as the underlying small claims case, 22SMSC00638. Specifically, the
SAC alleges Gonzalez sunbathed nude in the pool area in front of Plaintiff’s
unit, that he made loud noises, that he played loud music, and that Plaintiff
was disturbed by his activities. (SAC ¶¶ 45, 89.) As before, the SAC alleges Defendants
made false statements in the underlying small claims action. (SAC ¶100.) The
Court notes that the sixth cause of action for defamation does not concern any
conduct by Gonzalez. Rather, the cause of action only concerns conduct by the
attorney Defendants. 
The crux of the allegations
against Gonzalez remains the same as the allegations in the FAC. Thus, the
claims are barred by litigation privilege or res judicata. Therefore, Gonzalez’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff filed a late opposition on November 21, 2024. Plaintiff’s deadline to
file her opposition was due on November 19, 2024, 9 court days before the
hearing on this matter. The Court has, in its discretion, considered the late
opposition and finds that Plaintiff fails to address the defects identified
above. Although Plaintiff argues in a conclusory manner that the SAC alleges
facts sufficient to support her demands for damages, Plaintiff fails to address
litigation privilege or res judicata. Because this is the second time the Court
has considered these issues and Plaintiff failed to amend the Complaint to cure
these defects, Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend is denied.
Conclusion
Defendant Gonzalez’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
The SAC is stricken as to Defendants Beverly Hills
Properties LLC; Rochelle H. Sterling, Arianne Newman, Douglas Walton, Stacey
Friedman, and Law Offices of Robert Shiri, APC.