  Case Number:  23CHCV00086    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  9/13/24




Case
  Name: Alfred Badal v. Vintage at Bouquet Canyon LP, and Does 1 to 100




Case No.
  23CHCV00086



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

SEPTEMBER 13, 2024
 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00086

 
Motion
filed: 6/11/24 
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Vintage at Bouquet Canyon LP

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Alfred Badal
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment on Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises from injuries that Plaintiff Alfred
Badal (“Plaintiff” or “Badal”) allegedly sustained during a trip-and-fall
incident on January 19, 2021. The fall occurred during a power outage at
Defendant’s premises, a senior housing apartment located at 26705 Bouquet
Canyon Road, Santa Clarita, California (the “Property”). 
 
On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant Vintage at Bouquet Canyon LP (“Defendant” or “Bouquet
Canyon”), alleging two causes of action: (1) Premises Liability, and (2)
General Negligence. Subsequently, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint
on June 5, 2023.
 
            On June
11, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the
“Motion”). Subsequently, Plaintiff filed an Opposition on August 30, 2024, and
Defendant replied on September 6, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In
determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
“[I]f the moving papers establish a prima facie
showing that justifies a [ruling] in the [moving party’s] favor, the burden
then shifts to the [opposing party] to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable material factual issue.”' (Citation.)" (See's
Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900,
quoting Rehmani v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945,
950.) “The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
 
A.   
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The
court has reviewed the voluminous evidentiary objections submitted by both parties. While
all objections have
been considered, due to their extensive nature, the Court will not address
each objection individually
in this tentative ruling. Instead, the Court's analysis will focus on the
substance of the objections raised
and their relevance to the determination of the Motion at hand. Parties are
advised to review the Court's analysis and raise any specific concerns during
the oral argument.
 
B.    
Motion for
Summary Judgment
 
1)      Issues Framed by
the Pleadings
 
The Complaint
alleges only two causes of action: (1) Premises Liability, and (2) General
Negligence. Plaintiff claims Defendants “negligently and carelessly
owned, operated, maintained, serviced, inspected and otherwise controlled the
premises so that a dangerous condition was permitted to exist on said premises
which caused Plaintiff to sustain physical injuries” under the first cause of
action. (Compl. at p. 4.) Similarly, the Complaint asserts a general allegation
for the second cause of action, “Defendants owned, operated, entrusted, and
controlled, the subject property in such a negligent and reckless manner so as
to allow a dangerous condition so as to cause and/or contribute to plaintiff's
injuries and damages as alleged herein.” (Compl. at p. 6.)
 
Defendant argues that the Complaint’s scope is
limited to the Plaintiff’s original discovery responses to the Special
Interrogatory Nos. 51 and 54, which state that “State in detail all facts that support YOUR claim for
[General Negligence/Premises Liability] against VINTAGE AT BOUQUET CANYON LP as
outlined in YOUR complaint filed in the Los Angeles County Superior Court Case
No. 23CHCV00086.” (Mot. at pp. 5-6.)
 
Plaintiff’s original responses to the
interrogatories in question assert that Bouquet Canyon “failed to follow the
National Fire Protection Association (“NFPA”) 110 regulations” (Mot. at p. 6, Aziz Decl. Ex.
“10”), and that Bouquet Canyon “[failed] to protect Plaintiff from the
dangerous conditions on the premises, including inadequate lighting in staircases and failure to
maintain alternate source(s) of electrical power on the premises in the event
the primary electrical power source failed.” (Mot. at p. 7, Aziz Decl. Ex.
“10.”)
 
However, the
Court notes that discovery responses are not pleading, which are defined in Code
of Civil Procedure section 420 as “the formal allegations by the parties of
their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the Court.”
Additionally, “[t]he pleadings allowed in civil actions are complaints,
demurrers, answers, and cross-complaints.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10.) 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s Opposition
attempts to raise new issues not encompassed in the pleadings, including the
argument on Defendant’s failure to comply with the 1994 Uniform Building Code. 
 
The Court emphasizes that generally, “[t]he
pleadings delimit the issues to be considered on a motion for summary judgment.
[Citation.]” (Turner v. State of California (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d
883, 891.) Thus, a “defendant moving for
summary judgment need address only the issues raised by the complaint; the
plaintiff cannot bring up new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing papers.”
(Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 95, 98–99, fn. 4.) 
 
            The case file indicates
that no demurrer was filed. Accordingly, the Court finds that the issues framed
by the pleadings are not automatically limited to Plaintiff’s responses to
written discoveries, as such responses do not qualify as “pleadings.” While new
factual issues presented in Opposition are not categorically excluded, they remain
subject to exclusion under applicable laws, as discussed below.
 
2)      Defendant’s Initial Burden – Premises Liability and General
Negligence
 
“The elements¿of a cause of action for¿premises¿liability¿are
the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)
 
“As in a general negligence cause of action, a plaintiff
bringing an action for premises liability based on a negligence theory must
plead and prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the
plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages.” (Annocki v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37(Annocki).)
 
  “Those who own, possess, or control property generally
have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to
avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki, supra,
232 Cal.App.4th at p. 37.)  One that owns, possesses, or controls the
property can be liable if he knew or by the exercise of reasonable care should
have known of the dangerous condition. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1209.) California utilizes the substantial factor
test for cause-in-fact determinations and under that standard, a cause-in-fact
is something that is a substantial factor in bringing about the injury and
includes situations in which there may be independent or concurrent causes in
fact. (Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953,
969.)  The question is whether the defendant’s breach of duty was a
substantial factor in bringing about the plaintiff’s harm. (Mayes v.
Bryan (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1093.)
 
            In the
Motion, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not established, and cannot
reasonably expect to establish the element of duty or liability based on the
following grounds: (1) it is not required to follow the NFPA 110 regulations,
and (2) Plaintiff was aware of the alleged dangerous condition which was also
open and obvious, and there was no necessity for Plaintiff to encounter it. 
 
i)                  
NFPA 110
Regulations
 
Defendant presents declarations by its senior vice
president, Maureen Picarella, stating that “Bouquet Canyon is an apartment
complex for ages 55 and over.” (Picarella Decl. ¶ 3.) “Bouquet Canyon does not
provide any type of medical care for its residents.” (Id. ¶ 4.) “Bouquet
Canyon is not an assisted living facility, it is not a nursing home and it is
not a hospital.” (Id. ¶ 5.)
 
            Defendant asserts
that the evidence negates Plaintiff’s claim that “all assisted care, nursing
homes, and medical facilities must meet the backup-emergency power codes of
NFPA 110 and NEC 700,” thereby demonstrating that there is no duty for Bouquet
Canyon to have a backup power source during blackouts. (Mot. at p. 6.) Defendant
further argues that “there is no case law, building, City nor State code
establishing such a duty,” and therefore, “Plaintiff cannot establish the
elements of duty.” (Ibid.)
 
            The Court
finds that Defendant has met its initial burden in establishing a prima facie
showing that it is not required to follow NFPA 110 regulations. 
 
ii)                
Open and
Obvious Condition
 
Defendant argues, as an alternative ground, that based on
the general rule, the owner of the property is not liable for injuries to an
invitee resulting from a danger that was obvious or should have been observed
in the exercise of reasonable care, citing cases including Florez v. Groom
Dev. Co. (1959) 53 Cal.2d 347, 355, Brown v. San Francisco Ball Club,
Inc., (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 484, 486, Dingman v. A.F. Mattock Co., (1940)
15 Cal.2d 622, 624.
 
Defendant also correctly acknowledges an exception to the
general rule: when it is necessary for Plaintiff to encounter the dangerous
condition, the obviousness of danger may negate any duty to warn, however, it
does not necessarily negate the duty to remedy. (Mot. at pp. 7-8, Osborn v.
Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 121-122(Osborn).)
 
Here, Defendant presents its undisputed material facts that
Plaintiff was aware of the power outage as he admitted that he had notice of
the power outage on January 19, 2021, due to Southern California Edison’s
rolling blackout. (UMF, No. 7, Heineman Decl. Ex. “D.”) Defendant further asserts
that the alleged dangerous condition of the dark stairwell was open and obvious
to Plaintiff. (UMF, No. 12, Heineman Decl. Ex. “G.”)    
 
            Despite
the above, Defendant does not provide direct evidence showing that there is unnecessity
for Plaintiff to encounter the dangerous condition – specifically, walking through
the stairwell. Defendant relies on inferential evidence, arguing that it was unnecessary
for Plaintiff to climb the dark stairs for the reasons that (1) Plaintiff was
not a resident at Bouquet Canyon, (2) Plaintiff could have brought a light
source to illuminate the dark stairwell, (3) Plaintiff could have asked or hired
someone else to visit his mom in the Property, and (4) Plaintiff could have exercised
reasonable care by carrying nothing in his hands and using onto the railing to
prevent his fall. (Mot. at p. 8.)
 
            The Court
finds this argument does not meet Defendant’s initial burden. The issue of
necessity in this context is generally a question of fact. In Osborn,
the court addresses a situation where the workman invitee plaintiff fell from a
dangerous plank which was the only means furnished to reach a faucet that was
the only place where water was available. (Osborn, supra, 224
Cal.App.3d at p. 119.) The Osborn court stated, “The jury was entitled
to balance the [plaintiff’s] necessity against the danger, even if it be
assumed that it was an apparent one. This was a factual issue. [Citations
omitted.]” (Ibid.)
 
Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff visited his mom, a third-floor
resident of Bouquet Canyon, every day to assist with every aspect of her care,
including sitting up, lying down, eating, drinking, bathing, toileting,
dressing, and grooming. (Pl.’s UMF No. 57, Aziz Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. “1,” Badal Decl.
¶ 3.) Additionally, the interior staircase where Plaintiff fell serves as an
exit path of the Subject Premises. (Pl.’s UMF No. 23, Zaretsky Decl. ¶ 10.) Consequently,
the Court finds that the undisputed facts support an inference of necessity for
Plaintiff to encounter the black stairwell on January 19, 2021. 
 
Therefore, the Court concludes that Defendant has failed to
demonstrate the absence of triable factual material issue as to the necessity.
Accordingly, Defendant has failed to show a prima facie case to satisfy its
initial burden on this alternative basis.
 
3)     
Plaintiff’s
Burden – Existence of Triable Material Factual Issues as to
Duties Owed by Defendant
 
            Previously
the Court concluded that Defendant has met its initial burden of showing that
it does not owe a duty, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff. The Court has also
determined that the scope of the pleading is not limited by Plaintiff’s
responses which only asserted a failure to follow NFPA 110 regulations. Therefore,
the Court proceeds to examine Plaintiff’s admissible evidence on whether a trial
material factual issue exists as to the duty element. 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff contends that Defendant had a duty to provide adequate illumination
during an emergency, which is imposed by several legal sources – specifically, the
1994 Uniform Building Code, the Los Angeles County Development Authority, and the
common law principle articulated in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108. (Opp’n. at pp. 15-16.)
 
i)                  
Uniform
Building Code
 
As evidence, Plaintiff relies solely on the declarations of
his expert witness, Alex Zaretskiy, who concludes that “the Property was
designed, plan-checked, and constructed under the jurisdiction and model
standards of the 1994 Uniform Building Code,” Section 1012 of which “specially
indicated that exists ‘… shall be illuminated at any time the building is
occupied …’” (Zaretskiy Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. “C.”) “Based on the videos taken by
Plaintiff following the Incident, there was no illumination within the
stairwell.” (Id. ¶ 7.) (Underlines added.)
 
“A properly qualified expert may offer an opinion
relating to a subject that is beyond common experience, if that expert's
opinion will assist the trier of fact. (Evid. Code, § 801, subd. (a).
There are limits to expert
testimony, not the least of which is the prohibition against admission of an
expert's opinion on a question of law. (Ferreira
v. Workmen's Comp. Appeals Bd. (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 120.)  
 
Here, the Court concludes that it
is foreclosed to consider Plaintiff’s expert testimony based on two reasons. 
 
First, it
is indisputable that “[t]he question of duty is ... a legal question to be
determined by the court. [Citations.]” (Staten v. Superior Court
(1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1628, 1635.) Consequently, expert testimony as to
whether or what legal duties arise from building codes is inappropriate, as it constitutes
a legal conclusion. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff’s expert’s conclusion that Defendant violated certain sections of the
Uniform Building Code lacks evidentiary support due to contradictory discovery
responses.
 
“California's
civil discovery process aims to unearth the truth of the case, thus
facilitating
settlement on the basis of the
mutually expected value of the suit. Evasive discovery responses
frustrate this goal by
concealing the truth. A party cannot evade discovery duties and then try to
defeat summary judgment by adding factual claims to create last-minute disputed
issues.” (Field v. U.S. Bank; 79 Cal.App.5th 703, 705) (Underlines
added.) “A party opposing summary judgment may not move the target after the
proponent has launched its arrow.” (Id. at pp. 707,708.) 
 
The sham declaration doctrine comes into play when
a party offers a later declaration that contradicts a prior clear and
unequivocal admission made in a deposition. In this situation, such a
declaration alone cannot establish a triable issue of fact. (Harris v.
Thomas Dee Engineering Co., Inc. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 594, 603.)  This conclusion, however, follows only if
there is no credible explanation for the supposed inconsistency. (Id. at
p. 605.)  The doctrine does not apply when a reasonable explanation resolves
the supposed discrepancy. (Id. at p. 606.)
 
Here, the two videos upon which Plaintiff’s expert relied
were initially admitted to have been taken in May 2021. However, in Plaintiff’s
revised discovery responses, dated August 29, 2024 – one day before filing the
Opposition – Plaintiff claimed that the videos were taken on January 19, 2021,
the day of Plaintiff’s fall, directly contradicting the original responses.
This distinction is crucial, as it determines whether the video depicts
relevant evidence – the condition of the stairwell at the time of Plaintiff’s
injury. 
 
Given the direct contradiction, the late revision, and the absence
of any explanation, the Court applies the sham declaration doctrine to Plaintiff’s
revised responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, No. 12.4, dated August 29,
2024. 
 
Consequently, the Court does not consider Plaintiff’s
expert declarations on this issue, as it states a legal conclusion and relies
on inadmissible evidence.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not presented
admissible evidence to establish that there exists a triable factual issue as
to Defendant’s duty to follow the 1994 Uniform Building Code or breached such a
duty. 
 
 
ii)                
Los Angeles
County Development Authority’s (LACDA) Housing Quality Standards
 
Plaintiff contends that LACDA regularly conducts
inspections of the Property, including checking the lighting in common areas
such as staircases. Plaintiff states that two inspection reports, dated April
23 and May 18, 2021, respectively, by LACDA inspector Anthony Herrera indicate
that the Property failed to meet its housing quality standards. Plaintiff
asserts that “Anthony Herrera reviewed the January 19, 2021 videos recorded by
Plaintiff … depicting the pitch-black condition of the hallways and Subject Staircase
and determined that the [Property] was ‘very unsafe for senior occupants to
maneuver to get outdoor or Health Care Providers to enter senior occupants
rooms to provided assistance.” (Babal Del. ¶¶ 22, 24.)
 
However, as the Court has previously determined that the
revised assertion regarding the date of the videos – purportedly taken on
January 19, 2021 – is subject to exclusion under the sham declaration doctrine,
the Court will not consider the LACDA reports, as they were based on
inadmissible evidence.
 
iii)              
  Rowland Factors
 
“Whether a duty should be imposed
on a defendant [in a premises liability action] depends on a variety of policy
considerations, known as the Rowland
factors.” (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 446.) 
 
The “most important” of these considerations or
factors is “the foreseeability of injury to another.” (Osborn, supra, 224
Cal.App.3d at p. 122) “Foreseeability
of harm is typically absent when a dangerous condition is open and obvious.” (Id,
at p. 447.) (Underlines added.)
 
Here, Plaintiff presents evidence
aimed to establish a triable issue of material facts as to whether the
dangerous condition was open and obvious. Plaintiff argues that the dangerous
condition of the dark stairwell was not open or obvious, stating that when he
left [Bouquet Canyon] at 11:00 AM on January 19, 2021, the stairs were fully
visible due to natural light entering into the stairwell from the second and
third floor windows. Plaintiff had never before entered the stairwell during
sunset on a winter day during a power outage and had no reason to know that
the stairwell would be dark upon the closing of the door.” (See Pl.’s UMF
Nos. 70, 76, 77.) (Underlines added.)
 
Plaintiff attempts to distinguish
between the conditions of the stairwell in natural light and the condition
without it. A reasonable inference from Plaintiff’s evidence is that only the
latter constitutes a dangerous condition. However, this distinction is undermined
by Plaintiff’s own evidence, which states that “[w]hen Plaintiff returned to
the Subject Premises at approximately 4:30 PM on January 19, 2024, there was
still daylight because the sun was still setting…. When Plaintiff opened the
door at the first floor of the Subject Staircase, natural light entered into
the staircase and Plaintiff could see the stairs. After Plaintiff entered the
Subject Staircase, in the split-second during which Plaintiff attempted to
place his foot on the first stair, the door of the staircase closed, leaving
the entire area in pitch black.” (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 72, 74, 75.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s argument
hinges on the claim that the dangerous condition, as alleged, arose from the
power outage, which lasted until “the late afternoon of a winter day” (Pl.’s
UMF No. 77), and limited natural light entering from the second and third floor
windows into the stairwell (Id. UMF No. 67.) 
 
However, Plaintiff has not provided
any evidence that the power outage or its duration was foreseeable, nor has he
shown that the dark stairwell was a condition that could have been reasonably anticipated
given the time of the day or season. In contrast, a reasonable person, especially
one aware of the ongoing power outage, would be expected to exercise due care
when entering a dark stairwell. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has not met his burden of demonstrating “foreseeability of injury,”
the most important Rowland factor in determining whether a duty of care
exists. 
 
As a result, the Court concludes
that Plaintiff has failed to establish a prima facie showing, supported by
competent evidence, that there exists a triable issue of material fact
regarding the “duty” element in either cause of action. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 

CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Vintage at Bouquet Canyon LP’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice. 