 Case Number:  23STCV20273    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JADE GONZALES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAVID HOPP, M.D., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV20273
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SET
  ASIDE DEFAULTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 9, 2024



 
On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff Jade Gonzales filed this
action against Defendants David Hopp M.D., Andrew Hopp, and Youthfill MD XIX LLC.  In December 2023, the Court entered defaults against
David Hopp and Andrew Hopp.  On March 6, 2024,
the Court entered default against Youthfill.
On June 3, 2024, Defendants filed a motion
to set aside their defaults.
Defendant’s evidentiary objections are
overruled.
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is denied as unnecessary because the documents are already part of this case’s record.
DISCUSSION
“[I]f a defendant is not validly served
with a summons and complaint, the court lacks personal jurisdiction and a default
judgment in such action is subject to being set aside as void.”  (Lee v. An (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 558,
564.)  The Court may also set aside a default or default judgment upon a motion and
affidavit attesting that the lack of actual notice in time to defend the action
was not caused by the party’s avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.)  “If the court has acquired jurisdiction, i.e.,
summons has been served, but service of summons has not resulted in actual notice
to a defendant, although the defendant has acquired actual knowledge of the action
from another source, this does not preclude a defendant from seeking relief under
section 473.5.”  (Olvera v. Olvera
(1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32, 40.)
A.        Plaintiff Concedes Relief for Andrew Hopp.
Plaintiff admits that Andrew “presents
a plausible case” for relief because “he never received actual notice of the summons
and complaint,” and Plaintiff is “agreeable to the relief he seeks” because “Defendant
Andrew Hopp should not be made to suffer for the sins of the father.”  (Opposition at pp. 5-6.)  The motion is therefore granted for Andrew Hopp.
B.        David Hopp and Youthfill Were Properly
Served.
Substituted service requires leaving a
copy of the summons and complaint either at the individual’s dwelling house or usual
place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff
must also mail a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.20, subd. (b).)
According to
the filed proofs of service, after
two failed attempts at personal service,
David and Andrew were served via substituted service via “Jane Doe” on September
20, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. and 3:31 p.m. at 123 South Robertson Boulevard B, Los Angeles,
California 90048.  The summons, complaint,
and other documents were mailed via first class mail to the same address on September
29, 2023.
According to
the filed proof of service, after
two failed attempts at personal service,
Youthfill was served via substituted service via “Jane Doe” on September 20, 2023
at 3:00 p.m. at 123 South Robertson Boulevard B, Los Angeles, California 90048.  The summons, complaint, and other documents
were mailed via first class mail to the same address the next day.
Both individual defendants contend that
the service address is not their normal place of business.  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 11; A. Hopp Decl. ¶ 5.)  David’s normal office location is in Culver City,
and he is at the service address approximately once every two weeks.  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 11.)  Andrew occasionally provides bookkeeping services
for Youthfill, but he primarily works from home and has been at the service address
only on a few occasions over a period of years. 
(A. Hopp Decl. ¶ 5.)  No one ever provided
them with the papers that were allegedly mailed to the service address.  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 11; A. Hopp Decl. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff declares that when she was employed
by Youthfill at the service location, David was “typically present at this location
two to three times per week.”  (Gonzalez Decl.
¶¶ 3-4.)  The description of “Jane Doe” matches
only Koko, the long-time receptionist.  (Gonzalez
Decl. ¶ 5.)
In reply, David clarifies that he “has
never challenged—and does not now challenge—the validity of Plaintiff’s substitute
service on him or Youthfill, or that Plaintiff’s process server mailed the Summons
and Complaint to the Los Angeles Office for him and Youthfill.”  (Reply at p. 10.)  Instead, he contends that he was never personally
served and was never actually provided with the summons and complaint.  (Ibid.)
C.        The Lack of Actual Notice
Was Not Due to Avoidance of Service and Was Excusable, and David Acted Diligently
Thereafter.
David
declares that he “first learned of the above-captioned lawsuit on November 2, 2023
when one of my other attorneys notified me of its existence.”  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 3.)  The same day, he “reviewed the case docket online
by searching [his] name on the Los Angeles Superior Court’s website,” reviewed the
complaint, but did not review the summons or any of the Proofs of Service of Summons
filed by Plaintiff.  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 4.)  David has shown that he did not have actual notice
of this action until November 2, 2023.
David
then attempted to contact Plaintiff’s counsel via fax and phone.  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Plaintiff argues that David could not have faxed
copies of documents because he does not have a fax number and has not used a fax
machine for about twenty years.  (Nichols
Decl. ¶ 1; see D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 4.)  He also
never received a call or voicemail from David. 
(Nichols Decl. ¶ 2; see D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 5.)
After
David’s November 2, 2023 actual notice of this action, David appeared at the Case
Management Conference on December 21, 2023. 
Although this was after the entry of default against him (December 7, 2023),
it was still before entry of default against Youthfill (March 6, 2024).  “[I]t is now well-acknowledged that an attorney
has an ethical obligation to warn opposing counsel that the attorney is about
to take an adversary’s default.”  (Lasalle
v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 135 (Lasalle).)  Upon seeing that David was attempting to appear
and defend himself in this action, Plaintiff’s counsel had an ethical obligation
to warn him, “the single manager of the LLC and the agent for service of process,”
before taking Youthfill’s default.  (See Nichols
Decl. ¶ 5.)  The motion is therefore granted
for Youthfill.
David
did not receive notice from Plaintiff about the continued Case Management Conference,
so he “believed the March 11, 2024 CMC had been cancelled, and thus [he] did not
appear at the March 11, 2024 CMC.”  (D. Hopp
Decl. ¶ 8.)  He was delayed in retaining counsel
because he suffered from an unexpected health issue and also was dealing with a
serious family matter.  (D. Hopp Decl. ¶ 8.)  David contacted counsel in May 2024 and filed
this motion on June 3, 2024.  (D. Hopp Decl.
¶ 9.)
“[T]he
law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits,” and only very slight evidence
is required to set aside an entry of default. 
(Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233.)  Plaintiff has not shown any prejudice if the default
is set aside, “given the relatively short time between [Plaintiff] seeking the default
and [Defendants] asking to be relieved from it.”  (Lasalle,
supra, 36 Cal.App.5th at pp.
138-139.)  “‘When evaluating a motion
to set aside a default judgment on equitable grounds, the “court must weigh the
reasonableness of the conduct of the moving party in light of the extent of the
prejudice to the responding party.”’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 139.)  As in Lasalle, setting aside this default
involves little wasted time.
The
Court concludes that David did not have actual notice of this action until November
2, 2023, his lack of actual notice was excusable and not due to avoidance, and his
delay in moving to vacate default was excusable.  Accordingly, the motion is also granted for David
Hopp.
CONCLUSION
The
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default is GRANTED. 
The entries of default are VACATED.
Defendants
are ordered to file their responsive pleading within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 
 