  Case Number:  22STCV22161    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ENGINEER.AI CORPORATION, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TALKDESK, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV22161
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER
  TO FAC; OVERRULING DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT; GRANTING IN PART MOTION TO COMPEL
  PRIVILEGE LOG DOCUMENTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 9, 2024



 
On July 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Engineer.ai
Corporation, Engineer.ai Global Limited, and Engineer.ai India Private Limited (collectively,
“Engineer”) filed this action against Defendant Talkdesk, Inc. (“Talkdesk”).  On October 5, 2023, Engineer filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”).  On November 7, 2023, Talkdesk
filed a demurrer to the FAC.
On
February 23, 2024, Talkdesk filed a cross-complaint.  On April 2, 2024, Engineer filed a demurrer to
the cross-complaint.
On
June 12, 2024, Talkdesk filed a motion to compel production of privilege log documents.
LEGAL
STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
TALKDESK’S
DEMURRER TO ENGINEER’S FAC
The
FAC alleges (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; and (3) declaratory relief. 
Talkdesk demurs to the second and third causes of action.
A.        The Claim for Breach of Implied Covenant
is Duplicative of Breach of Contract (Second Cause of Action).
Talkdesk
argues that the claim for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
is uncertain and duplicative.  (Demurrer at
pp. 6-10.)
“The
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists
merely to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s
right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.  The covenant thus cannot ‘“‘be endowed with an
existence independent of its contractual underpinnings.’”’  [Citation.] 
It cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties
beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.”  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 349-350.)
“[T]ort
recovery for breach of the covenant [of good faith and fair dealing] is available
only in limited circumstances, generally involving a special relationship between
the contracting parties, such as the relationship between an insured and its insurer.”  (Bionghi v. Metropolitan Water Dist. of So.
California (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1370.)  “Because the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
essentially is a contract term that aims to effectuate the contractual intentions
of the parties, ‘compensation for its breach has almost always been limited to contract
rather than tort remedies.’ ”  (Cates Construction,
Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21 Cal.4th 28, 43.)  “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement
of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the
same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action,
they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.”  (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)
That
is the case here.  The FAC alleges that the
MSA “contained an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that neither party
to the contract will do anything to interfere with the rights of the other party
to receive the benefits of the contract.” 
(FAC ¶ 33.)  Therefore, “Talkdesk’s
conduct as described herein prevented Plaintiffs from receiving the benefits under
the MSA.”  (FAC ¶ 35.)  This is merely duplicative of the claim for breach
of contract and seeks the same damages.  (FAC
¶¶ 30, 36.)
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
B.        Engineer Sufficiently Alleges a Controversy
for Judicial Determination (Third Cause of Action).
Talkdesk
argues that the claim for declaratory relief “is an improper attempt to obtain by
declaratory relief what Engineer cannot obtain under the terms of the contract.”  (Demurrer at p. 11.)
A
person who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to
another may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties
of the respective parties, bring an action for a declaration of rights or duties,
either alone or with other relief.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1060.)  “The remedy of declaratory
relief is cumulative and does not restrict other remedies.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1062.) . . . The mere fact
that another remedy is available will not suffice as sufficient grounds for a court
to decline a declaration, because declaratory relief is not intended to be exclusive
or extraordinary.”  (Kirkwood v. California
State Automobile Assn. Inter-Ins. Bureau (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 49, 59.)
Engineer
seeks a judicial determination “as to whether Talkdesk waived its right under the
MSA to raise any dispute regarding its unpaid invoices” and “a declaration that
Talkdesk waived its right to dispute the invoice amounts of all of the foregoing
invoices.”  (FAC ¶¶ 39, 62.)  Talkdesk argues that this is a request to “read
out the entire rest of the MSA in favor of its isolated interpretation of a single
clause.”  (Demurrer at p. 11.)  That is not the case.  Any determination of liability or waiver will
still require full contractual interpretation.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.
ENGINEER’S
DEMURRER TO TALKDESK’S CROSS-COMPLAINT
The
cross-complaint alleges (1) breach of contract; (2) intentional interference with
contractual relations; (3) attempted extortion; (4) aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duty; (5) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200; and
(6) declaratory relief.  Engineer demurs to
all causes of action.
A.        Talkdesk Sufficiently Alleges Harm Caused
by the Side-Switching (Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action).
Engineer
argues that the causes of action related to Pham’s side-switching
are “no more than a re-litigation of the Disqualification Order” and “did not pray
for any relief beyond what the Disqualification Order already provided.”  (Demurrer at p. 7.)  The cross-complaint seeks, in part, “A preliminary
and permanent injunction enjoining Engineer from using Talkdesk confidential, privileged,
or protected information that it improperly obtained, and enjoining Engineer from
receiving assistance related to matters adverse to Talkdesk from anyone who has
received Talkdesk protected information . . . .”  (Cross-Complaint at p. 26.)  Engineer contends that “Talkdesk had already received
this relief through the Disqualification Order. 
Plaintiffs had already been enjoined from accessing or using Talkdesk’s confidential
information, or speaking with any person who may have been exposed to Talkdesk’s
confidential information.  There is no further
relief that would add to the prohibition to which Plaintiffs are already subject.”  (Demurrer at pp. 7-8.)  That is not correct.  The Court’s February 28, 2023 Disqualification
Order was more limited: (1) Engineer, its counsel, its CEO, and its COO were ordered
to have no communications with Engineer’s new counsel except to the extent necessary
to transfer case files that do not contain confidential Talkdesk information; (2)
Engineer was ordered to designate, with Talkdesk’s agreement, an individual who
will serve as Engineer’s client representative; (3) all communications by Engineer
and by counsel during the transition was to be in writing and first be provided
to Talkdesk’s counsel; and (4) Engineer was ordered to create an ethical wall.
Engineer
implicitly acknowledges that it is presenting an inaccurate interpretation of the
Order: “Plaintiffs offered Talkdesk to enter into a stipulated order providing for
the injunction against Plaintiffs’ use of Talkdesk confidential information, except
to the extent necessary to defend against the Cross-Complaint.  Talkdesk rejected that offer.”  (Demurrer at p. 8, fn. 1, citations omitted.)  Such a stipulated order would be unnecessary if
the Disqualification Order did, in fact, already provide that full injunctive relief.
Engineer
also argues that there is no allegation of recoverable monetary damage, citing “the
American rule” that each party ordinarily pays its own attorney fees.  (Demurrer at p. 8.)  The cross-complaint alleges that Talkdesk suffered
monetary damages in the form of “Talkdesk’s attorneys’ fees in seeking to have its
confidential and privileged information placed under seal or stricken from the public
record and in moving to disqualify Mr. Pham and Mr. Lobbin from continuing to work
on the Engineer v. Talkdesk litigation.” 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 67; see Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 71, 86.)  Talkdesk attaches a copy of the parties’ contract,
in which the parties agreed, “In any action or proceeding to enforce rights under
this Capacity Partner Agreement, the prevailing party will be entitled to recover
costs and attorneys’ fees.”  (Cross-Complaint,
Ex. A at p. 3 [PH000370].)  Talkdesk therefore
sufficiently alleges a basis for recovery of attorney fees.  Whether this clause applies to the dispute cannot
be determined at this time.  (See Demurrer
at p. 8, fn. 2.)
The
demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action is overruled.
B.        Talkdesk Sufficiently Alleges Engineer’s
Knowledge for Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations (Second Cause
of Action).
Engineer
argues that Talkdesk fails to allege that Engineer knew of the contract at issue
and knew that it was interfering with the contract’s performance.  (Demurrer at pp. 8-9.)
“The
elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff
and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant’s intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Pacific Gas & Electric Co.,
supra, 50 Cal. 3d at p. 1126, fn. 2.)
The
cross-complaint alleges that Andrew T. Pham was bound by his Employment Agreement
and Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement (“PIIA”).  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 32-33.)  “Engineer’s senior executives, including at least
Sachin Duggal and Joe Norena knew of Mr. Pham’s ongoing contractual obligations
to Talkdesk, including those arising from his Employee Agreement and PIIA.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 64.)  This knowledge came, in part, from Pham’s discussions
on behalf of Talkdesk with Engineer’s CEO, Sachin Duggal, about Engineer’s claims.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 34.)  “Mr. Duggal knew or should have known that Mr.
Pham was barred from assisting Engineer in that matter [regarding the MSA], having
known that he worked on that very issue for Talkdesk, but Mr. Duggal pressed Mr.
Pham to betray his obligations to Talkdesk anyway.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 37.)  This sufficiently alleges facts about Engineer’s
knowledge of Talkdesk’s contracts with Pham.
Engineer
intentionally induced Pham “to use Talkdesk confidential, protected, and privileged
information for the benefit of Engineer in suing Talkdesk on the MSA and in assisting
Engineer in its attempted extortion of Talkdesk.,” and “Engineer caused Mr. Pham
to breach his obligation to maintain Talkdesk’s confidential information as confidential
from Engineer and persuaded Mr. Pham instead to actively use Talkdesk protected
and confidential information he learned of as Talkdesk’s fiduciary and lawyer in
Engineer’s complaint filed against Talkdesk in this matter and in the prior April
13, 2022 federal complaint and April 15, 2022 draft complaint.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 65-66.)  This sufficiently alleges facts about Engineer’s
intentional interference.
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled.
C.        Talkdesk Sufficiently Alleges Facts About
the Invoices (First and Fifth Causes of Action).
Engineer
argues that Talkdesk does not allege damages for the first and fifth causes of action
for breach of contract and unfair competition. 
(Demurrer at p. 10.)  Specifically,
“Talkdesk’s sole alleged damage is ‘the amounts that Talkdesk improperly paid Engineer’
in reliance of the invoices that Plaintiffs allegedly falsified,” and “Talkdesk
did not allege that it suffered any damage from invoices that it did not pay, because
it cannot.”  (Ibid.)  Therefore, “the First and Fifth Causes of Action
are insufficient to the extent that they rely on allegations regarding invoices
that Talkdesk never paid.”  (Ibid.)
The
parties agree that “Between February and September of 2020, both Engineer.ai and
Talkdesk fully performed under the MSA.” 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 57, FAC ¶ 17.) 
Engineer later breached the contract by backdating invoices and tendering
false invoices for money not actually owed by Talkdesk.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 60.)  Talkdesk was harmed in at least the amounts that
it improperly paid Engineer in reliance on the falsified invoices.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 61.)  This sufficiently alleges Talkdesk’s damages.  There is no mention of Talkdesk “rely[ing] on
allegations regarding invoices that Talkdesk never paid.”  (See Demurrer at p. 10.)
Engineer
also argues that Talkdesk’s allegations about backdated invoices “borders on frivolous,
as it [is] a basic failure of English language comprehension,” and the term “raising
an invoice” is an unambiguous British expression under which Engineer was fully
compliant.  (Demurrer at p. 11.)  This argument about contractual interpretation
cannot be resolved on demurrer.
The
demurrer to the first and fifth causes of action is overruled.
D.        Talkdesk Sufficiently Alleges a Controversy
for Judicial Determination (Sixth Cause of Action).
Engineer
argues that the sixth cause of action for declaratory relief does not concern any
present rights and duties and is neither necessary nor proper.  (Demurrer at pp. 12-13.)
A
person who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to
another may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties
of the respective parties, bring an action for a declaration of rights or duties,
either alone or with other relief.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1060.)  “The remedy of declaratory
relief is cumulative and does not restrict other remedies.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1062.) . . . The mere fact
that another remedy is available will not suffice as sufficient grounds for a court
to decline a declaration, because declaratory relief is not intended to be exclusive
or extraordinary.”  (Kirkwood v. California
State Automobile Assn. Inter-Ins. Bureau (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 49, 59.)
Talkdesk
“seeks a declaratory judgment that Talkdesk provided proper notice of its intent
to terminate the contract on September 18, 2020, that the contract was validly terminated
on November 2, 2020, and that it is not obligated to pay any invoice for any services
provided by Engineer after that date.”  (Cross-Complaint
¶ 103.)  This is a request for a judicial
declaration about Talkdesk’s legal duty to Engineer in the parties’ actual controversy
about the MSA and Talkdesk’s duty to pay in the future.
The
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled.
MOTION
TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF PRIVILEGE LOG DOCUMENTS
Engineer
produced an April 2024 Privilege Log that identified five documents.  (Motion at p. 4.)  It later produced the document withheld at Entry
No. 1, which Talkdesk contends had “nothing in the document that suggested any basis
for ever withholding the document as privileged.”  (Id. at p. 5.)  Talkdesk now seeks to compel Engineer’s production
of the other four remaining entries.  Talkdesk
provides a copy of Engineer’s April 2024 Privilege Log.  (Van Zant Decl., Ex. 1.)
“A
privilege log must identify with particularity each document the responding party
claims is protected from disclosure by a privilege and provide sufficient factual
information for the propounding party and court to evaluate whether the claim has
merit.”  (Catalina Island Yacht Club v.
Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130 (Catalina).)  Generally, “a privilege log typically should provide
the identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each
allegedly privileged document, the document’s date, a brief description of the document
and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether the privilege
applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.”  (Ibid.)
“Once
the proponent makes a prima facie showing of a confidential attorney-client communication,
it is presumed the communication is privileged and the burden shifts to the opponent
to establish waiver, an exception, or that the privilege does not for some other
reason apply.  The opponent may not rely on
the communication’s content to make that showing.”  (DP Pham, LLC v. Cheadle (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
653, 659-660.)
Item
No. 2 is a February 10, 2020 email from James Barsdorf to Marc Thurlow, which was
also copied to Ankur Chawla, John Keefer, and Karandeep Singh Grover.  It is described as “Email(s) containing a confidential
communication between client and attorney made in the course of their attorney-client
relationship regarding contract with Talkdesk, Inc.”
Item
No. 3 is February 11, 2020 email from James Barsdorf to Sachin Dev Duggal, which
was also copied to Ankur Chawla, Karandeep Singh Grover, John Keefer, Varghese Cherian,
and Marc Thurlow.  It is described as “Email(s)
containing a confidential communication between client and attorney made in the
course of their attorney-client relationship regarding contract with Talkdesk, Inc.”
Item
No. 4 is a July 31, 2020 “reply to comment” by Deepak Tehlan, replying to “[saurabh@engineer.ai];
@sachmans @spd @marc_thurlow.”  It is described
as “Email(s) containing a confidential communication between client and attorney
made in the course of their attorney-client relationship regarding contract with
Talkdesk, Inc.”
Item
No. 5 is undated “Typed word document notes containing a confidential communication
between client and attorney made in the course of their attorney-client relationship
regarding prospective litigation, and material(s) prepared by attorney in anticipation
of the [litigation] reflecting attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
legal research or theories.”
Engineer’s
Privilege Log suggests that a privilege applies for these documents.  Although these items do not identify all parties’
roles, Item Nos. 2-4 include Marc Thurlow, who Talkdesk knows is Engineer’s former
in-house counsel.  (See, e.g., Motion at pp.
4, 7.)  Item No. 5 describes attorney work
product and communications that are privileged.
However,
the Privilege Log does not “provide sufficient factual information for the propounding
party and court to evaluate whether the claim [of privilege] has merit.”  (Catalina, supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at p.
1130.)
Talkdesk
asks the Court to “order Engineer to produce the documents withheld at Entry Nos.
2-4 within five (5) days of entry of such order.”  (Motion at p. 16.)  The Court cannot do so.  Engineer timely objected on the grounds of privilege
and preserved these objections through production of a privilege log, “regardless
of whether the objections were sufficiently detailed in their response or privilege
log and the court, as a matter of law, could not find that they had waived these
privileges.”  (People ex rel. Lockyer v.
Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1060, 1074-1075.)  “When confronted with a deficient privilege log
that fails to provide the necessary information to rule on attorney-client and work
product objections, a trial court may order the responding party to provide a further
privilege log that includes the necessary information to rule on those objections,
but may not order the privileges waived because serving a deficient privilege log,
or even failing to serve a privilege log, is not one of the three statutorily authorized
methods for waiving the attorney-client privilege.”  (Catalina, supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1120 1121.)
In
reply, Talkdesk asks that the Court alternatively order a supplemental privilege
log.
The
motion is granted in part.  Engineer is ordered
to produce a supplemental privilege log that provides sufficient factual information
for Talkdesk and the Court to evaluate whether the claims of privilege have merit,
including “the identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received
each allegedly privileged document, the document’s date, a brief description of
the document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether
the privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.”  (Catalina, supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at p.
1130.)
The
request for sanctions is denied.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer to the FAC’s second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The demurrer to the FAC’s third cause of action
is OVERRULED.  Talkdesk is ordered to file
an answer within 10 days.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)
The
demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Engineer is ordered to file an answer within 10 days.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)
The
motion to compel privilege log documents is GRANTED IN PART.  Engineer is ordered to produce to Talkdesk a supplemental
privilege log pursuant to the above instructions within 30 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 