 Case Number:  22STCV10458    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  30 SOFIA JAMORA vs JAXSON HAYESMotion to Compel Second Session of Plaintiff's DepositionTentative Ruling:  Defendant motion for an order compelling a second deposition of Plaintiff is granted, in part. The requests for sanctions are denied.  Moving party is to give notice of this ruling.Discussion: Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendant objects to statements in Declaration of Waukeen McCoy submitted in support of Plaintiff’s opposition.The first objection is SUSTAINED, and the second objection is OVERRULED.DiscussionDefendant moves for an order compelling a second deposition of Plaintiff.Plaintiff’s deposition occurred on June 2, 2023, and she was questioned about the text messages with her cousins. (Motion Baghdishyan Decl., ¶ 5.) On June 6, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, and on June 10, 2023, Plaintiff served responses to Defendant’s requests. (Id., ¶¶ 6,7.) The responses included 60 pages of copies of additional text messages between Plaintiff and her cousins. (Id., ¶¶ 4, 7.) Because Defendant received copies of additional text messages she did not receive prior to Plaintiff’s deposition, the court finds good cause for a second deposition, but only for the purpose of further questioning about the text messages.The court does not find good cause for a second deposition for further questioning about video evidence or Plaintiff’s tax returns. On March 2, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and on May 15, 2023, Plaintiff served responses. (Id., ¶¶ 2,3.) The responses included screenshots of video files, which Defendant now argues show unexplained gaps in video footage. (Id., ¶ 10.) Thus, Defendant knew or should have known about these purported unexplained gaps prior to Plaintiff’s deposition. The Court does not find persuasive that one of Defendant’s counsel was on family leave from May 1, 2023, to July 24, 2023, and upon return, discovered these purported unexplained gaps. (Reply Baghdishyan Decl., ¶¶ 2, 3.) Regarding Plaintiff’s tax returns, Plaintiff has produced all responsive documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of Plaintiff. (Motion Baghdishyan Decl., ¶¶ 2,3, Exs. A, B.)The court declines to award sanctions to either party. 