 Case Number:  23CHCV02102    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/11/24     Case    Name: Tourney Professional Partners LLC v. Razi Dental, Inc., et al.     Case    # 23CHCV02102      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 11,  2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02102    Motion  filed: 10/19/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Razi Dental, Inc. and Saeid  Razi  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Tourney Professional  Partners, LLC (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court granting the demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint   TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is OVERRULED as to the First and Second Causes of Action. The Demurrer is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND for the Third Cause of Action.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from a dispute over a written lease  agreement between the parties.   On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action, alleging  against Defendants Razi Dental, Inc., Saeid Razi, Daniel D. Durchslag, and Does  1 to 10, for the following causes of action: (1) breach of written contract;  (2) quantum meruit; and (3) declaratory relief.    On October 19, 2023, Defendants Razi  Dental, Inc., and Saeid Razi (the “moving Defendants”) filed  the instant Demurrer.    On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Opposition.  Subsequently, on March 4, 2024, the moving Defendants filed their Reply.   ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure section 430.20 subdivision (a)  provides, in part, that “When any ground for objection to a complaint,  cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face thereof, or from any matter of  which the court is required to or may take judicial notice, the objection on  that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the pleading.” Code of  Civil Procedure § 425.10 subdivision (a)(1) requires a complaint to contain a  “statement of facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise  language.” Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action or discloses a defense that bars recovery, a demurrer is  proper. Johnson v. Superior Court, 25 Cal.App.4th 1564, 1567 (1994). “A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the factual  allegations in a complaint.” Regents of Univ. of California v. Superior  Court, 220 Cal.App.4th 549, 558 (2013). Therefore, it tests the “pleadings  alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters ... [I]t lies only where  the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)   A.     Procedural  Requirements Are Not Satisfied   1.       Meet and Confer Before  filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer in person  or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the  purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of  an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the  demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41,  subd. (a).)             Here, the moving Defendant met the  requirement by filing a Declaration of Meet and Confer (CIV-140) form  concurrently with the Motion.    2.       Timeliness   Code of Civil Procedure section 430.40 subdivision (a)  states, “A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may,  within 30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the  complaint or cross-complaint.”               “If  the parties are not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the  date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an  automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading,  by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due,  a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to  meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not  meet and confer. The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the  responsive pleading was previously due, and the demurring party shall not be  subject to default during the period of the extension. Any further extensions  shall be obtained by court order upon a showing of good cause[.]”(Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a), par. (2).) (Underlines added.)               Here, the moving Defendants, Razi Dental, Inc., and Saeid Razi, were personally  served with the Complaint on July 21 and July 24, 2023, respectively (7/21/23  Proof of Service, 7/25/23 Proof of Service), establishing the deadline for filing  a joint demurrer on behalf of both moving Defendants as August 21, 2023.                           Here, the moving Defendants’  declaration of meet and confer establishes that “[a]t least five days before  the date a responsive pleading was due ...I met and conferred with the party  who filed the pleading[.]” Consequently, the automatic 30-day extension is  inapplicable in this case. Additionally, the Court notes that the case files do  not reflect any records of granted extensions for the Court’s consideration.   The Demurrer was  filed on October 19, 2023, thereby missing the August 21, 2023 deadline,  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.40 subdivision (a).    The Court  observes that the issue of timeliness was not raised in Plaintiff’s Opposition.  Therefore, the Court will proceed to assess the merits of the Demurrer,  operating under the assumption that the parties stipulated an extension during  their meet and confer process.   B.      First Cause  of Action – Breach of Contract   The  Demurrer argues that Defendant Saeid Razi (“Razi DDS”) is not a party to the  alleged lease contract. Additionally, it is argued that the alleged lease  contract, by its own terms, expired on June 30, 2020. (Dem. at 5.) The moving  Defendants assert that these two points demonstrate that the Complaint fails to  state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain, ambiguous,  and unintelligible, citing Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.10 subdivisions  (e) and (f).   In  response, Plaintiff maintains that Defendant Razi DDS was indeed a party to the  contract, as “evidenced by his signature on the AIR Commercial Real Estate  Association Guaranty of Lease, Paragraph 1.11.” This, according to Plaintiff, indicates  that Defendant Razi DDS is a guarantor of the lease despite his “inadvertently  failed to sign.” (Opp’n., at 3.)   Paragraph  1.11 of the “Standard Multi-Tenant Office Lease—Net” (“Standard Lease”)  specifies, “Guarantor: The obligations of the Lessee under this Lease shall be  guaranteed by Seid Razi, DDS and Daniel D. Durchslag, DDS, individually and  collectively (“Guarantor”). (See also Paragraph 37 and Exhibit G.)” (Compl.,  Ex. “1,” at 1.).   Paragraph  37, a preprinted section pertaining to the Guarantor provision, states, in  part, “The Guarantors, if any, shall each execute a guaranty in the form  most recently published by the AIR Commercial Real Estate Association.”  (Underlines added.) (Compl., Ex. “1,” at 12.)   The Court notes  that the AIR COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE ASSOCIATION GUARANTY OF LEASE (“Guaranty of  Lease”) clearly states in its first paragraph, “Saeid Razi, DDS, and Daniel D.  Durchslag, DDS, (individually and collectively) hereinafter ‘Guarantors’ have a  financial interest in the Lease [.]” (Compl., at 65, Ex.”1.”)    The Court  further observes that Razi DDS’s signatures appear on the signature lines of  both the Standard Lease (Compl., Ex. “1,” at 13), and the Guaranty of Lease.  (Compl., at 65, Ex.”1.”) Additionally, the Court notes that the execution date  of the Standard Lease is recorded as “6/8/10” (Compl., Ex. “1,” at 13), whereas  the Guaranty of Lease specifies “On: June ____, 2010,” leaving the exact date within  June 2010 unspecified. (Compl., at 65, Ex.”1.”)  “As the  guaranty was joint and several, the action would lie against either or both of  the guarantors.” (Davenport v. Stratton (1944) 24 Cal.2d 232, 238 (Davenport).)  Where a contract of guaranty  executed in consideration of the execution of the lease expressly recited that  it was annexed to and formed part of the lease and agreement referring to the  lease, the guarantor was estopped from denying liability on the ground that the  lease was not physically attached to the guaranty at the time, guarantor signed  latter document. (Id., at 243.) “While the  ‘allegation [of a complaint] must be accepted as true for purpose of demurrer,’  the ‘facts appearing in exhibits attached to the complaint will also be  accepted as true and, if contrary to the allegations in the pleading, will be  given precedence.” (Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3  Cal.App.5th 1131, 1145-1146 (Moran).)   Here, the  Complaint includes a copy of the alleged lease agreement and guaranty of lease.  Contrary to the moving Defendants’ contention, the Court finds that both  documents bear Defendant Razi DDS’s signature. (See Compl., Ex. “1.”) Even if Defendants’  claim that the signature was missing on the guaranty of lease form were true,  the Court determines that this omission would not be fatal. Paragraph 37 of the  Standard Lease, which Razi DDS undisputedly signs, explicitly lists him as one  of the guarantors. This is consistent with the information stated in the  Guaranty of Lease.   In accordance  with established rules in Davenport and Moran, the Court finds  the moving Defendants’ argument unpersuasive as there is no contradiction in  the Complaint’s attachments that would warrant giving precedence to render the  allegations in the Complaint insufficient to state the first cause of action.   Concerning the  moving Defendants’ second argument that the alleged lease contract, by its own  terms, expired on June 30, 2020, Plaintiff correctly points out that this assertion  does not meet the standard required for a demurrer. In the Complaint, Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants “leased the OFFICE from Plaintiff from July 2010 to  September 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) This assertion of a contractual relationship  beyond the original expiration date is substantiated by the terms of the  Standard Lease. Specifically, Section 26 of the lease contemplates a  permissible automatic extension by stating, “In the event that Lessee holds  over, then the Base Rent shall be increased[.]” This position is further  supported by the evidence that the moving Defendants continued to make lease  payments for the period between January 2020 and August 2022, although the  sufficiency of the amount is disputed. (Compl., Ex. “2.”). Consequently, the  Court finds this argument to lack merit.    Accordingly,  the Court concludes that the Demurrer does not demonstrate sufficient grounds to  establish that the Complaint fails to state sufficient facts or is uncertain as  to the first cause of action.   The Court  OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the first cause of action.   C.     Second Cause  of Action – Quantum Meruit   “‘Quantum  meruit refers to the well-established principle that “the law implies a promise  to pay for services performed under circumstances disclosing that they were not  gratuitously rendered.” [Citation.] To recover in quantum meruit, a party need  not prove the existence of a contract [citations], but it must show the  circumstances were such that “the services were rendered under some  understanding or expectation of both parties that compensation therefor was to  be made.”’” (Miller v. Campbell, Warburton, Fitzsimmons, Smith, Mendel &  Pastore (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1344.) “The underlying idea  behind quantum meruit is the law's distaste for unjust enrichment. If one has  received a benefit which one may not justly retain, one should ‘restore the  aggrieved party to his [or her] former position by return of the thing or its  equivalent in money.’ [Citation.]” (Maglica v. Maglica  (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 442, 449, italics omitted.)                “[Plaintiff] cannot recover for both  breach of contract and quantum meruit (see Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First  Alliance Mortgage Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410,  1419–1420,), but they can plead both causes of action.” (Newport Harbor  Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6 Ca.App.5th 1207,  1223 (New Harbor).)               Here,  the moving Defendants argue that the present case should be distinguished from  the Newport Harbor decision. Specifically, they contend that the Newport  Harbor addresses situations where “a pleader may be in doubt about what  actually occurred, the modern practice allows a party to plead the two causes  of action alternatively and make inconsistent allegations that a reasonable  attorney would find legally tenable.” (Reply, at 3-4, citing Newport Harbor.)  They contend that in this case,   “Plaintiff does not allege inconsistent facts in its Quantum Meruit  claims from those alleged relative to the breach of contract cause of action.”  (Reply, at 4.)               The  Court, however, disagrees with this interpretation. The Newport Habor  ruling states, “[the plaintiffs] were permitted to plead inconsistent counts” in  response to the defendants’ assertion that “the quantum meruit allegations were  inconsistent with the breach of contract allegations.” (Newport Harbor,  at 1221-1222.) Similar to Newport Harbor, the inconsistency is considered  inherent to the causes of action themselves, between the breach of contract and  quantum merit. Furthermore, Newport Harbor elaborates that “when a  pleader is in doubt about what actually occurred or what can be established  by the evidence, the modern practice allows that party to plead in the  alternative and make inconsistent allegations. (Id., at 1222, citing Mendoza  v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.) (Underlines  added.) Here, Plaintiff is permitted to please Quantum Meruit in the  alternative, as it cannot be definitely stated that there is no doubt what can  be established by the evidence regarding the breach of contract cause of  action.               Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the second cause of action – quantum  meruit.   D.     Third Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief   Code of Civil  Procedure section 1060 authorizes actions for declaratory relief under a  “written instrument” or “contract.” Declaratory relief generally operates  prospectively to declare future rights, rather than to redress past wrongs. (Babb v. Superior Court (1971) 3 Cal.3d 841, 848.)   “The fact that the  procedure operates prospectively does not create a conflict with the  established principle that redress for past wrongs may be had in a proper  action for declaratory relief.” (Travers v. Louden (1967) 254  Cal.App.2d 926, 931.)    “In Columbia Pictures Corp. v. DeToth, 26 Cal.2d 753, and Ermolieff v. R.K.O. Radio Pictures, 19 Cal.2d 543, the  right to redress for past breaches of contract was recognized, but in each  case the contract had some time to run and there was need for a declaration as  to the future conduct of the parties thereunder. Of course, neither case  stands for the proposition that a declaration with respect to past wrongs would  be proper when there was no occasion to define respective rights which would  govern the future conduct of the parties.” (Ibid.) (Underlines added.)   In  the current case, while the Complaint adequately demonstrates a controversy as  to the payments owed by Defendants, it is uncontested that the alleged lease  agreement concluded in September 2022. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Consequently,  declaratory relief is not appropriate when it does not pertain to the future actions  of Defendants.    Moreover,  the Court determines that there is no reasonable prospect that the identified deficiency  can be cured by an amendment. Therefore, leave to amend is NOT GRANTED.    Accordingly,  in accordance with established California rules, the Court SUSTAINS WITHOUT  LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the third cause of action - declaratory  relief.   CONCLUSION   The  Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the First and Second Causes of Action. The Demurrer  is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND for the Third Cause of Action.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.  