 Case Number:  23TRCV01124    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 February 22, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01124
 
CASE NAME:                        Vinetta Waller-Ngangu v. Kohl’s, Inc., et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Kohl’s, Inc.  
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Vinetta Waller-Ngangu (No Opposition)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.                 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for an Order that Requests be Deemed Admitted Against Plaintiff,
Vinetta Waller-Ngangu
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
                                                
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion for an Order that Requests be Deemed Admitted Against Plaintiff,
Vinetta Waller-Ngangu is GRANTED
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
                                                
 
  
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
      On April 11, 2023, Plaintiff, Vinetta
Waller-Ngangu, filed a Complaint against Defendant, Kohl’s Inc., and DOES 1
through 75. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Premises Liability;
and (2) General Negligence. 
 
On
July 25, 2023, Defendant Kohl’s propounded its first set of Requests for
Admission on Plaintiff’s prior counsel. Kohl’s notes that Plaintiff’s former
counsel sought numerous extensions of time to serve Plaintiff’s responses to
RFA’s. The last extension was requested on October 2, 2023, where Plaintiff’s
counsel sought a three-week extension to October 24, 2023. Instead, Kohls notes
that it granted a two-week extension, making discovery due on October 17, 2023.
Nonetheless, Defendant Kohl’s notes that Plaintiff’s prior counsel did not
serve the responses on October 17, 2023. 
 
      On October 17, 2023, per the moving papers
Plaintiff’s prior counsel contacted Kohl’s to ask for another extension to
November 7, 2023 and stated they were “still having issues getting a hold of
Plaintiff, Ms. Waller-Ngangu.” Kohl’s notes that its counsel responded on
October 25, 2023 noting that responses were already past due and that Kohl’s
expected Plaintiff to provide responses, without objection, by November 7,
2023. 
 
On
November 30, 2023, Plaintiff’s former counsel filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel, which was subsequently granted by this Court on January 2, 2024. 
            
Defendant
Kohl’s now moves for an order deeming all requests in Defendant’s Requests for
Admission, Set One as admitted, and imposing sanctions against Plaintiff in the
among of $935.
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On January 24, 2024, Defendant
Kohl’s filed a Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in that
Requests for Admission, Set One, Admitted. To date, no opposition has been
filed. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2033.280(c), the court shall make the order deeming the truth of the matters
admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires that
each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge. As stated in Demyer v. Costa Mesa
Mobile Home Estates, the moving party is not required to meet and confer
before bringing this action. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates,
36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court
may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery
process includes failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿ 
 
            B.
Discussion  
 
Defendant
Kohl’s notes that on July 25, 2023, it served its RFAs, Set One on Plaintiff.
However, despite Kohl’s granting of multiple extensions, and waiting months for
Plaintiff to respond to said discovery, Plaintiff has failed to serve verified
responses, or any responses at all, to Kohl’s propounded discovery. Because of
this, the Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT Defendant’s motion. However, the
Court also notes that because it has recently granted Plaintiff’s former
counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel, the Court will allow oral argument
as to whether Plaintiff has obtained new counsel. 
 
 
 
            
            C. Sanctions 
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose
a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone
because of that conduct.  Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond
or submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿2023.010(d)). 
 
            Along with Kohl’s’ Motion to Deem Requests for Admission,
Set One, as admitted, Kohl’s also included a Request for Monetary Sanctions in
the amount of $935. This amount is based on counsel for Kohl’s, Ara M.
Baghdassarian’s hourly rate of $350, spending two and a half hours preparing
Kohl’s moving papers, and $60 of costs. Although the Court finds that the hours
spent on this motion, and Defendant’s counsel’s hourly rate being reasonable,
this Court notes that the granting of this motion is devastating to Plaintiff’s
claim. The Requests for Admission that this Court is tentatively inclined to
deem as admitted are nearly tantamount to a motion to dismiss Plaintiff’s claim
against Defendant, Kohl’s. Monetary sanctions are thus denied, without
prejudice to be reasserted if and when Plaintiff seeks relief from the deemed
admissions.    
¿ 
IV. CONCLUSION  
¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendant’s Motions to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted is GRANTED. Requests
for Monetary Sanctions are Denied without prejudice. 
¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.
 