 Case Number:  23LBCV01066    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundOn June 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants America Honda Motor, Co., Inc. and Does 1 to 10, alleging four causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(a)(3); and (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability. The complaint asserts that on December 28, 2020, Plaintiff entered a warranty contract with Defendant for a 2020 Honda CR-V vehicle identification number 7FARW1H82LE022890 (“subject vehicle”) and that defects and/or nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves in the vehicle, yet Defendant failed to fix the alleged defects. (Compl., ¶¶ 7-11.)Legal Standard“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”(Code Civ. Proc., 2031.310, subd. (a).)Next, the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)Meet and ConferThe Court finds the meet and confer requirements have been fulfilled.Tentative RulingsPlaintiff moves to compel further responses Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-3, 7, 9, 12, 17, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 31, 32, 39, 40, 41, 45, 49, 51, 54, 56, 57, 74, 75, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86.Request No. 1 seeks all documents regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE maintained in all databases. The request is overly broad as it asks for “all databases.” Further, Defendant did provide documents in its initial response without waiving its asserted objections. This request is DENIED except as to additional documents disclosable under the protective order.Request No. 2 asks for all documents concerning the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The Court finds that Defendant did provide a substantive response to the request. Accordingly, this request is DENIED except as to additional documents disclosable under the protective order.Request No. 3 seeks any investigation reports and/or studies conducted regarding root cause or failure analysis of parts repaired or replaced on the SUBJECT VEHICLE. This request is DENIED as Defenant has indicated it is unable to comply with this request, finding no responsive documents, after making a diligent search and reasonable inquiry.Request No. 7 asks for recalls, technical service bulletins, special service messages, etc. issued for the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The request is DENIED as overboard and vague. Additionally, the request seeks information/documentation for concerns in which the vehicle was never presented for service or not at issue in this litigation. Further, Defenant indicated it is unable to comply with this request, finding no responsive documents, after making a diligent search and reasonable inquiry.Request No. 9 asks for vehicle data recovery reports for the subject vehicle. The request is DENIED. Plaintiff does not specifically identify vehicle data recovery reports. Further, Defenant has indicated it is unable to comply with this request, finding no responsive documents, after making a diligent search and reasonable inquiry.Request No. 12 request pre-sale documents available to purchasers or lessees disclosing a problem, failures malfunctions, or defect(s) regarding the ENGINE DEFECT(S) in HONDA VEHICLES equipped with the 1.5L engine like the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The request is DENIED. Plaintiff’s definition in its Requests for Production of Document, Set One, forENGINE DEFECT(S) is broad and vaguely characterized. Moreover, HONDA VEHICLES goes beyond the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Discovery should be limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.Request Nos 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 31, 39, 40, 41, 49, 51 are DENIED. The requests are overly broad as the ask for documents related to ENGINE DEFECT(S), HONDA VEHICLE, and/or 1.5L engine. The 1.5L engine, which is included in the definition of ENGINE DEFECT(S), is also overly broad and is not described in reasonable particularity.Request No. 45 asks for user manuals for Defendant’s databases: warranty database, customer complaint database, vehicle information database, field report database, supplier database, etc. This request is DENIED as burdensome, overly broad, irrelevant.Request No. 54 asks for all documents used or currently in use since 2020 to evaluate consumer requests for repurchases or replacements. This request is DENIED because it is not described with reasonable particularity and may be interpreted as asking for information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work-product doctrine.Request No. 56 asks for all training manuals and/or documents since 2020 related to training for handling consumer lemon law repurchase requests. This request is DENIED because it is not described with reasonable particularity and may be interpreted as asking for information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work-product doctrine. Lastly, Defendant has stated it is unable to comply after an already conducted a reasonable and diligent search.Request No. 57 asks for warranty policy and procedure manuals published by Defendant and provided to authorized repair facility(s) within California since 2020. This request is DENIED because Defendant has provided a copy of sections 3 and 5, directed to warranty repair, from its 2020-2023 Services Operations Manual. Also, Defendant asserts it is unable to comply in producing a “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” after an already conducted a reasonable and diligent search.Request No. 74 asks for all documents communicated with government agencies and Defendant regarding ENGINE DEFECT(S) in HONDA VEHICLES. This request is DENIED because it is overly broad as well as vague and ambiguous. To elaborate, the definitions of HONDA VEHICLES and ENGINE DEFECT(S) are overly broad, vague and ambiguous.Request No. 75 asks for all communications and documents related to supplier of 1.5L engine. This request is DENIED because Plaintiff does not specify the specific symptoms ENGINE DEFECT(S) of the 1.5L engine installed in the SUBJECT VEHICLE.Request No. 82 asks for dealer agreement with Honda authorized dealer that sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to Plaintiff. This request is DENIED as it is not relevant and overly broad.Request No. 83 asks for the specific dealer agreement with Honda repair facilities in which the SUBJECT VEHICLE underwent any repair attempts. This request is DENIED because it is not relevant and overly broad.Request No. 84 asks for all documents regarding any special service message issued or in the process of being issued for HONDA VEHICLES. This request DENIED as HONDA VEHICLES is overly broad.Request No. 85 asks for all documents regarding any field service action issued or in the process of being issued for HONDA VEHICLES. This request DENIED as HONDA VEHICLES is overly broad.Request No. 86 asks for all documents concerning performance standards relating to the 1.5L engine in HONDA VEHICLES. This request DENIED as HONDA VEHICLES is overly broad.No sanctions have been requested by either party.