 Case Number:  22STCV36814    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  45 CARIN MEYER v. larry benson
construction, inc. et al. 
 
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
Date of Hearing:          01/07/24                                 Trial Date: 04/14/25
Department:               45                                            Case
No.:  22STCV36814
 
Moving Party:             Sawdust
Custom Cabinets, Inc.
Responding Party:       None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff filed her Complaint on or
about November 21, 2022, against BENSON, SAWDUST, and other parties including
Does 1 through 50, inclusive, for alleged defects in the design and
construction of a single-family home located at 24702 Cordillera Drive,
Calabasas, CA (“Property”). The Complaint alleged causes of action for 1)
Breach of Contract; 2) Negligence; 3) Breach of Warranty; 4) Violation of
B&P Code § 7031; and 5) Recovery on License Bond.
 
On November 5, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Sawdust
Custom Cabinets, Inc. filed the instant action. As of January 2, 2025, no
oppositions have been filed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, a court may
approve a settlement by determining it was made in good faith, and such a
determination shall bar any other joint tortfeasor from further claims against
the settling tortfeasor. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) "A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault." (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) The burden is
on the party asserting the lack of good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).)
 
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal. 3d 488, the California Supreme Court set forth factors to
consider when determining whether a settlement was made in good faith: (1) a
rough approximation of plaintiff's total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants.
The trial court enjoys broad discretion in determining
whether a settlement was entered in good faith and in allocating potential
liability and exposure among joint tortfeasors. (Norco Delivery Services v.
Owens Corning Fiberglass (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 955, 962.) A reviewing court
will "assess whether the good faith determination is buttressed by any
substantial evidence." (Ibid.)
 
In City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, the court of appeal upheld the trial court's determination
that an uncontested motion for good faith settlement was entered in good faith
when the moving papers had not provided information concerning all of the Tech-Bilt
factors, but only stated the amount of the settlement and the policy limits.
The court first noted that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 had not been
amended to add procedural requirements since the decision in Tech-Bilt,
and approved the following procedure:
 
"This court notes that of the
hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court
approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted
summarily by the trial court. At the time of filing in many cases, the moving
party does not know if a contest will develop. If each motion required a full
recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response
to all of the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of attorney hours would be
consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered by trial
courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal time and
clients' resources. It must also be remembered that Tech-Bilt was decided on a
contested basis. We are unaware of any reported decision which has reversed an
uncontested good faith determination and we, therefore, conclude that only when
the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the
trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say,
when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good
faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the
case is sufficient." 
 
(City of Grand Terrace, 192 Cal.
App.3d at p. 1261 (emphasis added).)
 
Once evidence of the good faith of a settlement has been
presented, the burden remains on any challenging party to establish a lack of
good faith. (Ibid; Code Civ. Pro., § 877.6 subd., (d).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Merits

 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Sawdust Custom
Cabinets, Inc.’s (“Sawdust”) Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
is granted. Sawdust seeks a determination that its settlement with Plaintiff
Carin Meyer, CRM Trust, and Defendant/ Cross-Complainant Larry Benson
Construction, Inc. and Larry Benson is in good faith, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 877 and 877.6, et seq., and in satisfaction of factors set forth
in Tech-Bilt. Sawdust also seeks a dismissal with prejudice of the
complaint and cross-complaints, and of all actual and potential claims against
SAWDUST by Plaintiff, Defendants, Cross-Defendants, Cross-Complainants,
intervenors, lien holders and insurance carriers, and by any other actual or
potential party for partial or comparative equitable contribution, including
whole or total contribution, and/or for partial or comparative indemnity,
including whole or total indemnity, are forever barred.
 
Sawdust’s Motion sets for the ground of good faith and is
accompanied by the Declaration of Thomas S. Squillaro which presents a brief
background of the case and settlement terms. Mr. Squillaro declares that “[t]he
settlement between Plaintiff, CRM TRUST, BENSON, and SAWDUST was achieved
through negotiations at mediation on March 9, 2024 with mediator, Judge Richard
Stone (Ret.). Plaintiff, BENSON, SAWDUST, and other parties named in this
action were participants at the mediation. The settlement negotiations between
Plaintiff, CRM TRUST, BENSON, and SAWDUST were at arm’s length, and have been
entered into freely and without any fraud, collusion or other tortious conduct.”
(Squillaro Decl. ¶ 6.) Moreover, Mr.Squillaro further declares that “the
settlement took into account all information and investigation known to
Plaintiff, CRM TRUST, BENSON, and SAWDUST at the time of the settlement,
including litigation expenses that may be incurred without settlement.” (Id.
at ¶ 7.) 
 
Based on Plaintiff’s Cost of Repair, BENSON allocated repair
costs to SAWDUST in the amount of $105,000.05, exclusive of any Stearman costs.
(Id. at ¶ 4.) 
 
The settlement is as follows: “a: Payment on behalf of
SAWDUST will be made to Plaintiff in the sum of $45,000.00 (Forty-Five Thousand
Dollars and No Cents); b. The settlement will include a release to BENSON and
SAWDUST of all claims and issues related in any way to SAWDUST’s work and/or
involvement at the Property and that are the subject of this lawsuit; c.
Plaintiff, CRM TRUST, BENSON, and SAWDUST each waive any rights and benefits
under Civil Code, § 1542; d. SAWDUST denies any wrongdoing or liability to
Plaintiff, BENSON, or another parties; and e. The settlement is contingent upon
a determination that the settlement between Plaintiff, BENSON, and SAWDUST is
in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 877 and 877.6 . . .” (Id.
at ¶ 5.) Notably, no oppositions have been filed.  The court finds the settlement amount to be
reasonable and made in good faith in light of the potential liability of this
defendant and the risks of litigation.   
 
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 