 Case Number:  22STCV35740    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant’s Motion To Compel Plaintiff Manuk
Pashanyan’s Responses To Form Interrogatories, Set Three And For Sanctions
Against Plaintiff And His Counsel.
 
In this case, MANUK PASHANYAN (“Plaintiff”) seeks
damages from PACIFIC SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (“Defendant”) for allegedly
refusing to pay Plaintiff’s water-loss insurance claim.  
Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff to provide
complete responses, without objections, to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories,
Set Three, and for $1,410.00 in sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel.
Defendant served Plaintiff with the form interrogatories on May 16, 2023.
(Maddock Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff did not serve responses timely, and still did
not serve responses even after Plaintiff provided Defendant an extension to
serve objection-free responses in July 2023. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Prior to the hearing on this motion, however,
Plaintiff served verified responses to the form interrogatories. (Der-Tatevossian
Decl., Ex. 1.) The Court exercises its discretion to consider Plaintiff’s
late-filed opposition, particularly given that it contains the interrogatory
responses served by Plaintiff. The service of the responses to the form interrogatories moots the motion to compel. The Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions
because CCP section 2030.290(c) provides for sanctions only against a party “who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel” and Plaintiff’s opposition
was successful in that it confirmed that Plaintiff has now
served verified responses. 
Defendant argues in its reply that Plaintiff’s
responses contain objections even though Plaintiff waived his objections by not
serving timely responses. The Court exercises its discretion not to consider the
objections currently, and to instead order the parties to meet and confer on
this issue. The Court notes, however, that Plaintiff waived his objections to
the form interrogatories when he failed to serve timely responses, which means
he cannot answer an interrogatory asking for facts regarding an RFA denial by objecting
that the RFA is vague and ambiguous. If the parties reach an impasse on Plaintiff’s
responses to Defendant’s form interrogatories, then they should schedule an IDC
prior to Defendant filing any motion to compel further responses to the form
interrogatories.
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
The Court expects parties to participate in an IDC before pursuing a motion to
compel further responses. It does not expect parties to use the IDC
process where, as was the case here, a party seeks to compel initial
responses. Thus, no good cause exists for imposing sanctions against Defendant.
Finally, the Court expects the parties to schedule an
IDC regarding Defendant’s motions to compel further responses to its special
interrogatories and requests for admission, currently set for hearing on
3/28/24 and 4/8/24, respectively. Counsel should be prepared to schedule a date
with the Court for such an IDC at the hearing on 2/6/24. 
 