

 
SERVICE:  
 
[No POS] Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)           [OK/NOT
OK]
[No] Correct
Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                    [OK/NOT OK]
            [No] 16/21
Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                     [OK/NOT
OK]
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on 09/06/2024                            [   ] Late                      [ ] None
 
REPLY:                     None as
of 9/19/2024                          [   ]
Late                      [ ] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On May 23, 2024, Petitioner Harout
Keuroghlian; Serdar Dagkesen; and Johnhart Corp. (collectively Petitioners)
filed a petition to vacate the arbitration award obtained by Patricia Petralia;
Jeb Stuart Adams; and XQB Management, Inc (Respondents). Petitioners move to
vacate the award on the grounds that the award was obtained through corruption,
fraud or unfair means, the arbitrator was corrupt, the misconduct of the
arbitrator substantially prejudiced petitioners’ rights, the arbitrator failed
to hear evidence useful to settle the dispute, and the arbitrator failed to
timely disclose grounds for disqualification. 
 
II.                
Legal Standard 
 
The court’s
authority when a contractual arbitration has occurred is extremely limited. “It
is well settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is
extremely narrow.” (California Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) The merits of the controversy are generally not
reviewable by the court when a petition to confirm or vacate is presented. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 10-11 .) The court will neither
review the sufficiency of the evidence to support an award nor the validity of
the reasoning. (Morris v. Zuckerman (1968) 69 Cal.2d 686, 691.)  The trial court’s review is restricted “to
whether the award should be vacated under the grounds listed in section
1286.2.” (EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.¿(2018)
21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1064.)
 
III.             
Discussion 
 
A.   
Service of Petition and Notice of Hearing
 
“A petition to vacate an award or to correct an award shall
be served and filed not later than 100
days after the date of the service of a signed copy of the
award on the petitioner.” (Code Civ. Proc., §1288.) 
 
Petitioners filed the petition on May 23, 2024. The attached
arbitration award is dated April 9, 2024. Thus, the petition was timely filed.
Petitioners do not provide the court with proof of service of the petition upon
Respondents. However, Respondents do not object on the grounds of insufficient or
untimely service. Accordingly, the court hears the merits of the argument. 
 
B.    
The Award was Obtained by Corruption, Fraud, or
Unfair Mean; the Arbitrator was Corrupt; The Arbitrator’s Misconduct
Substantially Prejudiced Petitioner’s Rights. 
 
Petitioners argue the Arbitrator
was corrupt and/or biased for three reasons: (1) he refused to refer to Respondents
by their legal name due to “difficulty in pronunciation” and called them the
Hart Team, (2) during closing arguments, a member of Respondents’ team went off
screen for three minutes contrary to the procedures for the hearing and (3) at
the conclusion of the hearing, the Arbitrator asked whether Petitioners (Respondents
during the hearing) felt the matter was handled fairly and Petitioners
reluctantly agreed. 
 
“[A]n award may be vacated if
‘the record reveals facts which might create an impression of possible bias in
the eyes of the hypothetical, reasonable person.’ ” (Roitz v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 716, 723.) “When
reviewing a charge of bias, the litigants’ necessarily partisan views should
not provide the applicable frame of reference.” (Id. at p. 724.) “Potential
bias and prejudice must clearly be established [citation] and statutes
authorizing disqualification of a judge on grounds of bias must be applied with
restraint.” (Ibid.) “Neither strained relations between a judge and an
attorney for a party nor expressions of opinion uttered by a judge, in what he
conceived to be a discharge of his official duties, are evidence of bias or
prejudice.” (Ibid. [internal quotations, brackets, and ellipses
omitted].)
 
Petitioners’ argument regarding
names appears to be an implicit argument that the Arbitrator lacked impartiality.
However, the statement does not identify any traditional indication of bias.
(See Cobler v. Stanley, Barber, Southard, Brown & Associates (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 518, 527 [“A person appointed as neutral arbitrator shall
disclose to the AAA any circumstances likely to affect impartiality, including
any bias or any financial or personal interest in the result of the arbitration
or any past or present relationship with the parties or their counsel.”].) With
respect to the names, though it may demonstrate the Arbitrator was somewhat
intractable on referring to the parties by their names, Petitioners do not
provide evidence linking this conduct to fraud or corruption. Without more, it
appears purely speculative that the Arbitrator’s decision to call Petitioners
the “Hart Team” demonstrates corruption, fraud, or undue influence. 
 
Regarding the offscreen conduct, Petitioners
point to the procedural requirements that “All parties are expected to appear
on camera” (Ex. A. at p. 1.) Petitioners then contend the entire arbitration
award should be vacated because during closing arguments, Respondent Jeb Adams
“left the room and d[id] not return until more than three minutes later. . .”
and he placed something in his pocket. Petitioners offer no evidence that
something untoward happened during those three minutes. Petitioners also refer
to the rules of confidentiality, but there is no evidence that Adams somehow
revealed confidential information during his three-minute break. It seems
equally, if not more likely, that nothing improper happened and Adams simply
stepped out of the room for a brief personal reason. Nor have Petitioners
identified any reason why the arbitration hearing was compromised due to the
three-minute break. While it appears Adams leaving the room would violate the
procedural requirements, and the arbitrator did not take action, Petitioners
must demonstrate prejudice due to the conduct. This evidence is lacking. 
 
Finally, regarding Petitioners’
acquiescence to the process of the hearing, there is nothing demonstrating the Arbitrator
engaged in any misconduct. Petitioners have identified that with some
reluctance they agreed the arbitration was sufficient. Nothing about that
suggests the arbitrator engaged in corruption, undue influence, or fraud. 
 
Accordingly, the award will not be vacated on any of these
grounds. 
 
C.    
The Arbitrator Exceeded their Authority.
 
Next, Petitioners argue that the Arbitrator exceeded his
authority by improperly ruling on three different objections to evidence. 
 
“[T]he refusal of the arbitrators
to hear evidence material to the controversy” is grounds to vacate an
arbitration award. (Code Civ. Proc., §1286.2, subd. (a)(5).) “The provision was
designed as a safety valve in private arbitration that permits a court to
intercede when an arbitrator has prevented a party from fairly presenting its
case. [Citation.] It comes into play, for example, when an arbitrator, without
justification, permits only one side to present evidence on a disputed material
issue. [Citation.] The Arbitration Act codifies the fundamental principle that
arbitration should give both parties an opportunity to be heard.” (Bacall v.
Shumway (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 950, 963. [internal quotations and brackets
omitted]) “Where, as here, a party complains of excluded material evidence, the
reviewing court should generally focus first on prejudice, not materiality. To
find substantial prejudice the court must accept, for purposes of analysis, the
arbitrator’s legal theory and conclude that the arbitrator might well have made
a different award had the evidence been allowed.” (Hall v. Superior Ct. (1993)
18 Cal.App.4th 427, 439.) 
 
Here, the three objections at
issue are with the Arbitrator’s alleged misdescription of the rules of evidence
in the proceeding, overruling a hearsay objection, and a dispute regarding the
scope of questioning and whether the questioning was permissible. In each of
these examples, Petitioners hinge their argument on a “disappointment with an
arbitration decision [which] is not sufficient to prove substantial prejudice.”
(Royal All. Assocs., Inc. v. Liebhaber (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1109.)
These are not the types of evidentiary controversies which give rise to
vacating an arbitration, such as preventing one side from wholly presenting its
case or presenting evidence on a disputed issue. Instead, these appear to be
disputes on specific rulings, none of which were dispositive. Petitioners have
not demonstrated that the Arbitrator denied them the opportunity to present
material evidence in a manner which would have changed the Arbitrator’s ruling.
 
The award will not be vacated on any of these grounds. 
 
D.   
The Arbitrator Failed to Postpone the Hearing or Hear Evidence
Useful to Settle the Dispute.
 
Petitioners next argue the Arbitrator refused to permit
impeaching testimony of Jeb Adams, narrowed the scope of Petitioners’
questioning in a manner Petitioners’ counsel disagreed with, and refused to
permit certain evidence because the arbitrator contended the evidence had
already been presented to the panel. 
 
Similar to the prior discussion, in each of these cases, Petitioners
are disputing individual evidentiary rulings. However, Petitioners have not
demonstrated either that the Arbitrator denied Petitioners the opportunity to
present sufficient evidence that would have changed the Arbitrator’s ruling or
suffered any specific prejudice because of these rulings.
 
The award will not be vacated on any of these grounds.
 
E.    
The Arbitrator Failed to Disclose Within the Time for
Disclosure a Ground for Disqualification Which the Arbitrator was Then Aware. 
 
Finally, Petitioners argue the arbitrator failed to timely disclose
a current case he had with counsel Jonathan Malek and he should have been
disqualified.
 
The court “shall vacate the
award” if the arbitrator making the award “failed to disclose within the time
required for disclosure a ground for disqualification for which the arbitrator
was then aware”. (Code Civ. Proc., §1286.2, subd. (a)(6).) “A party who does
not move to disqualify an arbitrator prior to the commencement of arbitration
may nevertheless seek vacation of an arbitration award on the ground that the
arbitrator “failed to disclose within the time required for disclosure a ground
for disqualification of which the arbitrator was then aware.” (International
Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, etc. v. Laughon (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 1380, 1386 (International Alliance).) This supports that a trial
court is required to vacate an arbitration award once it is shown that the
arbitrator “failed to make the required disclosure in a timely fashion.” (Ibid.)
 
However, since International
Alliance was decided, other courts have expanded upon it to note that “[w]hile
an arbitrator has a duty to disclose all of the details required to be
disclosed pursuant to section 1281.9 and the Ethics Standards, a party aware
that a disclosure is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the statutory
disclosure requirements cannot passively reserve the issue for consideration
after the arbitration has concluded. Instead, the party must disqualify the
arbitrator on that basis before the arbitration begins.” (United Health
Centers of San Joaquin Valley, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
63, 85 (United Health).)
 
Here, the Arbitrator filled out a disclosure form. (Ex. D.)
The form requires the arbitrator to answer the following question: 
 
Are you serving, or
within the preceding five (5) years, have you served as a neutral arbitrator in
another arbitration involving a party to the current arbitration, a lawyer for
the party or other lawyer currently practicing law with an attorney for a party.
 
Petitioners
and Respondents agree that the Arbitrator answered in the affirmative on the
form but failed to initially disclose an ongoing matter with counsel Jonathan
Malek. Instead, the arbitrator disclosed the relationship just prior to
commencement of the arbitration proceeding. At that time, the Arbitrator
disclosed the issue, stated he had made an error in filing out the disclosure form
and then asked Petitioners if they would like him to recuse himself. They
declined. Under the more recent United Health case, Petitioners’ failure
to object or request disqualification at the time the Arbitrator made the
disclosure renders Section 1286.2 inapplicable. 
 
The award will not be vacated on any of these grounds.
 
IV.             
Conclusion & Order
 
The Petitioners’ Petition to Vacate
the Arbitration Award is DENIED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 
 
 