 Case Number:  23STCV28228    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Keck
Medical Center of USC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint
Demurrer
Defendant Keck
Medical Center of USC demurs to both causes of action alleged by plaintiff
Jennifer L. Cosper’s first amended complaint.
1. Medical Malpractice
Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts to constitute medical malpractice.  “The
elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss
or damage.”  (Johnson v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.)
Plaintiff filed
the first amended complaint on Judicial Council of California form PLD-PI-001.  Paragraph 10 of the form states, “The
following causes of action are attached and the statements above apply to each
(each complaint must have one or more causes of action attached).”  (FAC, p. 3, ¶ 10.)  Under it, plaintiff checked the box for
“Other” causes of action and wrote “Medical Malpractice, Negligence.”  (Ibid.)  She did not attach any additional form for
the causes of action.  The Judicial
Council of California has issued form PLD-PI-001(2) as the attachment for
“General Negligence.” 
For paragraph 11,
plaintiff checked the boxes stating she “has suffered … wage loss,” “hospital
and medical expenses,” “general damage,” “loss of earning capacity” and “other
damage” she described as “Severe Psychological trauma, Accumulation of
additional NEW breathing issues, Pain, Disfigurement, Need for additional
surgery, Abandonment of Care.”  (FAC, p.
3, ¶ 11.)  
At most, plaintiff
alleges the loss or damage resulting from the purported medical malpractice.  The first amended complaint does not allege
any facts establishing a duty to use professional care, a breach of the duty,
or that the breach proximately caused those injuries.  She does not allege, for example, that she
underwent certain treatment at Keck Medical Center for a specified condition at
a specified time or that the treatment was inadequate.  She has not alleged sufficient facts
apprising defendant of the basis for this claim against it.
2.
Negligence
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts to constitute negligence.  Negligence requires “a legal duty to use due
care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury.”  (Beacon
Residential Community Assn. v. Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP (2014) 59
Cal.4th 568, 573.)  For the same reasons as
above, plaintiff has alleged at most the loss or damages resulting from the
purported negligence.  The first amended
complaint does not allege any facts establishing a duty to use care, a breach
of such legal duty, or that the breach caused her injuries.  In other words, plaintiff’s first amended
complaint does not explain what defendant did to her that constituted
negligence.  
Motion to Strike
            Defendant Keck Medical Center
of USC moves
to strike the first amended complaint’s prayer for punitive damages.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.13(a), “In any action for damages arising out of the professional
negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be
included in a complaint” without a court order upon a motion by the plaintiff.  This is an action for damages arising out of
the professional negligence of Keck Medical Center of USC, a health care
provider.  The court must strike the
prayer for punitive damages.  If plaintiff
chooses to pursue punitive damages, she may file a motion for leave to amend
the complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13.    
Disposition
            Defendant Keck Medical Center of USC’s
demurrer to plaintiff Jennifer L. Cosper’s first amended complaint is sustained
with 30 days’ leave to amend.  
Defendant’s
motion to strike portions of plaintiff’s first amended complaint is granted.  The court hereby strikes the following
portion of the first amended complaint: “punitive damages” (FAC, form
PLD-PI-001, p. 3, ¶ 14.a(2).)  Plaintiff
may not amend the complaint to pray for punitive damages without first filing a
motion for leave to do so under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13.