 Case Number:  22STC36230    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LUCILA RAQUEL MARAVILLA Aguillon, et al.,
  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PARALLAX PROPERTIES LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV36230
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR DETERMINATION
  OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 20, 2024



 
On
November 16, 2022, Plaintiffs Lucila Raquel Maravilla Aguillon, Walter Javier Maldonado
Orellana, Fabian Soto Aguirre, Kaira Yailyn Rodriguez (a minor by and through her
Guardian Ad Litem, Lucila Raquel Maravilla Aguillon), Jade Yaxelly Rodriguez (a
minor by and through her Guardian Ad Litem, Lucila Raquel Maravilla Aguillon), and
Scarlett Crismari Maldonado Rodriguez (a minor by and through her Guardian Ad Litem,
Lucila Raquel Maravilla Aguillon) filed this habitability action.
On
July 17, 2024, Defendants Parallax Properties LLC or Xenon Investment Corp. filed
an application for determination of good faith settlement.
Any
party to an action with two or more joint tortfeasors may petition the court for
a determination of the issue of the good faith of a settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)  The court’s approval of the settlement furthers
two sometimes-competing policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs among the parties
at fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements.  (Erreca’s v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
1475, 1487.)  To demonstrate a lack of good
faith, a non-settling party must show that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of Section 877.6.  (Nutrition Now, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)  The Court
will typically consider: (1) the plaintiff’s (roughly) approximated total recovery;
(2) the settlor’s share of liability; (3) the size of the settlement at issue; (4)
the distribution of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (5) the usual discount
value when plaintiffs settle before trial; the settlor’s financial condition and
insurance policy limits; and (6) whether there is evidence of “collusion, fraud,
or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  These factors
will be evaluated according to what information is available at the time of settlement.  (Ibid.)  “When no one objects, the barebones motion which
sets forth the ground for good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth
a brief background of the case is sufficient” for the Court to grant a motion for
determination of good faith settlement.  (City
of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.)
The
motion and counsel’s declaration set out the background of this case and the terms
of the settlement.  Under the settlement,
Defendants will pay Plaintiffs a confidential sum that takes into account waiver
of more than $23,000 of back rent.  (Citron
Decl. ¶ 13.)  Defendants understand that the
settlement sum is larger or the same amount reached by and between Temeku and Plaintiffs.  (Citron Decl. ¶ 14.)  Defendants believe that liability, if any, would
have been attributed primarily to Temeku, and Plaintiffs proffered very limited
evidence to support their claim for damages. 
(Citron Decl. ¶¶ 11, 15.)  Counsel
declares that the settlement was the result of good faith negotiations and does
not involve any collusion or wrongful conduct. 
(Citron Decl. ¶ 17.)  The Court also
finds that there is no evidence of collusion or fraud in the settlement.  No party opposed the motion.
Based
on the record presented and the lack of any objection, the Court GRANTS the application,
finds this settlement was made in good faith, and orders that any other joint tortfeasor
or co-obligor is barred from asserting further claims against Parallax Properties
LLC or Xenon Investment Corp., for equitable comparative contribution, or partial
or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 20th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 