 Case Number:  24VECV00580    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  W BVK COURTYARD COMMONS, LLC vs CALABASAS
MEDICAL CENTER, INC.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
OR, ALTERNATIVELY, FOR PARTIAL ADJUDICATION OF THE ISSUE OF POSSESSION
 
Date of Hearing:        May
1, 2024                                                   Trial Date:       None set. 

Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        24VECV00580
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff BVK Courtyard Commons, LLC 
Responding Party:     Defendant Calabasas Medical Center, Inc.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an unlawful detainer action. On April 16, 2020, Plaintiff
conveyed to JANA, LLC a leasehold interest in the Premises for a term of
approximately ten years. On March 10, 2022, JANA assigned the Lease to Tenant.
Plaintiff alleges Tenant breached the Lease by failing to pay Rent and on
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff notified Tenant in writing that it had defaulted
in its payment of Rent. Despite the written notice, Plaintiff alleges Tenant
failed to bring its Rent current and on January 24, 2024, Plaintiff served
Tenant with a statutory Five Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment or,
Alternatively, for Partial Adjudication of the Issue of Possession is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff requests this court take
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s verified Complaint (Exh. A) and Defendant’s
Answer (Exh. B). The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
Defendant also requests this court take
judicial notice of the Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Los Angeles Further Amending and Restating the County of Los Angeles COVID-19
Tenant Protections Resolution from January 24, 2023 (Exh. 6) and the Revised
Guidelines to Aid in the Implementation of the Los Angeles County Eviction
Moratorium During the COVID-19 Pandemic-Date Revised June 10, 2022 (Exh. 7).
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff BVK Courtyard Commons, LLC requests
this court to enter summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds there
are no triable issues of fact with respect to the only issue before the court –
the right to immediate possession of the premises; and Defendant actually
denies it is the successor tenant under the subject lease. 
 
Defendant Calabasas Medical Center,
Inc. filed their own motion for summary judgment, on the grounds that
Plaintiff’s Complaint as a whole has no merits as a matter of law.
Specifically, Defendant does not owe anywhere near the amounts alleged.  Plaintiff points out Defendant is a suspended
Corporation and therefore its papers should not be considered (Reply, Exh. A).
However, Defendant filed a supplemental declaration saying this has been
corrected. (Izad Supp. Decl.)
 
“A motion for summary judgment must be decided on admissible
evidence in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions and matters of which judicial notice may be
taken.”  (Guthrey v. State of
California (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1119-1120.) “It is generally
understood ... that a party cannot rely on the allegations of his own
pleadings, even if verified, to make or supplement the evidentiary showing
required in the summary judgment context. [Citations.]”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 720, fn. 7.) In an unlawful detainer action, notice of a
motion for summary judgment must be given in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1013 and 1170.7. (CRC 3.1351(a).) Code of Civil
Procedure §¿1170.7 provides that a motion for summary judgment may be made at
any time after the answer is filed upon giving five days’ notice.  Summary
judgment shall be granted or denied on the same basis as a motion under Section
437c.  (CCP §¿1170.7.) 
 
Plaintiff presents the
following evidence: Plaintiff is the owner of the Courtyard Commons retail
development in Calabasas, California, including the subject premises (“Premises”).
(UMF 1.) On April 16, 2020, Plaintiff conveyed to JANA,
LLC a leasehold interest in the Premises for a term of approximately ten years.
(UMF 2.) Plaintiff delivered possession of the Premises to JANA and otherwise
performed under the Lease. (UMF 2.) On March 10, 2022, JANA assigned the Lease
to defendant Tenant. (UMF 2.) Tenant assumed all of the obligations of the tenancy
under an “Assignment and First Amendment of Lease.” (UMF 2.) Tenant agreed to
pay rent and other charges, (all included as “Rent”) payable monthly. (UMF 2.) At
all relevant times, Tenant’s rent was approximately $14,900 per month. (UMF 3.)
In November of 2022, Plaintiff and Tenant entered the Second Amendment of
Lease. (UMF 4.)  In that agreement,
Tenant stipulated that it “owes to Landlord an amount equal to . . . $100,576.00.”
(UMF 4.) Tenant promised to pay the November 2022 debt in four installments.
(UMF 4.) Tenant defaulted. (UMF 4.)  By
November 2023, Tenant’s arrears had grown to $249,899.55. (UMF 5.) That month,
Plaintiff served Tenant with a Notice of Default and requested payment. (UMF
6.) Tenant admits it received the notice but did not pay default. (UMF 6.) On
January 24, 2024, Plaintiff served Tenant with a statutory Five-Day Notice to Pay
Rent or Quit (“Pay/Quit Notice”). (UMF 7.) Tenant admits it received the Pay/Quit
Notice. (UMF 7.) Tenant did not pay the amount demanded or any part of it nor
did Tenant quit the Premises. (UMF 8.) Tenant denies under penalty of perjury that
it is the successor tenant under the Lease. (UMF 9.) The fair rental value of
the Premises is at least $496 per day. (UMF 10.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has met its burden to
show entitlement to judgment pursuant to CCP §1161 section 2. A tenant of real
property is guilty of unlawful detainer “(1) the tenant is in possession of the
premises; (2) that possession is without permission; (3) the tenant is in
default for nonpayment of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly served with a
written three-day notice; and (5) the default continues after the three-day
notice period has elapsed.”  (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16; CCP §1161(2).) In the instant matter, Plaintiff has
demonstrated that Defendants are in possession of the premises after defaulting
on payment of the lease. 
 
In opposition, Defendant first argues Plaintiff’s
Notice to Pay or Quit, although estimated, is far from being a reasonable
estimate. (CCP §116.1.) Specifically, the Notice itself is ambiguous as to
which period the rent is being demanded for, how the amount demanded is
calculated and what charges are included in such calculations. Section 1161.1
provides, among other things, a mechanism by which a landlord can demand an
estimated amount of past-due rent, and the tenant can pay that amount and avoid
forfeiture pending the court’s determination of the actual amount due.
Defendant contends it is apparent that the amount demanded includes, amongst
other things, base rent, CAM charges, unauthorized TAX reconciliation charges,
improper late fees, which under the terms of the Article 4 of the Lease should
not even be included as a rent or additional rent. Defendant further contends the
running Ledger includes CAM and TAX reconciliation (page 4 of the Ledger) for
2022 and late fees that were charged even for the months when Defendant’s rent
was paid in full and in time. Moreover, Defendant is still owed $57,697 in TIA,
which was never credited to the Defendant in violation of 2nd Amendment of
Lease. (Izad Decl. ¶9.) 
 
The court finds notice proper. The Notice
complies with 1161.1 as the amount stated is clearly identified as an estimate
and reasonably estimated. First, Plaintiff provides how they came to $128,024.35
as demanded in the Notice. (Separate Statement, ¶5.) Defendant points to how
this includes unauthorized TAX reconciliation charges, CAM charges, and
improper late fees. However, the lease agreement provides late charges, CAM,
and taxes are additional rent. (Exhibit List, Exh. A, ¶¶2.5 and 4.1.) Plaintiff
also points out that the $57,697 credit Defendant claims did not come due during the One-Year Period. Thus, the credit
simply reduces the balance existing at the time the One-Year Period commenced. Further,
the fact that more money may have been owed prior to the One-Year Period does
not negate the estimate set forth in the notice, provided the notice does not
seek payment for that period (which it does not) and that the amount sought is no
more than the actual rent due. 
Defendant has not created a triable issue of fact that the notice is
deficient or overstated.  
As for defendant’s argument that the notice was
defective or that it is entitled to possession because of the Covid-related
eviction moratoria, plaintiff correctly notes that as of September 2021, state
law preempts any local moratoria relating to evictions of commercial
tenants.   The notice period here
(January 2023 through January 2024) is well after the expiration of moratoria
as they relate to commercial properties. 

 
Lastly, Defendant argues the judgment should be
issued for the Defendant because Plaintiff accepted rent from Defendant for a period
after expiration of the notice to pay or quit and, thus, invalidated the notice
and reinstated Defendant’s tenancy.  But
acceptance of partial payments does not preclude a landlord from bringing an
action to recover possession.   
Moreover, based on the Ledger, the three payments
were applied as Defendant requested. Defendant has not provided authority for
how acceptance of partial payment voids the Notice. (See CCP 1161.1(b).) 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment.