  Case Number:  19VECV01803    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  W Osvaldo
Martignoni, et al., v. Arash Majlessi, et al.,
 
Motion for leave to file amended
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        May 1, 2024                           Trial
Date:       N/A
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        19VECV01803
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni
Responding Party:     Defendant
Bank of Hope  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contractual fraud action. On
December 19, 2019 Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni
(“Plaintiffs”) filed this action. Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint on
February 9, 2022 against Defendants Arash Majlessi, Majlessi Corporation,
Gloria Center LLC, Kamran Hekmat, United Escrow Co., John C. Lee, and Ian Bhak
for (1) rescission, (2) fraud, (3) breach of contract, (4) rescission, (5)
breach of duty and gross negligence, (6) breach of duty and gross negligence,
(7) fraud, and (8) declaratory relief.  
 
On November 18, 2022, the court
sustained, without leave to amend, Defendants Kamran Hekmat and Gloria Center
LLC’s (“Hekmat Defendants”) demurrer to the fourth and seventh causes of action
and dismissed the Hekmat Defendants with prejudice.
 
On December 7, 2022, Plaintiffs filed
their operative Fifth Amended Complaint against Arash Majlessi, Majlessi
Corporation, United Escrow Co. Harry Hwang, John C. Lee and Ian Bhak. 
 
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
Arash Majlessi, Majlessi Corporation, Harry Hwang, and Ian Bhak. On March 1,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Gloria Center, LLC. Plaintiff named Bank of Hope as
Doe 1. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni’s Motion for Leave
to file Amended Complaint is CONTINUED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni move the court for
an order allowing Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint to add a cause of
action for negligence against Bank of Hope. 
 
Motions for leave to amend the pleadings
are directed to the sound discretion of the court. “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.) Policy favors
liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters between the
parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may
permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761
[internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is sought to add entirely new claims,
the court may grant leave to amend if the new claims are based on the same
general set of facts, and the amendment will not prejudice the opposing party.
(Austin v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596,
600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding trial
court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint, which
originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction where
the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].) 
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading
must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly
what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new
evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not
made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and
numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons
for delay. (See CRC, rule 3.1324(a), (b).)
 
Plaintiff seeks to add a new cause of
action for negligence against Defendant Bank of Hope as the claim is based on
the same general facts that they have alleged against other defendants.
Plaintiff contends that “United Escrow Co., and Harry Hwang now contend that
Bank of Hope was negligent in the manner in which it investigated the
profitability of the Restaurant before loaning money to the Plaintiffs and so
do the Plaintiffs contend.” (Mot. at p. 4:10-13.)
 
In opposition, Bank of Hope argues the
motion is procedurally and substantively defective. The court agrees. As noted
above, Plaintiff must comply with California Rules of Court, 3.1324. Not only
has no declaration been submitted to this court, but there is also no copy of
the proposed amendment. As noted by Bank of Hope, this failure to comply with
Rule 3.1324 prejudices them as they cannot determine whether Plaintiff is
alleging a special relationship beyond the scope of the borrower-lender
relationship. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint is CONTINUED for  plaintiff to comply with the rules of
court.    