 Case Number:  24VECV01222    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  W LUXURY LEASE PARTNERS, AS SERVICER FOR LUXURY LEASE
COMPANY v. TAX LEADERS OF AMERICA, LLC, et al.
 
plaintiff’s
application for writ of possession
 
Date
of Hearing:        May 1, 2024                                       Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV01222
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Luxury Lease Partners, as Servicer
for Luxury Lease Company, a Delaware Statutory Trust
Responding Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 19, 2023, Plaintiff Luxury Lease Partners, as Servicer for Luxury Lease Company,
a Delaware Statutory Trust filed a complaint against Tax Leaders of America,
LLC and Mario Sanchez for 1. Recovery and Possession of Personal Property
(Claim and Delivery); 2. Breach of Contract; 3. Fraud; 4. Conversion; and 5. Declaratory
Relief. Plaintiff entered into a lease agreement with Defendant Sanchez whereby
Sanchez leased a used 2012 Ferrari 458 Coupe on behalf of Tax Leaders of
America, LLC. Plaintiff alleges since the date of lease of the Ferrari, Luxury
Lease has received the monthly payments due up through January 2024; however,
Sanchez and Tax Leaders’ February 2024 and March 2024 payments bounced and
Luxury Lease has not received the agreed upon monthly payments since. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of
Possession is CONTINUED
 
DISCUSSION
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession,
the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2)
a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any
affidavit in support thereof. (CCP §512.030.) 

 
There
is no proof of service in the court’s record. Plaintiff must provide proof of
service. In the event Plaintiff can show Defendant was properly served the copy
of the summons and complaint; notice of the application; and copy of the
application, the court rules as the following. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include: 1)
Plaintiff’s basis for the claim and entitlement to possession; 2) Defendant’s
wrongful detention; 3) description of the property; 4) location of the property
and  probable cause to believe that such
property is located there; and 5) the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment or fine or seized under an execution against the property.  
 
Plaintiff
provides the declaration of Jim Moscatello, an authorized signatory of
Plaintiff, to establish the facts relevant to the writ application. The
declaration states that the agreement is attached, but it is not.  The court has already continued this hearing
one time to allow plaintiff to submit the agreement.   Without the agreement or other sufficient
evidence, plaintiff’s application lacks evidentiary support.  The application also lacks evidence of the
vehicle’s approximate value.
 
The application for writ of possession is CONTINUED.
