  Case Number:  21STCV44465    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  31  Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
16, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Vacated
 
CASE:                         U.S. Bank National Association, As Trustee for Velocity Commercial Capital Loan Trust 2019-3 v. Sannette Gite,
As Trustee of the Vaughn Family Trust, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV44465
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES



 
MOVING
PARTY:              Plaintiff Mara Enterprises
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Defendant Sannette Gite        
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION


            This is a
quiet title action concerning the real property at 8940 Kramerwood Place, Los
Angeles, California 90034 (the Property).  Plaintiff Mara Enterprises (Mara) alleges that
Defendant Sannette Gite, as Trustee of the Vaughn Family Trust (Gite) gifted a
grant deed to Lions Proof, LLC which was recorded in 2011 and broke the chain
of title on the Property.  Gite contends
the deed is a forgery. 
 
On June 28, 2024, Mara filed this motion to compel Gite to
provide a further response to Mara’s Form Interrogatory 2.1.  Mara seeks to learn every name Gite has used
in the past and the dates the name was used. 
Mara also seeks sanctions against Gite.
 
On October 3, 2024, Gite filed an opposition.
 
On October 9, 2024, Mara filed a reply. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, parties may
move for a further response to interrogatories where an answer to the request
is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too
general.¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).)¿
The motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or
opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection demands,
the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (c).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Mara seeks
a further response to Form Interrogatory 2.1 from Gite.  This discovery request seeks the following
information:  “State (a) your name; (b)
every name you have used in the past; and (c) the dates you used each name.”
 
            In
response, Gite stated: “(a) Sannette Gite; (b) Sannette Gite; (c) Since 2001
when joined safe at home Government Protection Program.”
 
            Mara argues
Gite’s response is evasive.  Specifically,
Gite states in 2.1(c) that she has used her current name since 2001 but fails
to provide her previous names as requested in 2.1(b).  
 
            The court
finds a further response is warranted.  The
response is evasive and not straightforward. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(1).)  Moreover, Gite alleges the grant deed
conveying title to the property to Lions Proof, LLC in 2011, which bears her
signature, is a forgery.  The information
is relevant to determining the merit of that claim.
 
            In
opposition, Gite asserts that California’s Safe at Home Government Protection
Program protects disclosure of her past names, and more generally, her right to
privacy.  Gite is incorrect on both
points.  The Safe at Home program is
codified at Government Code sections 6205-6210. 
As stated at Section 6205, “The Legislature finds that persons
attempting to escape from actual or threatened domestic violence, sexual
assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or elder or dependent
adult abuse frequently establish new names or addresses to prevent their
assailants or probable assailants from finding them. The purpose of this
chapter is to enable state and local agencies to respond to requests for public
records without disclosing the changed name or location of a victim of domestic
violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or
elder or dependent adult abuse to enable interagency cooperation with the
Secretary of State in providing name and address confidentiality for victims of
domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child
abduction, or elder or dependent adult abuse and to enable state and local
agencies to accept a program participant’s use of an address designated by the
Secretary of State as a substitute mailing address.”  (Gov. Code, § 6205, subd. (a), emphasis
added.)  In short, the Safe at
Home program does not create a basis for a litigant to resist discovery based on
privacy concerns.  Gite fails to cite any
authority pointing to a different conclusion. 
            
            Even if Section
6205 prevented disclosure of Gite’s past names, if any, it is Gite’s burden to
establish her asserted right to privacy. 
The right of privacy of individuals is protected by the California
Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.)  Generally, that right extends
to an individual’s financial records.  (See, e.g., Fortunato, at p.
480 [“[C]onfidential financial information given to a bank by its customers is
protected by the right to privacy[.]”].)  In ruling on discovery motions,
the court must balance the privacy claims of the responding party with the
requesting party’s need for the information. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993)
5 Cal.4th 704, 718-722.)   
 
In Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Ass’n (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, the California Supreme Court fashioned a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy.¿ The party asserting the right of privacy must establish
(1) a “legally protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened
intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552 (Williams).)¿  
 
            Here, Gite
does not meet her burden.  Her opposition
does not discuss any of these elements.  Moreover,
Gite is asserting forgery as a defense. 
Accordingly, any names Gite has previously used are relevant to the name
or names she may have used in this case.[1]  To the extent Gite feels disclosure may
threaten her safety, she may seek a protective order. 
                        
 Monetary Sanctions 
 
Mara requests sanctions against Gite in the sum of $4,000. 
Gite asserted the Safe at Home program as the basis for not providing a further
response but failed to cite any authority to support her position.  The court finds Gite did not have substantial
justification to oppose this motion.  Sanctions
are therefore warranted.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion is GRANTED. 
Defendant Sannette Gite is ordered to provide a further response to Plaintiff
Mara Enterprises’ Form Interrogatory 12.1.
 
            The request
for sanctions is GRANTED.  Defendant is
ordered to pay sanctions in the sum of $4,000 to Plaintiff, by and through its
counsel.
 
            Responses
are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   October 16,
2024                               




 


 


  


 




 


 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 


