 Case Number:  22STCV25084    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 16, 2024                                         TRIAL DATE:  August
11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Fred Goldstein v.
Joshua Driskell, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV25084
 





















 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Fred Goldstein
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Joshua
Driskell
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
This is a legal malpractice action.  Plaintiff, Fred
Goldstein, a self-represented litigant, alleges that he retained Defendants
Joshua Driskell (Driskell or Defendant), Primuth Driskell & Terzian LLP,
and Lagerlof LLP, in November 2018 to represent Plaintiff in the underlying
probate action filed as 18STPB11264 in the County of Los
Angeles.   
 
On July 24, 2024, the parties participated in a Status
Conference Re: Discovery.  As relevant
here, the court directed Plaintiff to file a Motion for Leave to file a motion
to compel further responses from Defendants. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff had until August 24, 2024 to file a noticed
motion for leave.
 
Instead, on August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Ex Parte
Motion for Leave to File a Motion to Compel Further Responses.  The court heard oral argument on Plaintiff’s
ex parte on August 23, 2024.  After
consideration of the papers and argument, the court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte
application because the application did not provide Defendants with sufficient
time to file an opposition.  Plaintiff
was given 10 days to file a motion for reconsideration of the court’s ruling
denying his ex parte application.  
 
On September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for
Reconsideration.    
 
Defendants filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).)¿ “A party seeking reconsideration
also must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the
evidence at an earlier time. [Citation.]”¿ (New York Times Co. v. Superior
Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)¿¿A motion for reconsideration is
properly denied where it is based on evidence that could have been presented in
connection with the original motion.¿ (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460.)
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            For several
reasons, Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration lacks merit.  First, Plaintiff missed the date to file a
motion to compel.  Once the forty-five days
pass, a court lacks jurisdiction to grant a motion to compel.  (See Sexton v. Super. Ct. (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410 [holding a court is without authority to rule on an
untimely motion to compel further other than to deny it]; see also Weinstein
v. Blumberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 316, 322, fn. 3 [“Discovery deadlines are
mandatory and we have treated them as jurisdictional.”].)  Plaintiff’s deadline to file a Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One was July 9, 2024.
Plaintiff’s deadline to file a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One was July 16, 2024.  Plaintiff missed both deadlines. 
 
 
            Having missed the deadline, Plaintiff asked
the court for leave to file a late motion to compel.  The court offered the Plaintiff an
opportunity to brief the issue and ordered Plaintiff to file any motion for
leave to file a late motion to compel (not an ex parte application to file a
late motion to compel) within thirty days. 
Instead of filing a noticed motion, Plaintiff filed something called an “ex
parte motion” for leave to file a late motion to compel.  (See Cal.R.Court 3.1200 re: Ex Parte
Applications)  Not only is such an “ex
parte motion” a procedural platypus but also Plaintiff asked the court to rule
on the motion to file a late motion to compel on an ex parte basis giving Defendants
less than the required seven court days between receiving the motion (assuming
personal service) and the filing their opposition. (CCP section 1005.)  Moreover, Plaintiff did not demonstrate he
was without fault in creating the crisis that required ex parte relief, or that
the crisis occurred as a result of excusable neglect.  Indeed, Plaintiff waited until the last minute and failed to follow the court’s order to file a
motion.  
 
            Finally, there
are no new or different facts, circumstances of law that support granting the
current motion. Plaintiff brings this motion for reconsideration for the
following reasons:¿(1) Plaintiff believed he provided proper notice of the motion
for leave via ex parte application; (2) the grounds for the denial was not
based upon any grounds alleged by Defendants; (3) Defendants were not
prejudiced by any truncated time to oppose; and (4) Plaintiff believed good
cause existed to hear the matter on an ex parte basis. 
 
Plaintiff’s arguments are procedurally defective.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
subdivision (a), provides that a party may make a motion to reconsider a prior order
“based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law.”  None of Plaintiff’s identified grounds for
this motion are new facts, circumstances, or law.  They are an assortment of excuses and mistaken
beliefs.[1]

 
Plaintiff alternatively
asks this court to issue an order regarding upcoming discovery, including,
permitting Plaintiff to propound further discovery to which Defendants may not
object or to permit Plaintiff to simply re-file the same Motion for Leave.  
 
The first
alternative request is vague and improper. 
There is no authority cited by Plaintiff that would permit this court to
deprive a party the ability to assert objections to discovery that has not been
propounded.  
 
The second
alternative request fares no better.  Plaintiff
did not timely file the motions to compel further, and indeed, did not properly
seek leave to file such motions.  In
essence, Plaintiff seeks another bite (likely the third bite) at the apple to
file a motion to compel.  At this
juncture, Plaintiff cannot remedy his failure to timely file his motion to
compel.    
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   October 16,
2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 


