 Case Number:  24STCV21160    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 16, 2024                                         TRIAL DATE:  Not set

                                                           
CASE:                         healthPiper LLC v. Suma Gowda, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV21160
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Suma Gowda and Gowda Innovations
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff healthPiper
LLC 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff healthPiper LLC (healthPiper)
filed this action against Defendants Suma Gowda (Gowda) and Gowda Innovations
for (1) fraudulent concealment, (2) conversion, (3) breach of employment
agreement, (4) intentional interference with contractual relations against
Gowda Innovations, (5) intentional interference with contractual relations
against Gowda, and (6) breach of fiduciary duty.  The only cause of action alleged against
Gowda Innovations is the fourth cause of action.
 
As alleged in the Complaint, “Dr. Joshua Freedman is the CEO
of healthPiper.  healthPiper is an
on-line company that offers accessible and effective psychiatry treatment.  Gowda worked for Dr. Freedman and healthPiper
as a software engineer and chief technology officers from 2014 until 2022.  Gowda strung healthPiper along for years in
an elaborate scheme that had healthPiper paying Gowda a salary for full-time
employment, as well as, to pay for Gowda’s attorney to help her navigate the US
immigration system to obtain permanent resident status in the US.  The entire time her application was being
processed by the attorneys that healthPiper paid for, Gowda thanked healthPiper
for supporting her H-1B and permanent residency visa applications and that she
desired to work for healthPiper for a decade.”  (Complaint, ¶ 1.)   Upon
becoming a US permanent resident, Gowda left healthPiper’s employ, converted
healthPiper’s intellectual property, and besmirched Dr. Freedman’s reputation.  After Gowda’s departure, healthPiper learned
she was operating and managing the day-to-day operations of her own company,
Gowda Innovations.
 
On September 9, 2024, this case was related to Suma Gowda
v. healthPiper, LLC, et al., Los Angeles County Superior Court, Case No.
22STCV34766.  In the related action,
Gowda brings numerous causes of action arising from her employment with
healthPiper.  healthPiper and Dr.
Freedman answered the complaint in the related action on December 22, 2022.
 
On September 20, 2024, Defendants filed this demurrer to the
Complaint.
 
On October 1, 2024, healthPiper filed an opposition.
 
On October 9, 2024, Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿ ¿
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.    Judicial Notice
 
Gowda and Gowda Innovations requests judicial notice of
Gowda’s complaint and healthPiper’s answer filed in the related case, Case No.
22STCV34766. 
 
The unopposed request is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
      
B.    
Analysis
 
Gowda and Gowda Innovations (hereafter, Defendants) demur to
healthPiper’s Complaint on the following grounds: (1) the Complaint is an
untimely compulsory Cross-Complaint; (2) the first and third claims are barred
by judicial estoppel and the affirmative defenses of at-will employment pled in
the related case; (3) the fourth and fifth claims for tortious interference are
barred by statutes of limitations; (4) the Complaint is preempted by the CUTSA,
and (5) all claims arose from an employment relationship and are subject to
California Labor Code section 2802.  The
court addresses these arguments in turn.
 
1.     
Whether the Complaint is An Improperly
Filed Cross-Complaint 
 
Gowda and Gowda Innovations demur to the Complaint on the
grounds it is compulsory cross-complaint which should have been asserted in the
related action.  When a cross-complaint
arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the plaintiff’s cause of action, the cross-complaint is
compulsory, and if a defendant fails to timely file the cross-complaint, he may
not bring them in a later action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿426.30, subd.
(a).)  A court must grant an application for leave to file such a related
cross-complaint if the defendant acted in good faith, especially if denial
would lead to forfeiture of claims.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿426.50.)  
 
With respect to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth
causes of action, the court agrees.  healthPiper’s claims against Gowda for fraudulent
concealment, conversion, breach of employment agreement, intentional interference
with contractual relations, and breach of fiduciary duty all arise from Gowda’s
employment with healthPiper.  Specifically,
these claims, and the claims asserted by Gowda in the related action, all
concern the obligations the parties owed to each other as employee and
employer.  In essence, the claims are
logically related and should have been asserted in a cross-complaint by healthPiper
in the related action.  (See, e.g., Align
v. Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 960 [reasoning the
plaintiff employer should have brought its claims in a prior suit with its
defendant employee because they involved employment obligations which arose
during Tran’s employment and were thus logically related].)
 
healthPiper does not dispute the relatedness of its claims
to Gowda’s related action.  Instead,
healthPiper argues Section 426.30 “precludes claims in a subsequent action if
any only if the claims could have been raised by the party ‘at the time of
serving his answer to the complaint’ in the prior action.”  (Opposition, p. 5:21-22.)  Further, because the facts supporting the
causes of action were later discovered, healthPiper contends it was not
required to assert the claims as compulsory cross-claims.  In support, healthPiper cites Ferraro v.
Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509.  
healthPiper misreads Ferraro. 
In Ferraro, the Court of Appeal rejected a compulsory crossclaim
argument by emphasizing Section 426.30 prohibits a party against whom a
complaint been filed and served and fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related
cause of action to thereafter assert against the plaintiff the related
cause of action not pleaded.  (Ferraro,
at p. 559.)  Ferraro does not
stand for the proposition that a crossclaim is compulsory if and only if the
defendant is aware of the claim at the time it files its answer to a
complaint.  Rather, the proper course of
action upon discovery of their claims against Gowda was to seek leave to file a
cross-complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50.  healthPiper did not do so in the related
action.  It may not circumvent the
mandates of Section 426.30 by simply filing a separate action.
 
Accordingly, healthPiper’s causes of action against Gowda
(first, second, third, fifth, and sixth) are subject to demurrer on these
grounds.[1]
 The court proceeds to consider
Defendants’ challenge to the fourth cause of action which is asserted against
Gowda Innovations alone.
 
2.     
Whether the Fourth Cause of Action
is Time-Barred
 
In the fourth cause of action for tortious interference with
contractual relations, healthPiper alleges Gowda Innovations knew of the employment
contract between healthPiper and Gowda and intentionally prevented performance
or made performance difficult for Gowda. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 48-52.)    
 
“It has long been held that a stranger to a contract may be
liable in tort for intentionally interfering with the performance of the
contract. The elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of
action for intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid
contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”  (Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118,
1126.) 
Interference or disruption of the contract includes conduct
that “prevented performance or made performance more expensive or
difficult.”  (See CACI No. 2201; see also Pacific Gas & Electric
Co., 50 Cal.3d at p. 1129.)  The statute of limitations for
tortious interference with contract is two years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 339,
subd. (1).)
 
            Defendants
argue the fourth cause of action is time barred.  The point is well taken.  As alleged, Gowda’s employment ended in
January 2022.  Therefore, Defendants had
until January 2024 to bring this cause of action but did not do so until August
2024.  
 
healthPiper argues the delayed discovery rule applies.  “In order to rely on the discovery rule for
delayed accrual of a cause of action, [a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on
its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery
rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery
and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable
diligence.  In assessing the sufficiency
of the allegations of delayed discovery, the court places the burden on the plaintiff
to show diligence; conclusory allegations will not withstand demurrer.”  (Nguyen v. W. Digital Corp. (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 1522, 1553 (cleaned up).)
 
Here, healthPiper does not allege any facts to obtain the
benefit of the discovery rule.  healthPiper
does not allege the time and manner of discovery, or explain why it could not
have made the discovery earlier despite reasonable diligence. The fourth cause
of action is subject to demurrer.[2]
[3]

     
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is
GRANTED as to the fourth cause of action only.
 
            Plaintiff
is to serve and file the First Amended Complaint within 20 days of this order.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 16,
2024                               





   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 


