  Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  73 5/14/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE
STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt
Schnaider Dawkins)
 
MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL DEFENDANT
ROCHELLE H. STERLING TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS, RECORDS AND OTHER MATERIAL AT
DEPOSITION (filed 05/01/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel Defendant
Rochelle H. Sterling to Produce Documents, Records and Other Material at
Deposition is DENIED without prejudice. 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.
Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family
Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in
the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that
BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her
Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability
stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19
restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,
that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.   
 
In
the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles
Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her
apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a
notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an
Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and
faucet fixtures. 
  
On
October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is
the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family
Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as
follows: 
C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
C/A 2: Negligence  
C/A 3: Nuisance  
C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 
C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act  
C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights
Act 
C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
On March 17, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.
 
On March 28,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Defendant Rochelle H. Sterling to
Produce Documents, Records and Other Material at Deposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff is entitled to notice defendant Rochelle H. Sterling to
sit for deposition and produce documents, records, and other tangible things as
described in the notice of deposition.
·      
Defendant Rochelle H. Sterling’s objections to produce documents
must be denied.
Defendants filed an opposition,
arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s motion is unripe. Sterling’s deposition has not
occurred yet and the Court has not set a new date for her deposition yet. 
·      
Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith. She sent
Defendants’ counsel her meet and confer letter on March 27, 2024 and then filed
the instant motion the next day on March 28, 2024. Defendants’ did not have
sufficient time to review and respond to Plaintiff’s letter. 
·      
The discovery cutoff has been closed since January 2023 and
Defendants have produced all responsive documents to timely requests. 
Plaintiff filed a reply, arguing: 
·      
Plaintiff maintains that she is entitled to the production of
documents at deposition.
·      
Plaintiff further requests the court impose sanctions on
Defendants’ counsel for contacting Plaintiff at her personal email address. 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard
 
“The service
of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any
deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection
and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)  
 
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . without having
served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed
with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) A motion made
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 must “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) A court may
limit the frequency or extent of discovery of electronically stored information
if “[t]he likely burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs the
likely benefit, taking into account the amount in controversy, the resources of
the parties, the importance of the issues in the litigation, and the importance
of the requested discovery in resolving the issues.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (f)(4).)  
 
If a motion
under Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a) is granted “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer 
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and
must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff fails to submit a declaration attesting to her efforts to meet and
confer. Therefore,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has not satisfied the preliminary meet and
confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and
2031.310. Further,
the parties do not appear to dispute that Plaintiff sent Defendants’ counsel a
meet and confer letter on March 27,
2024. (Oppos., p. 2; Reply, p. 6, Ex. 4.) However, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion on March 28, 2024, without allowing Defendants’ counsel sufficient time
to review and respond to her letter. While the Court finds Plaintiff has not
met the meet and confer requirement, the Court will
not deny Plaintiff’s motion on this basis. (See Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.) 
 
C.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff is
seeking the Court to order Sterling to produce documents as described in the Plaintiff’s notice of
deposition.
On February 23, 2024, the Court found good cause to reconsider its March 24, 2022 ruling
and permitted Plaintiff to take Sterling’s deposition. On March 15, 2024, the
Court set the deposition of Sterling for March 27, 2024. The parties appeared
before the Court again on March 22, 2024 wherein the Court vacated and
postponed the deposition of Sterling at Plaintiff’s request in light of her
medical issue. 
 
Plaintiff had served an amended notice of deposition of Rochelle
Sterling with requests to produce documents on March 20, 2024. Defendant served
an objection to the amended notice on March 21, 2024.
 
To compel
deposition or production of documents at deposition, the Court would be
required to analyze each objection made to ensure that no valid objections were
made. This type of analysis requires a separate statement. The California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345, subdivision (a), states  
 
“Except
as provided in (b), any motion involving the content of a discovery request or
the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.
The motions that require a separate statement include a motion: 
… 
(4)
To compel answers at a deposition; 
(5)
To compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a
deposition.”  
 
Here,
Plaintiff failed to file a separate statement or address each of the objections
presented by Defendants. Plaintiff simply argues that Defendants’ objections
are unlawful and meritless.  
 
In Mills
v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893, the Court of Appeal analyzed
a procedural deficiency in a separate statement where “Plaintiffs filed a
separate statement in support of their motion to compel, but it did not comply
with the requirements of former rule 335 (now rule 3.1020). Plaintiffs'
separate statement did not set forth U.S. Bank's full response to each of the
interrogatories and requests for production at issue. Instead, the separate
statement repeatedly grouped together several discovery requests, and then
stated ‘in relevant part’ U.S. Bank's response to the group as a whole, and it
significantly truncated some of the lengthier responses.” When determining if
the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion to compel further
for this procedural deficiency, the Court of Appeal stated, “We conclude that
because Plaintiffs did not comply with the requirements of former rule 335, the
trial court was well within its discretion to deny the motion to compel
discovery on that basis. (Cf. Neary v. Regents of University of California
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1145, 230 Cal.Rptr. 281 [describing trial court's
denial of motions to compel discovery because of a nonconforming separate
statement].)” (Id. at 893.)              
 
Here, the
procedural deficiency is more significant than that in Mills. This
Motion includes a request to compel documents at deposition and thus requires a
separate statement pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
subdivision (a)(5). Plaintiff has failed to present a separate statement
making it extremely difficult for the Court to analyze Plaintiff’s requests and
Defendants’ objections.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel
Defendant Rochelle H. Sterling to Produce Documents, Records and Other Material
at Deposition is DENIED without prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel Defendant
Rochelle H. Sterling to Produce Documents, Records and Other Material at
Deposition is DENIED without
prejudice.