 Case Number:  22STCV00206    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  73 5/14/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JOHN RISK v. FRANKLIN R. FRALEY, JR., et al. (22STCV00206) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Robert Rosen (Rosen & Associates, PC) 
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Thomas Myers (Smith & Myers LLP) 
 
RENEWED MOTION TO TRANSFER AND CONSOLIDATE ACTIONS
PENDING IN DIFFERENT COURTS (filed 3/26/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendants’ Renewed Motion
to Transfer and Consolidate Actions in Different Courts is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 4,
2022, Plaintiff John Risk, individually and as Trustee of the Anne Risk Trust, filed
the instant action against Defendants Franklin R. Fraley, Jr. (“Fraley”);
Fraley & Associates (“F & A”); and the American Arbitration
Association. 
 
From
approximately 2013 to 2019, Fraley and F & A represented Anne Risk and her trusts in an
action in the Orange County Superior Court entitled Risk v. Cox, Case
No. 30-2014-00747205-CU-CO-CJC (the “Cox Action”). (Compl., ¶ 4.) After Anne
Risk’s death in April 2021, Plaintiff John Risk assumed Anne Risk’s role as
sole trustee of the surviving trust. (Compl., ¶¶ 17, 31.) In November 2021,
Fraley filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association
and a complaint with the Orange County Superior Court alleging that he is owed
money for his representation of Anne Risk and her trusts in the Cox Action. In
January 2022, Plaintiff filed the complaint in this action alleging 20 separate causes of action on various theories, including breach of
contract and negligent misrepresentation.
 
On October
24, 2023, Defendants filed a Motion to Transfer and Consolidate Actions Pending
in Different Courts. Plaintiff filed a Joinder in the Relief Requested in
Defendants’ Motion. 
 
On February
1, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ Motion without prejudice for the parties
to file a proper, supported, and documented motion.
 
On
March 26, 2024, Defendants’ filed a renewed Motion to
Transfer and Consolidate Actions Pending in Different Courts, arguing:
·       The parties
renew their joint request that this Court transfer an action between them
arising from the same set of facts and circumstances, now pending in the Orange
County Superior Court to this Court, and consolidate both actions for all
purposes.
·       On November 1,
2021 Fraley filed an action in the Orange County Superior Court, captioned Fraley
v. Risk, Case No 30-2021 01228880, naming Risk as a defendant (the
"OCSC Action"). In the OCSC Action, Fraley seeks to recover unpaid
legal fees for work done for the Risks. On January 4, 2022, Risk filed this action in the Los Angeles
County Superior Court captioned Risk v. Fraley, Case No. 22 STCV 00206,
naming Fraley as defendant, and seeking to recover damages for the legal
services that Fraley provided to Risk (the "LASC Action"). 
o   No
substantive proceedings have occurred yet in either action. The OCSC Action has
not been set for trial. No discovery has occurred in any of these actions.
·       These actions
involve common questions of fact and law, meet the criteria for coordination,
and not "complex." A transfer of the OCSC Action to this Court will
promote the ends of justice.
 
On
March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Joinder in the Relief Requested in
Defendants’ Motion to Transfer and Consolidate Actions Pending in Different
Courts. Plaintiff joins the entirety of Defendants’ motion. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard
 
For
non-complex cases, a judge in one court may order cases pending in other courts
transferred to the judge’s court if the cases: (1) involve a common question of
fact or law with a case pending in the judge’s court; (2) meet the criteria for
coordination under Code of Civil Procedure section 404.1; and (3) the cases are
not complex. (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.)  In
deciding whether an action is a complex case under (a), the court must
consider, among other things, whether the action is likely to involve: (1)
Numerous pretrial motions raising difficult or novel legal issues that will be
time-consuming to resolve; (2)
Management of a large number of witnesses or a substantial amount of
documentary evidence; (3)
Management of a large number of separately represented parties; (4)
Coordination with related actions pending in one or more courts in other
counties, states, or countries, or in a federal court; or (5)
Substantial post judgment judicial supervision. (California Rules of Court, Rule 3.400(b).)
 
To
assess whether coordination is appropriate, courts consider the following
factors: (1) whether the common question of fact or law is predominating and
significant to the litigation; (2) the convenience to the parties, witnesses,
and counsel; (3) the relative development of actions and work product of
counsel; (4) the efficient utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; (5)
the calendar of the courts; (6) the disadvantages of duplicative and
inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and (7) the likelihood of
settlement of the actions should coordination be denied. (Code Civ. Proc., §
404.1.)  
 
Upon
transfer, the cases may be consolidated for trial without further notice or
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.)  
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Defendants move to have transfer and consolidate
two actions, this matter, and the case Fraley v. Risk, Case No
30-2021 01228880, in Orange County Superior Court. 
 
Both parties agree that transfer and
consolidation is appropriate. First, the matters are not complex. Under
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.400(a), a complex matter is “an action that
requires exceptional judicial management to avoid placing unnecessary burdens
on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case, keep costs reasonable,
and promote effective decision making by the court, the parties, and counsel.” Moreover, the parties contend that
none of the factors in subsection (b) have been met. Second, the parties argue that under CCP 404.1, which
provides the standards to promote the ends of justice, the matters should be
consolidated. 
 
The Court finds that consolidation and transfer
is appropriate. Here, both cases arise from Fraley's
representation of the Risks and their trusts in the same underlying dispute,
the Cox Action, resulting in common questions of law
and fact. Both actions involve the same parties, the same witnesses
and the same legal issues.   
 
Further,
there is no danger of prejudice from consolidation.  Indeed, the parties
agree that transfer and consolidation is warranted.  In contrast,
prejudice will result if the cases are not consolidated.   The
parties will be forced to incur the unnecessary costs of participating in
duplicative discovery, including expert discovery, as well as two separate
trials.  Moreover, if the cases are not consolidated, there is the risk of
inconsistent findings from different juries.   
 
In addition, venue
in Los Angeles County would be more convenient for the parties. Mr. Fraley,
counsel for both parties, and the main witnesses are in Los Angeles County. Mr.
Risk is in neither Los Angeles nor Orange County. As the parties note, it would
be more convenient for Mr. Fraley, who remains ill, to not have to travel to
Orange County for a second trial in a second lawsuit.
 
Finally,
judicial economy will be served by avoiding duplicative discovery and trials on
the same issue.  The courts will not have to incur the time and costs of
overseeing two separate proceedings, including multiple trials.   
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Renewed Motion to Transfer and Consolidate
Actions in Different Courts.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Defendants’ Renewed Motion
to Transfer and Consolidate Actions in Different Courts is GRANTED.