 Case Number:  23STLC01469    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Western Surety Company,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STLC01469




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Richard Noyer, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March
12, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash
Subpoena for Business Records
Moving Party: Third-Party
Sunlight Financial, LLC
Responding
Party: Cross-Complainant Christopher Ball
 
T/R:      SUNLIGHT’S MOTION TO QUASH IS GRANTED.
 
SUNLIGHT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a
court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (CCP §
1987.1(a).) 
Third-Party Sunlight Financial, LLC moves to quash a subpoena for
business records on the grounds that it was not properly served, does not
include the proper consumer notifications, and is unduly burdensome. 
 
Cross-Defendant Ball served Sunlight with the subpoena by delivering a
copy of the subpoena to Sunlight’s registered agent for process filed with the
California Secretary of State. Sunlight asserts this was improper because it is
not a resident of California. Sunlight is a resident of Delaware and North
Carolina. CCP § 2020.220(c) provides,
 
(c) Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require
all of the           following of
any deponent who is a resident of California at the time of service:
 
(1) Personal attendance and testimony, if the subpoena so specifies.
 
(2) Any specified production, inspection, testing, and sampling.
 
(3) The deponent's attendance at a court session to consider any issue
arising               out of the
deponent's refusal to be sworn, or to answer any question, or to                                           produce
specified items, or to permit inspection or photocopying, if the subpoena              so specifies,
or specified testing and sampling of the items produced.
 
(Emphasis
added.) 
 
This section implies that deposition subpoenas may be enforced only against
residents of California. Sunlight asserts that it may be served with a subpoena
in its place of residence under the Uniform
Interstate Depositions and Discovery Act (“UIDDA”). The UIDDA provides the
proper procedure for obtaining discovery from a resident of a state other than
the state where the action is pending. In opposition, Ball asserts Corporations
Code § 2110 allows for service
of process on foreign corporations via their registered agent. But the
Corporations Code does not define process, and the case law citing section 2110
relates to service of summons, not a subpoena.
 
Under CCP § 2020.220(c), California has subpoena power
only over residents of California. That the subpoena was served on a registered
agent of Sunlight does not change the fact that it is not a resident of
California nor a party to this suit.
 
Sunlight’s motion to quash is GRANTED.


 