  Case Number:  22STCV11471    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Valery Vaca, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV11471




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March 12, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Change Venue
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Valery Vaca and Stefanny Noriega
Responding Party: Defendant Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE IS
DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFFS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition was filed. 
 
CCP § 397 provides,
 
The court may, on motion, change the
place of trial in the following cases:
 
(a) When the court designated in the
complaint is not the proper court.
 
(b) When there is reason to believe
that an impartial trial cannot be had therein.
 
(c) When the convenience of witnesses
and the ends of justice would be                                       promoted by the change.
 
(d) When from any cause there is no
judge of the court qualified to act.
 
 
Plaintiffs move to change venue to Orange County
on the ground that this Court cannot hold an impartial trial. Plaintiffs
originally named the County of Los Angeles as Defendant; Plaintiffs
subsequently amended the complaint to name the Los Angeles Superior Court as a
Defendant. 
CCP § 397 “requires a showing of actual
prejudice to the moving party, and whether the showing has been made is left to
the discretion of the trial court.” (Ohio Casualty
Ins. Group v. Superior Court (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 444,
452.)   
Plaintiffs’ motion contains only a conclusory
statement that because Los Angeles Superior Court is a Defendant “it
will not be possible for Plaintiffs to receive a fair and impartial trial in
this court.” Plaintiffs provide no evidence or argument supporting their conclusion
and make no showing of actual prejudice. This is an employment dispute. Los
Angeles Superior Court is a large court, with more than 500 judicial officers
and thousands of employees. The judge assigned to this case, Judge Leiter, has
no knowledge of, connection to, or involvement in the facts or circumstances of
the case. Judge Leiter is not involved in setting the Court’s policies on
employment matters or in decisions involving individual employees. Plaintiffs
have not shown that Judge Leiter cannot be fair and impartial. And at trial,
the jury will decide the facts. Plaintiffs have not shown they cannot receive a
fair and impartial trial in this Court.
To the extent Plaintiffs’ motion may be deemed
a motion to disqualify all judicial officers in the Los Angeles Superior Court,
this Court has no authority to decide such a motion. (CJA Formal Ethics Opinion 60.) 
Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED.
 
 
 
 