 Case Number:  24STCV15083    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



IGNACIO R. MONTES, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL RAY PEDDICORD, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV15083




Hearing Date:


December 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ VERIFIED COMPLAINT



            
Background
On June 17, 2024,
Plaintiffs Ignacio R. Montes, Maria Montes, Michelle Montes, and dba C&E
Upholstery (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Michael
Ray Peddicord, Gregory Dean Peddicord, and David Allen Eastis (collectively,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges twenty-eight causes of action.  
Defendants now demur to
each of the causes of action of the Complaint. The demurrer is unopposed. 
Defendants previously filed
a motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16 to strike each of the causes of action of the Complaint. On November
12, 2024, the Court issued an Order granting Defendants’ motion to strike as to
the first through twenty-fourth causes of action of the Complaint. Defendants’
motion to strike was denied as to the twenty-fifth through twenty-eighth causes
of action of the Complaint. (See November 12, 2024 Order.) The Court’s
November 12, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[i]n
light of the ruling on Defendant’s [sic] Anti-Slapp Motion, Defendants withdraw
their Demurrer to the Complaint as to the first though twenty-fourth causes of
action.” 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’
request for judicial notice.  
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)  
B.     Allegations of the Complaint  
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that
they “have been living in the residential property located at 12167 Firestone
Blvd. and operating a business from the commercial space at 12169 Firestone
Blvd., Norwalk, CA, for the last twenty-plus years under a tenancy with the
now-deceased property owner.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) “C & E Custom Upholstery was
established in 1975 by a prior owner and was transferred to Plaintiff Ignacio
on or around 1990. The business has been continuously located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, and remained in that location until 2023.”
(Compl., ¶ 21.) 
“Plaintiffs rented the property by verbal
agreement with Marvin Peddicord on behalf of the owner, Norman Williams, Arlene
Williams, and Williams Appliance. Marvin Peddicord acted as a representative
for the Williams family, to Plaintiffs’ knowledge, not as an owner or co-owner.”
(Compl., ¶ 24.) “Rental payments have been made to Williams Appliance per the…verbal
agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) “At some point, either just before or after Norman
Edwin Williams passed away, the executive contacts for Williams Appliance,
Norwalk Electronics, Arlene Williams, Norman Williams, and Edwin Williams were
changed to members of the Peddicord family.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant Michael
Ray Peddicord, purporting to have acquired the property located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, but with documentation that is either
dubious or not properly filed, filed Unlawful Detainer actions (hereinafter ‘UDs’)
on the two commercial units located at the 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650 against Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “Defendant Michael successfully
evicted Plaintiffs from these units. The Unlawful Detainer case for APN:
8056-007-003 is identified as 23NWUD01174. The Unlawful Detainer case for APN:
8056- 007-004 is identified as 23NWUD01171. These UDs are currently pending
appeal.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “Defendants are harassing Plaintiffs by using a
Writ from a separate completed commercial UD case. This writ is being used to
intimidate and force Plaintiffs out of their residential unit, located at 12167
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, which is situated on an adjacent lot.”
(Compl., ¶ 18.) 
C.     Twenty-Fifth
Cause of Action for Adverse Possession – Color of Title 
Defendants assert that the twenty-fifth cause of action fails. In the
twenty-fifth cause of action for “adverse possession – color of title,”
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that they “have satisfied all legal
requirements for adverse possession under color of title and are entitled to
the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. Defendants’
claims to the property are without merit, and Plaintiffs seek a judgment to
perfect their title and secure their rightful ownership.” (Compl., ¶ 248.) 
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs’
claim of adverse possession is purportedly based on verbal agreements and
payment of rent to the previous owner. However, adverse possession under color
of title requires reliance on a written instrument, judgment, or decree.”
(Demurrer at p. 34:25-27.) Defendants cite to Safwenberg
v. Marquez (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d
301, 309, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]dverse possession may be based on either color of
title or a claim of right. Adverse possession under color of title is founded
on a written instrument, judgment or decree, purporting to convey the land, but
for some reason defective. Adverse possession under a claim of right is not founded on a
written instrument, judgment or decree.” Here, Plaintiffs’ twenty-fifth cause
of action is labeled “adverse possession – color of title.” (Compl., p. 44.) However,
Plaintiffs allege in this cause of action that they “have
occupied and used the property with the belief that they held rightful
possession based on verbal agreements with the now-deceased property owner and
payment of rent to the recognized owners, Williams Appliance… This occupation
has been without permission from Defendants, who now claim ownership.” (Compl.,
¶ 243.) Plaintiffs do not oppose the instant demurrer and thus do not address
Defendants’ point that “[a]dverse possession under
color of title is founded on a written instrument, judgment or decree,
purporting to convey the land, but for some reason defective.” (Safwenberg v. Marquez, supra,
50 Cal.App.3d at p. 309.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
twenty-fifth cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. 
D.    Twenty-Sixth
Cause of Action for Quiet Title 
Defendants assert that the twenty-sixth cause of action for quiet
title also fails. In this cause of action, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia,
that they “seek to quiet title to the property located at 12169 Firestone
Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, against any and all claims of Defendants. Plaintiffs
have held possession and use of the property for over twenty years,
continuously and openly, under a good faith belief in their right to the
property. This belief was based on verbal agreements with the now-deceased
property owner and consistent payment of rent to the recognized owners,
Williams Appliance…” (Compl., ¶ 251.) Plaintiffs allege that they “request the
Court to declare that Defendants have no valid claim to the property and that
Plaintiffs hold rightful title.” (Compl., ¶ 254.)
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “the Complaint fails to
adequately allege Plaintiffs’ interest in the Property.” (Demurrer at p. 36:8.)
Defendants cite to Code of Civil Procedure section
761.020, which is contained in “Chapter 4 Quiet Title.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 761.020, “the
complaint shall be verified and shall include,” inter alia, “[t]he title
of the plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought and
the basis of the title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the
complaint shall allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020, subd. (b).) As set forth
above, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ twenty-fifth
cause of action for adverse possession.  
In addition, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 761.020, subdivision (c), “the complaint shall
be verified and shall include…(c) The adverse claims to the title
of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought.” In the demurrer,
Defendants assert that Plaintiffs “do not clearly specify the
factual and legal basis or nature of Defendants’ claim to the property.”
(Demurrer at p. 36:23.) Plaintiffs do not oppose the demurrer and thus do not address
or dispute this point. Indeed, the twenty-sixth cause of action does not appear
to specifically describe “[t]he
adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is
sought.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 761.020, subd. (b).) Rather,
Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiffs seek to quiet title to the
property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, against any and
all claims of Defendants.” (Compl., ¶ 251.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
twenty-sixth cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.  
E.     Twenty-Seventh
Cause of Action for Accounting
Defendants also assert that the twenty-seventh cause of action for
accounting fails. Defendants note that “[a]n action
for an accounting has two elements: (1) that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting and (2) that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.” (Sass
v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861,
869 [internal quotations omitted].)  
Defendants
assert that “[t]he complaint does not sufficiently allege the
existence of a relationship between Plaintiffs and the Defendants that would
justify an accounting. Defendants maintain that there no [sic] fiduciary or
other qualifying relationship exists, which is critical to sustaining an
accounting claim…” (Demurrer at p. 37:22-25.) But Defendant cites to Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156,
179-180, where the Court of Appeal noted that “a fiduciary relationship
between the parties is not required to state a cause of action for accounting.
All that is required is that some relationship exists that requires an
accounting. The right to an
accounting can arise from the possession by the defendant of money or property
which, because of the defendant’s relationship with the plaintiff, the
defendant is obliged to surrender.” (Internal citation omitted.) In the
accounting cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that “[a] relationship
that requires accounting exists between Plaintiffs and Defendants. Plaintiffs
have made regular rental payments and other financial contributions for the
maintenance and operation of the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd.,
Norwalk, CA 90650…These payments were made under the belief that Defendants had
a legitimate claim to the property, which has now been disputed. Given the
nature of these financial transactions and the alleged misrepresentations by
Defendants, an accounting is necessary to determine the exact amounts owed and
to whom they should be paid.” (Compl., ¶ 258.) 
            Defendants also assert that there is
a “lack of complicated accounts” such that the accounting cause of action
fails. (Demurrer at p. 38:1.) Defendants cite to Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 401, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n action for an accounting is equitable in
nature. It may be brought to compel the
defendant to account to the plaintiff for money or property, (1) where a
fiduciary relationship exists between the parties, or (2) where, even though no
fiduciary relationship exists, the accounts are so complicated that an ordinary
legal action demanding a fixed sum is impracticable.” Here, Plaintiffs’
accounting cause of action does not appear to allege that a fiduciary
relationship exists between the parties. In addition, Plaintiffs do not appear
to allege that the accounts are so complicated that an ordinary legal action
demanding a fixed sum is impracticable. Plaintiffs do not oppose the demurrer
and thus do not address the Los Defensores case cited by Defendants. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
twenty-seventh cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.  
F.     Twenty-Eighth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief 
Lastly, Defendants assert that the twenty-eighth cause of action for
declaratory relief fails. In the declaratory relief cause of action, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that they “seek declaratory relief to remove any
claims Defendants have to the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd.,
Norwalk, CA 90650. The controversy involves the legal rights and duties of
Plaintiffs and Defendants concerning the property, and the need for a judicial
declaration to resolve the ongoing disputes.” (Compl., ¶ 264.) Plaintiffs
allege that “[g]iven the ongoing fraudulent conduct of Defendants and
Plaintiffs’ established adverse possession, Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief
to remove any claims Defendants have to the property and to affirm Plaintiffs’
rightful ownership.” (Compl., ¶ 267.)
            In the demurrer, Defendants argue, inter
alia, that Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief cause of action is duplicative
and unnecessary. Defendants cite to General of
America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he declaratory relief statute should not be used for the
purpose of anticipating and determining an issue which can be determined in the
main action. The object of the statute is to
afford a new form of relief where needed and not to furnish a litigant with a
second cause of action for the determination of identical issues.” The Lilly Court
further noted that “[t]he availability of another form of relief
that is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief.” (Id. at
p. 471.) Defendants
assert that here, “the resolution of other causes of
action, including but not limited to quiet title, fraud, and adverse
possession, will inherently address the issues raised in the declaratory relief
claim.” (Demurrer at p. 39:15-16.) Indeed, in the declaratory relief cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that “[g]iven the ongoing fraudulent conduct of
Defendants and Plaintiffs’ established adverse possession, Plaintiffs seek
declaratory relief to remove any claims Defendants have to the property and to
affirm Plaintiffs’ rightful ownership.” (Compl., ¶ 267.) Moreover, Plaintiffs
do not oppose the demurrer and thus do not address or dispute Defendants’
assertion that the declaratory relief cause of action is “duplicative and
unnecessary.” (Demurrer at p. 39:18-19.)  
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
twenty-eighth cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the twenty-fifth through twenty-eighth causes of action of the Complaint is
sustained, with leave to amend. As set forth above, in light of the ruling on
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion, Defendants withdrew their demurrer to the first
though twenty-fourth causes of action of the Complaint. (See November 12, 2024 Minute Order.)

The Court orders
Plaintiffs to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of
the date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the
Court orders Defendants to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal
within 30 days of the date of this order.¿¿¿ 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this Order.  
 
DATED:  December 4, 2024                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court