 Case Number:  23STCV19468    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



DOWNTOWN L.A. LAW GROUP,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DANIEL M. BORGA, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV19468 




Hearing Date:


December 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION TO ENTER
  EVIDENTIARY, ISSUE AND MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DOWNTOWN L.A. LAW GROUP,
  LLP IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $5,415.00



            
Background 
On
August 15, 2023, Plaintiff Downtown L.A. Law Group (“Plaintiff”) filed a “Complaint
in Interpleader” in this action against a number of Defendants, including
Daniel M. Borga and George Rappard, M.D. 
In
the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Defendant
DANIEL M. BORGA was rear-ended and pushed into the vehicle in front of him. The
collision occurred on April 30, 2016 at approximately 3pm near the intersection
of Doheny Dr and 3rd Street. The personal injury claim settled on or about
October 28, 2019.” (Compl., ¶ 3.) “The total settlement of the claim was
$160,000.00.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Defendant
Daniel M. Borga and Plaintiff signed a medical lien to pay Defendant GEORGE
RAPPARD, M.D. from settlement proceeds.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that
“Plaintiff’s attorney files this complaint of interpleader in good faith, and
deposits Defendant Daniel M. Borga’s trust sum of $160,000.00, since there is a
valid dispute between Plaintiff and Defendants as to the usual, customary, and
reasonable charges of the attorneys’ fees and costs.” (Compl., ¶ 17.)
 
On
November 29, 2023, George Rappard, M.D., Inc. (“Rappard”) filed an answer to
the Complaint. 
Rappard
now moves “for evidentiary, issue and monetary sanctions against
[Plaintiff] for failure to obey prior court orders.” Plaintiff filed a
“response” to the motion. 
Discussion 
Misuses
of the discovery process include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery”
and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.010, subds. (d), (g).) There are a broad range of sanctions
available against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process, including the issuance of monetary, evidentiary, issue, and
terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.)
“The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).) In addition, “[t]he court may impose an issue
sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the
action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) Further, “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
In
his declaration in support of the instant motion, Rappard’s counsel states that
“[o]n 12-5-23, I served Defendant’s First Set of Requests for
Production of Documents upon Plaintiff’s Counsel…” (Friedman Decl., ¶ 2.) Rappard’s
counsel states that “[w]hen no response was received, I filed a
motion to compel responses to the same discovery. That motion was set to be
heard on March 4, 2024. But in Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion, for the
very first time, Plaintiff alleged it never received the discovery due to an
error in the email address that I was using. So I appropriately took the motion
off calendar.” (Friedman Decl., ¶ 4.) Rappard’s counsel states, “I
emailed Plaintiff’s counsel and we agreed that discovery responses would be due
no later than March 27, 2024…No responses were received by March 27, 2024.”
(Friedman Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Rappard’s counsel indicates that “Plaintiff
responded to the discovery on April 3, 2024. The responses included multiple
objections, not code-compliant responses, and no documents identified with the
specific request number to which the documents respond.” (Friedman Decl., ¶ 8.)
Rappard’s
counsel “sent multiple emails to Plaintiff’s counsel in an
attempt to meet and confer on these deficiencies,” but “Plaintiff’s counsel refused
to respond to any of these overtures.” (Friedman Decl., ¶ 9.)  
Rappard notes that on September 26, 2024, an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”) was held in this action. The Court’s September 26, 2024
minute order provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“The parties
attended the Informal Discovery Conference. The Parties agreed and the Court
ordered as follows: 
 
1. On or before
October 2, 2024, Plaintiff will email to Counsel for Defendant Dr. Rappard a
separate link for each of the following: (a) The documents that support
Plaintiff’s claim to Attorney fees in this case, (b) The documents that support
Plaintiff’s claim to costs in this case and (c) any unprivileged evidence that
Defendant Borga disputes any lien claims in this case with a privilege log
listing any documents withheld on the basis of privilege. 
 
2. On or before
October 17, 2024, Plaintiff will e-serve Counsel for Plaintiff with a copy of
the requested retainer agreement (RFP 15). 
 
3. The Motion to
Compel Further set on November 22, 2024 is off calendar as moot.” 
Rappard’s counsel states that “[t]o this date, Plaintiff has not
provided any responses of any kind to Defendant’s First Set of Demand For
Production of Documents pursuant to the Court Order of Sept. 26, 2024.”
(Friedman Decl., ¶ 13.) 
As set forth above, Rappard moves “for evidentiary, issue and monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff…” (Notice of Motion at p. 1:24.) In the motion, Rappard
argues that the Court should “enter an order precluding Plaintiff from
presenting any evidence related to Plaintiff’s claims to any and all of the interplead
monies and further issue an order deeming all Plaintiff’s claims to interplead
monies waived and dismissed.” (Mot. at p. 10:11-14.) 
As an initial matter, it is unclear on what legal basis Rappard seeks
an order “deeming all Plaintiff’s claims to interplead monies waived and
dismissed.” (Mot. at p. 10:13-14.) To the extent Rappard is seeking terminating
sanctions against Plaintiff, Rappard’s notice of motion and the memorandum of
points and authorities in support of the motion do not state that such
sanctions are sought. The Court notes that pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subdivision (a), “[a] notice of motion must state
in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds
for issuance of the order.” Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Rappard’s
request for an order “deeming all Plaintiff’s claims to interplead monies
waived and dismissed.” (Mot. at p. 10:13-14.) 
As discussed, Rappard also seeks an order “precluding Plaintiff from
presenting any evidence related to Plaintiff’s claims to any and all of the
interplead monies…” (Mot. at p. 10:11-13.) As set forth above, “[t]he court may impose an evidence sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (c).) 
In its
response to the instant motion, Plaintiff does not appear to specifically
address Rappard’s request for evidentiary sanctions. Plaintiff asserts, inter
alia, that “[a]fter an informal discovery conference, the
Court required that DTLA provide discovery. On 11/12/24, this discovery was
provided in the format that the Court requested. A copy of the response is
attached as Exhibit ‘A.’ This discovery response is complete, except that DTLA
cannot find its retainer agreement.” (Response at p. 3:20-24.) Plaintiff also
states that “[t]he Court also ordered that DTLA file a privilege log. A copy of
the privilege log is attached as Exhibit ‘B.’” (Response at p. 4:3-5.) The
Court notes that the exhibits attached to Plaintiff’s response are not
authenticated. Plaintiff’s response refers to a “Declaration of Igor Fradkin,”
but such declaration does not appear to have been provided. Thus,
Plaintiff also does not provide any evidence demonstrating that Plaintiff “cannot
find its retainer agreement.” (Response at p. 3:23-24.) 
Moreover, “Exhibit A” attached to Plaintiff’s response
is a document dated April 3, 2024, captioned “Plaintiff Downtown L.A. Law
Group, LLP’s Responses to Defendant George Rappard M.D., Inc.’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One.” As noted by Rappard, these April 3, 2024
responses pre-date the Court’s September 26, 2024 IDC and September 26,
2024 minute order by several months.  
In addition,
as discussed, the Court’s September 26, 2024 minute order provides,
inter alia, that “[o]n
or before October 2, 2024, Plaintiff will email to Counsel for Defendant Dr.
Rappard a separate link for each of the following: (a) The documents that
support Plaintiff’s claim to Attorney fees in this case, (b) The documents that
support Plaintiff’s claim to costs in this case and (c) any unprivileged
evidence that Defendant Borga disputes any lien claims in this case with a
privilege log listing any documents withheld on the basis of privilege.”
Plaintiff does not appear to provide any evidence demonstrating that it
produced documents in accordance with the September 26, 2024 minute order. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has engaged in
a misuse of the discovery process by “[d]isobeying
a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010, subd. (g).) Thus, the Court grants Rappard’s request for
evidentiary sanctions, specifically, “an order precluding
Plaintiff from presenting any evidence related to Plaintiff’s claims to any and
all of the interplead monies…” (Mot. at p. 10:11-13.) 
Lastly, Rappard
seeks monetary sanctions. As set forth above, “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) “If
a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Ibid.) As set forth above, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has engaged in a misuse of the discovery process here. The Court does not find
that Plaintiff has demonstrated that it “acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
            In
his supporting declaration, Rappard’s counsel states that “I have
spent more than five (5) hours drafting the motion with the supporting
memorandum of points and authorities and this declaration. I anticipate
spending two (2) additional hours preparing and drafting a reply to any Defense
opposition. I also anticipate spending a total of two (2) hours preparing for
and attending the hearing on this motion. My regular hourly rate for handling
cases of this nature is $595.00 per hour. The filing fee for this motion was
also $60.00. Therefore, fees in the amount of $5,415.00 should be awarded...”
(Friedman Decl., ¶ 14.) The Court finds that the requested $5,415.00 in monetary
sanctions is reasonable. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Rappard’s motion is granted in part
and denied in part. 
The Court grants Rappard’s motion for evidentiary
sanctions, specifically, “an order precluding Plaintiff from presenting
any evidence related to Plaintiff’s claims to any and all of the interplead
monies…” (Mot. at p. 10:11-13.) The Court also grants Rappard’s motion for
monetary sanctions. Plaintiff is ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $5,415.00 to
Rappard within 30 days of the date of this Order. Rappard’s motion is otherwise
denied. 
Rappard is ordered to provide notice of this Order.¿
 
DATED:  December 4, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court