  Case Number:  18STCV05366    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MILDRED DEANG,
                        Plaintiff,          
            v.
YAKOOV MEIR, aka “JACOB MEIR,” 
  et al, 

                        Defendant(s).

YACOOV MEIR aka “JACOB MEIR,”
                        Cross-Complainant,
           
  v.
MILDRED DEANG and ROES 1 -50
 


  Case No.:  18STCV05366
      
[TENTATIVE AND PROPOSED] STATEMENT
  OF DECISION BY THE COURT AFTER TRIAL 
 
  date:  december 4, 2024
  time:   2:30 p.m.
  dept.:  50



 
 
[TENTATIVE AND PROPOSED] STATEMENT OF DECISION BY THE COURT AFTER TRIAL      
This matter came on for trial on May 2, 5, 10 and 11, 2023, and
March 11, 12 and 13, 2024 in Department 50 of the above-entitled Court before
the Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet, sitting without a jury. The Court, having
considered the evidence and read the trial briefs and closing arguments of
counsel, issues this tentative and proposed Statement of Decision. This
tentative and proposed Statement of Decision will become the Statement of
Decision unless, within 15 days hereafter, a party serves and files objections
to the proposed Statement of Decision. 
I.               
THE
CAUSES OF ACTION ALLEGED BY THE PARTIES
Plaintiff Mildred
Deang (“Deang”) has sued Defendant Yakoov Meir aka Jacob Meir (“Meir”) alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and deceit, conversion,
civil conspiracy and accounting. Meir has sued Deang for fraud, quantum meruit,
unjust enrichment, breach of written contract, breach of verbal contract and
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Deang has sued Defendant
Richard Peters (“Peters”) and Defendant Forever Rich, LLC (“Forever Rich”) for
fraud and deceit, conversion and civil conspiracy.[1]  
 
 
 
II.             
BREACH OF WRITTEN CONTRACT:  DEANG v. MEIR AND MEIR v. DANG
            Deang
and Meir have sued each other for breach of written contract. Both parties base
their breach of written contract cause of action on Exhibit 1, the Partnership
Agreement entered into by Meir and Deang as of January 2017 (the “Partnership
Agreement”). 
            The
Partnership Agreement
Pursuant
to the Partnership Agreement, Meir and Deang created a joint venture in the
form of a California LLC known as Atwater Brands, LLC (“Atwater” or the
“Company”). The membership interests in Atwater were owned equally by Meir and
Deang. The purpose of Atwater was to “create, develop, and market a swimwear
and apparel line, and to engage in other activities as the parties may agree
to in writing from time to time and to engage in other activities as set
forth herein.” (Emphasis added.)[2] No
evidence was presented at trial that Deang and Meir agreed in writing to engage
in other activities pursuant to the Partnership Agreement. Consequently,
Deang’s claim that the Partnership Agreement governed the New Rock Shoes investment
and the photography studio investment fails. Because the FAC does not include a
cause of action for verbal contract regarding the New Rock or the photography studio
investment, Deang may not recover in contract for damages she claims for Meir’s
breach of their agreement regarding the New Rock Shoes investment or for the photography
studio investment.
Pursuant
to paragraph 6.1 of the Partnership Agreement, Deang was the initial Manager of
Atwater, and pursuant to paragraph 6.2 of the Partnership Agreement, she was
not liable to Atwater or any Member (i.e., Meir) for “any acts performed
or omitted to be performed in good faith, for errors in judgment, or for other
acts or omissions not amounting to fraud, gross negligence or willful
misconduct.” Pursuant to paragraph 6.3 of the Partnership Agreement, the Members
“shall not be personally liable for any of the losses, debts or liabilities of
the Company.”
            Pursuant
to paragraph 4.1 of the Partnership Agreement entitled “INITIAL CAPITAL
INVESTMENT,” Deang agreed to make an initial advance to Atwater of “$50,000 for
the first three months of operation, and up to an additional $37,500 to cover
additional operating expenses for the following six months. Meir agreed “to
contribute his industry knowledge, expertise and contacts, artistic and
creative input to this venture.” In the same paragraph, Deang and Meir
acknowledged that they each had “already incurred substantial out-of-pocket
expenses and will not seek reimbursement for such unidentified expenses.”
Pursuant to this same paragraph, Atwater (not Meir) entered into a Promissory
Note and Security Agreement to secure reimbursement of Deang for the money she advanced.
Atwater is not a party in this litigation.
            The
evidence at trial established that during the first three months, Deang
delivered to Meir $30,000 in cash. Meir signed receipts acknowledging the cash
he received from Deang “on behalf of Atwater Brands LLC.” (Exhibits 4 – 8.) It
is unclear why Deang, the Manager of Atwater was delivering capital funds to
Meir when he was not the Manager of Atwater and his role as described in the
Partnership Agreement did not include managing the business of Atwater,
particularly the funds. Deang did not make the remaining $20,000 payment due to
Atwater for the first three months of operation of Atwater. There was no
evidence that an additional $37,500 was needed or requested by Deang as the
Manager for the following six months and no such further payments were made by
Deang.
            As
noted above, the Partnership Agreement applies only to a swimwear and apparel
line (referred to as “Solaire”) and activities the parties agreed to in writing
from time to time. Paragraph 1.3 of the Partnership Agreement more specifically
states that the purpose of the Company “is to jointly: (i) create,
market, develop, promote and distribute a swimwear or apparel line as mutually
agreed upon (hereinafter, the “Products”); (ii) carry on all activities
necessary or incidental to that purpose; and (iii) engage in all other lawful
acts or activities as the Members may decide from time to time. (Emphasis
added.) There was no evidence presented at trial that Deang and Meir “jointly”
created, marketed, developed, promoted or distributed “the Products” (i.e.,
the swimwear line). Instead, there was evidence presented that Meir used the
$30,000 in capital contribution from Deang to Atwater to create 30 swimsuits
for the Solaire swimwear line, but it is unclear who authorized Meir to use
$30,000 of Atwater’s capital for that purpose.
Paragraph
10.1 with the heading “PRODUCTS PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY” states that “the
Manager of the Company will be responsible for the day-to-day business affairs
of the Company.” There was no evidence presented at trial that Deang as Manager
of the Company handled the “day-to-day” business affairs of the Company; so it
is unclear who did what and with what impact.
            Regarding
Deang’s claim that Meir breached the Partnership Agreement, Deang must first
establish that she performed her obligations under the Partnership Agreement or
she was excused. (Oasis West Realty, LLC v Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821: “[The elements of a cause of action
for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4)
the resulting damages to the plaintiff”. (Emphasis added.)) Because she only
contributed $30,000 of the $50,000 she was obligated to contribute during the
first three months, Deang cannot establish that she performed her obligations
under the Partnership Agreement. She also did not establish at trial that she
performed the functions of the Manager of Atwater. The Court finds that Deang
may not recover on her cause of action for breach of written contract against
Meir. 
            Regarding
Meir’s claim that Deang breached the Partnership Agreement, he did not prove
any damages. He speculates in his Closing Brief in support of his
Cross-Complaint that he suffered lost profits from the Partnership because “he
was prevented from going to the next step and market and obtain orders.” He
speculates that the measure of his damages should be the balance of the investment
that Deang failed to make, namely $57,500 (p. 9, ll. 24-26). Meir cites no
authority for such a measure of damages. Moreover, any lost profits would have
belonged to Atwater, not Meir; as noted above, Atwater is not a party to this
litigation. Under paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Partnership Agreement, Meir was
entitled to a quarterly distribution if the Company had profits after deducting
for (a) any advances made to the Company (i.e., after Deang was
reimbursed for her $30,000), and (b) direct costs of the Company’s operations,
including …taxes, and providing for a reasonable operating reserve.” There was
no evidence at trial that there was a basis for a distribution of profits pursuant
to the Partnership Agreement. Consequently, Meir did not prove any damages and
the Court finds that Meir may not recover on his cause of action for breach of
written contract against Deang.
 
 
III.          
BREACH OF VERBAL CONTRACT
Although
both parties testified at trial regarding their investment and efforts to open
a New
Rock
shoe store for the Spanish shoemaker “New Rock,” neither party testified as to
the actual agreement of the parties regarding the New Rock Shoe investment. Neither
testified as to the formation of a verbal agreement, such as what they said to
each other, when they said it, what the terms of the agreement were, etc.
     There is no question that Meir and Deng
embarked upon an investment in New Rock shoes, but the terms of any purported verbal
contract were not established. Both parties testified in conclusory terms. Deang
testified that the New Rock shoes investment was part of the Partnership
Agreement, but as noted above, it was not. Meir considered it to be a separate
investment. The testimony of the parties did not establish the actual terms of
the agreement reached by the parties, only the conduct of the parties in
pursuing the investment.  
     Deang testified that in April of 2017,
they “went into another business, which is New Rock Shoes, and I wired $32,000
to New Rock Spain ... for the down payments for the shoes that [they] were
ordering” (TR. 5/2/23, 63:18-21; 64:22-27.) Because she believed the new
investment was being done under the Partnership Agreement, she testified that
they would split “50/50”; they would order shoes from Spain and they would
“fold [sic] the U.S. Franchise of New Rock. So it will be called New Rock USA.”
(TR. 5/2/23: 64: 5-11.) She acknowledged that per their agreement, she would
“put up the money to get the shoes. . . [she would] pay for the store
renovation and the shipping . . . fees for the furniture.” (TR. 5/2/23: 65:12-66:28.)
She testified that they would not be selling retail but they were going “to get
franchises from all over the U.S.” Meir told her that New Rock Spain had
already agreed that they would “hold the franchising of USA” and the business
would be called New Rock USA and Meir “was supposed to take care of all the
domains and everything else because he already had an agreement with New Rock
Spain.” (TR. 5/2/23: 66:6-67:4.) Meir found a store to lease. (TR. 5/2/23: 64:28-65:11.)
She acknowledged that Meir would not put up any money but he would take
advantage of his celebrity connections and handle marketing and sales. He also
was going to renovate the store for which she gave him money. (TR. 5/2/23:
67:20-26.) She testified that she wired the $32,000 to Spain, plus 6 days later
she gave Meir $27,000 through For the Stars. She paid $15,000 to For the Stars
for store renovation. She paid $3,000 to cover shipping fees for the store
furniture (via check from Atwater to Forever Rich) (TR. 5/2/23: 68: 4- 73:5.) Eventually,
Deang agreed to take over the lease obligation for the store Meir had located
and Meir agreed to pay the existing tenant $30,000 for her inventory. (TR.
5/5/23: 5:11- 7:17.) Deang paid the rent for October through December 2017.
(TR. 5/5/23: 7:21 – 10:6.) Because of the delay in Meir opening the New Rock
Shoe store, Deang eventually told Meir she could not continue to pay the lease
rent and asked him to find someone to buy her out. She told him that starting
in January 2018, she would not pay the rent and she testified that he was ok
with it. She testified that Elias Tabar took over and bought her out and that
he gave Meir $55,000. (TR. 5/5/23: 10:7- 12:10.) Eventually, there was an
assumption of the lease and a hold harmless agreement. (TR. 5/5/23: 17:12-
19:28.) She also testified that she made payments to the LADWP for the leased
space. (TR. 5/5/23:15: 18 – 17:6.) She also testified that Meir had said the
store would open first in June, then months later but it never opened. (TR.5/5/23:
20:1- 21:18.)
     Regarding the New Rock Shoes investment,
Meir was asked “[w]hat was Ms. Deang supposed to invest in terms of money?” His
answer was “It’s to get the location. And if we need to do construction, she
will pay for the construction and to get the merchandise to open the store.” (TR.
5/11/23: 6:2-6.) When repeatedly asked what dollar amount they discussed, Meir
was unable to testify as to the terms of their purported agreement – what she
said; what he said, what they specifically agreed to. Instead, he testified as to
his expectations for the cost of rent: “Q. But in terms of what dollar amount,
what did you discuss with Ms. Deang?  A.
Yes. I was getting to it, if I must say. So the rent for location on Melrose I
thought would be approximately between 2,500 to 6,000. . . . I found a location
for 3,400. . .  .Basically we found a few
locations. . . . . And then the construction wouldn’t be, like extremely
expensive. I figured it would be between 25- to 50,000, at the most. . . . The
fixtures, I knew how much its going to cost because I already discussed this
with the people from Spain. This was like, around 34,000 . . . . The shoes, I
said, is going to be between 50,000 to a hundred thousand. And of course, like,
it will take time to prepare all this because the collection that was working
on will take, like, between two to four months, 60 days to, like 120 days. . .
. We knew the whole process, how much it’s going to cost. I put the numbers.
She agreed to everything.” (TR. 5/11/23: 6:15 – 7: 16.) This testimony and
other parts of Meir’s testimony, falls very short of credibly establishing the
terms of a verbal agreement by the parties. These two parties trusted each
other, but did not adequately discuss or document the terms of the
understanding of the investment commitments they were making.  Moreover, it appears that the parties decided
to terminate their investment relationship in the  New Rock Shoes investment when Meir agreed to
arrange for the take over of Deang’s lease obligation through Forever Rich and
to indemnify her. There was no credible evidence that Deang had agreed to keep
paying for the lease or to pay for the costs of storage claimed by Meir.  Because Meir has not established the terms of
the verbal contract between him and Deang regarding the New Rock Shoes
investment, the Court finds that he is not entitled to recover against Deang on
that cause of action. 
IV.          
DEANG’S OTHER CAUSES OF ACTION AGAINST MEIR,
PETERS AND FOREVER RICH
     Deang alleges additional causes of action
against Meir for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty and
accounting against Meir, as well as fraud and deceit, conversion and civil
conspiracy against Meir, Peters and Forever Rich. The Court finds that Deang
has not proven these additional causes of action. 
A.    Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Fiduciary Duty
and Accounting as to Meir.
 
As noted above, Deang failed to establish that
she performed her obligations under the
Partnership
Agreement or that she was excused.  Consequently,
she is not in a position to sue Meir for breach of the Partnership Agreement,
whether the breach is of an express provision or an implied provision. Moreover,
she did not establish at trial how Meir breached the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. Similarly, Deang did not establish that Meir breached
any duty to act with utmost good faith in the best interests of his partner.
Meir produced the swimsuits described in the Partnership Agreement. Deang was
the managing partner and she offers no explanation as to how she oversaw the
funds of Atwater. Meir was not the managing partner, so he was not responsible
for the funds of Atwater. For that same reason, Meir does not owe Deang an
accounting since she was the managing partner for Atwater.  
B.   
 Fraud and Deceit, Conversion, Civil Conspiracy
and Accounting.
The testimony at the trial did not support
fraud or deceit, conversion or civil conspiracy by
Meir,
Peters or Forever Rich.  There was no
evidence at trial that Meir, Peters or Forever Rich made misrepresentations to
Deang or concealed information from her. Deang and Meir simply trusted each
other and engaged in investments without adequate written documentation of the
expectations of each party.  Similarly,
there was no evidence at trial that (a) funds paid by Deang were converted by
Meir, Peters or Forever Rich for their own use, or that (b) Meir, Peters and/or
Forever Rich entered into an agreement to perform any wrongful acts.  
V.             
MEIR’S OTHER CAUSES OF ACTION AGAINST DEANG
     In addition to his contract-based causes
of action, Meir asserts causes of action against Deang for fraud, quantum meruit, unjust enrichment and
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Regarding the latter, in
his Closing Brief on the Cross-Complaint, Meir addresses his cause of action
for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing with one sentence; he merely
states that he was denied the benefits of both the Partnership Agreement and
the New Rock investment and claims damages. He does not explain how Deang
breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Moreover, no evidence was
elicited at trial demonstrating any such breach. The Court finds that Meir has
failed to establish a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
     Regarding the fraud, quantum meruit and unjust enrichment causes of action, Meir bases
those causes of action on his claims related to what he calls the “Redondo
Pageant.” Meir’s claim is based on his conclusion that Deang made a profit on
the Pageant and did not give the profits to Philippine charities. However,
Meir’s assertion that Deang made such a profit is based upon pure speculation
rather than evidence. He assumes that the various sponsors contributed cash at
the levels Deang described for their level of sponsorship, overlooking the fact
that she also testified that the contributions could be “in kind” contributions
rather than cash, just as Meir’s contribution was in kind. (TR. 5/5/23:
41:6-18.) In his Closing  Brief on his
Cross-Complaint, he uses phrases like “Assuming each of the above 13 sponsors
paid . . . $10,000” (p. 5, lines 16-17) or “approximately 200 tickets were sold
. . . which should have raised an additional $10,000” (p. 5, lines 20-22). At
the same time, he acknowledges that “Deang testified that the total cost to put
on the pageant was $225,674.15.” (p. 5, line 27.) The Court finds that Meir has
not proven his causes of action for fraud, quantum meruit or unjust enrichment.
     
VI.          
CONCLUSION
     As
discussed above, the Court finds that Deang has not prevailed on her causes of
action against Meir, Peters and Forever Rich, and Meir has not prevailed on his
causes of action against Deang. 
    
Within ten days after this Statement of Decision becomes final, Deang is
ordered to file and serve a proposed judgment in accordance with this Statement
of Decision (with a courtesy copy delivered to Dept. 50). The Court hereby
dismisses with prejudice For the Stars, Does 1-50 and Roes 1-50.
            Deang
is ordered to give notice of this tentative and proposed Statement of Decision.
DATED:  December 4, 2024
                                                                        _________________________________
                                                                  HONORABLE
TERESA A. BEAUDET
                                                                  Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 
 


