 Case Number:  23STCV25232    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




global pond usa corporation

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
grab holdings limited

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV25232




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   8, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
specially appearing defendant’s motion to
  quash service of summons
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Altimeter Growth
Corporation     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Altimeter Growth Corporation’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)  While the court notes that this request was
filed in support of the reply papers, defendant Altimeter Growth Corporation
incorporated the matter to be judicially noticed in support of its moving
papers, such that it has not requested that the court take judicial notice of
new evidence in reply.  (Jay v.
Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537 [“The general rule of motion
practice . . . is that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers”].)
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court overrules plaintiff
Global Pond USA Corporation’s evidentiary objection to the entire declaration
of Sriram Raghunath Iyer (Objection No. 1). 

The court acknowledges, as
plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation has pointed out, that the moving
defendant did not file and serve this declaration in support of its pending
motion.  But (1) plaintiff Global Pond
USA Corporation does not dispute that it was served with this declaration by
the nonmoving defendants on February 2, 2024, in support of their motion to
quash, and (2) defendant Altimeter Growth Corporation expressly incorporated
this declaration by reference in its notice of motion, including by setting
forth the date of its filing, which is permitted by California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1110.  (Mot. to Quash filed Feb.
2, 2023, p. 21 [proof of electronic service of, inter alia, “Declaration
of Sriram Raghunath Iyer” on counsel for plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation
on February 2, 2024]; Not. of Mot., p. 1:11-15; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1110,
subd. (d) [“Any paper previously filed must be referred to by date of execution
and title”]; Roth v. Plikaytis (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 238, 291
[“Consistent with [California Rules of Court, rules 3.1110 and 3.1113], a
litigant may incorporate previously filed documents and, where
practicable, should file them with the motion. 
But a litigant is not required to do so absent a rule precluding
incorporation by reference”] [internal footnote omitted] [emphasis in
original].)
The court rules on the
remainder of plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation’s evidentiary objections as
follows:
Objections Nos. 2-6 are
overruled.
DISCUSSION
Specially appearing defendant Altimeter Growth Corporation
(“Defendant”) moves the court for an order quashing service of the summons and
complaint in this action, filed by plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation
(“Plaintiff”), on the ground that Defendant is a non-existent entity and
therefore may not be subjected to the court’s jurisdiction.  
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiff has requested
that the court continue the hearing on this motion so that it may take limited
jurisdictional discovery.  
“‘A trial court has the discretion to continue the hearing on a motion
to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the
plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.’  [Citation.] 
‘In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional
discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to
the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.’”  (Preciado v. Freightliner Customer Chassis
Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 972.)  Plaintiff did not present argument or
evidence (1) identifying the jurisdictional discovery that it intends to take,
and (2) showing that such discovery is likely to lead to the production of
evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. 

Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not supported its request for
a continuance and exercises its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s request to
continue this hearing to allow it to conduct additional discovery.  The court therefore rules on the merits of
Defendant’s motion.
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: [¶] (1) To
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  “When a defendant argues that service of
summons did not bring him or her within the trial court’s jurisdiction, the
plaintiff has ‘the burden of proving the facts that did give the court
jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.’”  (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 383, 387.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that the
court has jurisdiction over Defendant.  (American
Express Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 387.)
In support of its motion, Defendant has presented the following evidence
showing that it ceased to exist as a separate corporate entity as of December
2021, following a business combination and merger in November 2021.  
Defendant was formed as a special purpose acquisition company and was
incorporated in the Cayman Islands in August 2020 for the sole purpose of
effecting a combination with other businesses or entities.  (Decl. of Sriram Raghunath Iyer filed Feb. 2,
2024 (the “Iyer Decl.”), ¶¶ 16, 45.)  As
a special purpose acquisition company, Defendant had no business operations and
had no corporate affiliation with any entity in Grab Holdings Limited’s corporate
structure prior to November 2021.  (Iyer
Decl., ¶¶ 46-47.)  In November 2021, a
business combination took place, which involved “(a) a merger of [Defendant]
and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of [nonmoving defendant Grab Holdings
Limited] incorporated in the Cayman Islands (J2 Holdings Inc.), with the [nonmoving
defendant Grab Holdings Limited] subsidiary surviving and remaining as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of [nonmoving defendant Grab Holdings Limited]; and (b)
a subsequent merger of another direct wholly-owned Cayman Islands subsidiary of
[nonmoving defendant Grab Holdings Limited] (J3 Holdings Inc.) and [nonmoving
defendant Grab Holdings Inc.], with [nonmoving defendant Grab Holdings Inc.]
surviving and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of [nonmoving defendant Grab
Holdings Limited].”  (Iyer Decl., ¶ 48.)  
Thus, following the November 2021 merger, Defendant “ceased to exist
as a separate corporate entity, having been merged into the surviving Cayman
Islands subsidiary holding company wholly owned by [Grab Holdings Limited][.]”  (Iyer Decl., ¶ 49; Iyer Decl., Ex. 4, SEC
file No. 333-261949, p. 245 [stating, at the time of the merger, all the
property, rights, and liabilities of Defendant became a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Grab Holdings Limited “and the separate corporate existence of
AGC [(i.e., defined to be Defendant on page vii)] ceased to exist”]
[emphasis added].)
The court therefore finds that, based on this evidence, Defendant has
met its burden to challenge the court’s jurisdiction over it because (1) “[a]
cause of action is viable ‘only against a legal person’” and “no cause of
action can be maintained ‘against an entity which is legally nonexistent[,]’”
and (2) Defendant has shown that its separate corporate existence has ceased to
exist, such that it “may not be effectively served with summons as a named
defendant and may not be subjected to jurisdiction of a court by an entity of a
general appearance on its behalf.”  (Barajas
v. Sativa LA County Water Dist. (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1213, 1225; Omega
Video Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 470, 477;  Iyer Decl., ¶¶ 48-49 and Ex. 4, p. 245.) 
Plaintiff contends that the court has jurisdiction over Defendant
because (1) at the time this action was filed, Defendant was still listed as a
corporation registered with the California Secretary of State; (2) Defendant
consented to jurisdiction and to service on the California Secretary of State; and
(3) the authority relied on by Defendant in its papers is distinguishable.  The court disagrees. 
First, the court notes that Plaintiff has submitted copies of (1) the
Statements of Information that Defendant filed with the California Secretary of
State on October 27, 2020 and October 29, 2021, and (2) the Certificate of
Surrender that Defendant filed with the California Secretary of State on
October 18, 2023.  (Mazda Decl., Ex. A
[Oct. 18, 2023 Certificate of Surrender], Ex. C [Oct. 27, 2020 Statement of
Information], Ex. D [Oct. 29, 2021 “Corporation – Statement of Information No
Change”].)  Thus, Plaintiff has shown
that, as of the date that this action was filed (on October 16, 2023),
Defendant was still registered with the California Secretary of State.  However, Plaintiff did not present argument
or evidence showing that, solely because Defendant had not filed the
Certificate of Surrender as of the time of its filing of this action, the court
has jurisdiction over Defendant irrespective of the fact that it ceased to
exist following the November 2021 merger.  Moreover, Plaintiff did not file evidence
showing that Defendant was not involved in the merger or that it did not cease
to exist after the date thereof. 
Second, the court acknowledges that the Certificate of Surrender
states that Defendant “consents to process against it in any action upon any
liability or obligation incurred within the State of California prior to the
Filing of this Certificate of Surrender may be served upon the California
Secretary of State.”  (Mazda Decl., Ex.
A, Cert. of Surrender, p. 1, ¶ 3.)  However, Plaintiff has not presented argument
or authority establishing that this assertion replaces the rule that a
nonexistent entity cannot be sued in this state.  (Barajas, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1224 [an action cannot be maintained against an entity that is legally
nonexistent].)  Moreover, Plaintiff did
not serve Defendant in accordance with this assertion (i.e., Plaintiff did not
serve the California Secretary of State). 
(Proof of Service filed Mar. 27, 2024, POS-010, ¶¶ 2-3, 5, subd. (b)
[stating that Defendant was served with the summons and complaint in this
action by substituted service on March 20, 2024, by leaving the papers with
“Brad Gerstner – Authorized Agent/CEO and President”].)  The court denies Plaintiff’s request that the
court issue an order allowing Plaintiff to serve Defendant by serving the
summons and complaint on the Secretary of State, because it is improper to
request such relief in opposition papers. 
(Opp., p. 1:17-18.)
Third, Plaintiff contends that the authority relied on by Defendant
“only stands for the proposition that you cannot sue a purported entity that
did not exist when liability arose or when sued, even if an attorney makes a
general appearance for that entity that had never existed.”  (Opp., pp. 1:27-2:3.)  However, the Omega Video Inc. Court, in
stating that “[a] non-existent entity may not be effectively served with
summons as a named defendant and may not be subjected to jurisdiction of a
court by an entry of a general appearance on its behalf[,]” did not limit the
application of that rule as Plaintiff suggests. 
(Omega Video Inc., supra, 146 Cal.App.3d at p. 477.)  Moreover, Plaintiff has not cited authority
establishing that a nonexistent entity may be served and sued.  Instead, the weight of authority holds that
nonexistent entities may not be sued.  (Barajas,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 1224; Oliver v. Swiss Club Tell (1963)
222 Cal.App.2d 528, 537 [“A civil action can be maintained only against a legal
person, i.e., a natural person or an artificial or quasi-artificial person; a
nonentity is incapable of suing or being sued”].) 
The court therefore finds, for the reasons set forth above, that
Plaintiff has not met its burden to establish facts that give the court
jurisdiction over Defendant because (1) Defendant has shown, and Plaintiff has
not meaningfully disputed, that Defendant has ceased to exist as a separate
corporate entity, and (2) “[a] non-existent entity may not be effectively
served with summons as a named defendant[,]” such that the court must “quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over”
Defendant.  (Omega Video Inc., supra,
146 Cal.App.3d at p. 477; Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1); Iyer Decl.,
¶¶ 48-49 and Ex. 4, p. 245.) 
ORDER
            The court grants specially appearing
defendant Altimeter Growth Corporation’s motion to quash service of summons.
            The court orders that service of the
summons and complaint in this action, filed by plaintiff Global Pond USA
Corporation, is quashed.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
The court orders specially appearing defendant Altimeter Growth
Corporation to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal
within 10 days of the date of this order. 
 
            The court orders specially appearing
defendant Altimeter Growth Corporation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 8, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court