  Case Number:  20STCV26908    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Corina Godoy-Farias, LVN’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second and fourth causes of action.Defendant Corina Godoy-Farias, LVN shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendant Hossein Babaali, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second and fourth causes of action.Defendant Hossein Babaali, M.D. shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Moving parties to give notice. REASONINGDefendant Corina Godoy-Farias, LVN (“Nurse Godoy-Farias”) and Defendant Hossein Babaali, M.D. (“Dr. Babaali”) move the Court for an order granting summary judgment or adjudication in their favor as to Plaintiffs Ricardo Vasquez and Fidela Vasquez (“Plaintiffs”)’s claims for negligence – medical malpractice and negligent infliction of emotional distress against them.Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)Statute of LimitationsCode of Civil Procedure section 340.5 provides that “[i]n an action for injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.” Here, Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was injected with Ceftriaxone on August 30, 2017 (First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 19, 20), Decedent died on July 12, 2018 (First Am. Compl. ¶ 25), and Plaintiffs filed this action on July 16, 2020. Plaintiffs argue the statute of limitations was tolled due to falsification of the medical records, i.e., Decedent’s allergy to Ceftriaxone had been removed from the records, such that the time to file this action was tolled until Plaintiffs discovered the correct records and determined the other records were fraudulent.First, as to Nurse Godoy-Farias, in the Court’s January 5, 2024 ruling, the Court found there was no basis to conclude that Nurse Godoy-Farias was liable for fraud based on the falsification of medical records. Second, Nurse Godoy-Farias and Dr. Babaali provide evidence here that each Plaintiff stated in discovery responses that they suspected wrongdoing on August 30, 2017, and they served a notice of intent to sue in June 2018. (Godoy-Farias UMF Nos. 62, 63; Babaali UMF Nos. 52, 56.) While Plaintiffs rely on their discovery of a “green folder” with the correct records on July 23, 2019, when they sought to retain counsel (First Am. Compl. ¶ 29; Pls.’ UMF Nos. 62, 63), Plaintiffs had access to the medical folder since August 30, 2017, and Nurse Godoy-Farias did not have access to the records. (Godoy-Farias UMF Nos. 35-38, 59; Babaali Decl. ¶¶ 57-60.)“In order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action, a plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808 [quotation marks and brackets omitted].) “A plaintiff seeking to utilize the discovery rule must plead facts to show his or her inability to have discovered the necessary information earlier despite reasonable diligence. This duty to be diligent in discovering facts that would delay accrual of a cause of action ensures that plaintiffs who do ‘wait for the facts’ will be unable to successfully avoid summary judgment against them on statute of limitations grounds.” (Id. at p. 815, citation omitted.)The evidence provided by Nurse Godoy-Farias and Dr. Babaali allow them to show no triable issue of material facts exists as to whether Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the statute of limitations, as Plaintiffs had the green folder in their residence since the date of injury, such that they could have reviewed it and learned the facts informing their claims on that date, but they did not file this action until nearly three years later. In opposition, Plaintiffs dispute their ability to find the folder by stating that the records were kept in a separate unit where Decedent resided, and they did not return to the unit until one year after Decedent’s death. (Pls.’ UMF Nos. 62, 63.) Plaintiffs essentially argue that they could not have discovered the facts because they chose not to enter a portion of their residence, but the Court cannot conclude that choosing not to enter a portion of a residence constitutes a reasonable failure to learn informative facts, and Plaintiffs provide no legal authority requiring such a conclusion. Put simply, Plaintiffs had access to the folder and knew it was there because they placed in a box themselves; they simply chose not to access it. This does not establish an inability to learn the necessary information as required to invoke the delayed discovery doctrine.Accordingly, there is no triable issue as to whether Plaintiffs’ claims for negligence and negligent infliction of emotional distress are barred by the statute of limitations because Plaintiffs had access to the green folder with informative facts on August 30, 2017, but they failed to file this action nearly three years, almost two years beyond the statute of limitations. Thus, Defendant Corina Godoy-Farias, LVN’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the second and fourth causes of action, and the motion for summary judgment is therefore GRANTED, and Defendant Hossein Babaali, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second and fourth causes of action, because the asserted claims are barred by the statute of limitations.Standard of Care and CausationBoth Defendants also move for summary judgment or adjudication on the grounds that their conduct complied with the applicable standard of care, and their conduct did not cause Decedent’s injuries. While the motions have been granted on statute of limitations grounds, the Court also notes that Plaintiffs have failed to create a triable issue as to whether Defendants complied with the standard of care or caused Decedent’s harm.Nurse Godoy-Farias provides the declaration of Richard Cho, M.D., a physician practicing internal medicine and home health who is familiar with the ordering of Ceftriaxone for patients, who states that Nurse Godoy-Farias met the standard of care at all times when caring for Decedent, specifically as to the administration of Ceftriaxone to Decedent, reference to the medical records and determination as to whether Ceftriaxone was appropriate. (Godoy-Farias UMF Nos. 42-49.) Dr. Cho also states that to a reasonable degree of medical probability, none of Nurse Godoy-Farias’s conduct caused or contributed to Decedent’s death or Plaintiffs’ injuries. (Godoy-Farias UMF Nos. 54-58.) Dr. Babaali provides the declaration of Andrew S. Wachtel, M.D., a licensed physician certified in internal medicine, pulmonary disease, and critical care medicine, who states that the care and treatment provided by Dr. Babaali were within the standard of care, the prescription of Ceftriaxone was within the standard of care, Dr. Babaali was not required to review every record, there was no evidence that Decedent had an allergic reaction to Ceftriaxone, and no negligence can be attributed to Dr. Babaali or caused Decedent’s harm or Plaintiffs’ harm. (Babaali UMF Nos. 34-37, 39, 41, 42.) In opposition, Plaintiffs provide the declaration of Ashkan Lee Naraghi, M.D., an internal medicine and pulmonary and critical care medicine physician at Ashkan Lee Naraghi, MD, Inc. Notably, there is no indication in Dr. Naraghi’s declaration that he is familiar with home health medicine or the practice of nursing in such a context. However, the Court need not determine whether the declaration is sufficient, given the Court has granted the motions on statute of limitations grounds.Evidentiary ObjectionsNurse Godoy-Farias and Dr. Babaali object to the entire declaration of Ashkan Lee Naraghi, M.D., and statements therein. For the reasons stated above, the Court has concerns about Dr. Naraghi’s declaration and his qualifications to render the opinions in his declaration, but the Court declines to rule on the objections at this juncture, as the declaration was not material to the Court’s ruling herein, which grants the motions on statute of limitations grounds.ConclusionDefendant Corina Godoy-Farias, LVN’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second and fourth causes of action, and Defendant Hossein Babaali, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second and fourth causes of action. Defendants Corina Godoy-Farias, LVN and Hossein Babaali, M.D. shall prepare, serve, and submit proposed judgments as per statute.