 Case Number:  23STCV06268    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ISABEL RENDON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NICE KICKS HOLDINGS, LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV06268
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 17, 2024



 
On
March 21, 2023, Plaintiff Isabel Rendon filed this action against Defendant Nice
Kicks Holdings, LLC.
On
May 31, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer. 
The demurrer generally argues that Plaintiff is not a bona fide patron who
was denied access to a brick-and-mortar location, and Plaintiff cannot allege intentional
conduct.
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s discovery responses in different actions
(Motion, Exs. A-C) and orders and filings in other cases (Motion, Ex. E; Reply,
Exs. A-B) is denied.  The documents are irrelevant
to this action.
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of its locations listed on its website (Exhibit D) is
denied.  Information on websites can be reasonably
subject to dispute and are not proper subjects for judicial notice.  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 888-889; see also Huitt v. Southern Cal. Gas Co. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 1586, 1605 fn. 10.)
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
Plaintiff’s sole cause of action is for violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act.  Under the Act,
business establishments must provide people with disabilities with equal access
to their accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, and services.  (Civ. Code, § 51.)  “A plaintiff can recover under the Unruh Civil
Rights Act on two alternate theories: (1) a violation of the ADA (§ 51, subd. (f));
or (2) denial of access to a business establishment based on intentional discrimination.”  (Martinez v. San Diego County Credit Union
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1059 (Martinez I).)
A.        Plaintiff
Fails to Allege a Violation of the ADA.
The Complaint alleges that Defendant “owns and operates
Nice Kicks retail locations in California,” and those locations constitute places
of public accommodation.  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s website “is
a service, privilege, and advantage and accommodation of Defendant’s services and
physical retail locations” and “a service, privilege, advantage, and accommodation
that is heavily integrated with these physical retail locations, and provides advertising
and marketing information helpful to influencing consumers to visit and shop at
its physical retail locations.”  (Complaint
¶ 13; see Complaint ¶¶ 10-11.)  Because of
the website’s access barriers, Plaintiff has been deterred from visiting Defendant’s
physical locations.  (Complaint ¶¶ 7, 24.)
However, Plaintiff’s Unruh violations are based on “Defendant’s
denial of full and equal access to its Website, and therefore its products and services
offered thereby.”  (Complaint ¶ 4; see Complaint
¶¶ 7, 24.)  “Plaintiff genuinely wants to
avail herself of Defendant’s goods and services as offered on Defendant’s Website.”  (Complaint ¶ 8.)  The accessibility barriers prevented her from
“effectively browsing for Defendant’s products, amenities and services, privileges,
advantages, and accommodations that exist online unlike sighted users,” and she
has been deterred “on a regular basis from accessing the Website.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 23-24.)  
A website cannot constitute a “place of public accommodation”
in the context of Title III of the ADA.  (Martinez
v. Cot’n Wash, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1026-1053 (Martinez II).)  “Under current law, we cannot read this phrase
as including retail websites without any connection to a physical space.  The statutory language does not include a category
that encompasses such websites . . . .”  (Id.
at p. 1032.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant operates retail locations
in California, “including a location at 862 S. Main St., Los Angeles, California.”  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  However, Plaintiff resides in Madera County, California.  (Complaint ¶ 7.)  There is no nexus between Plaintiff’s allegations
about her use of the website and Defendant’s physical space.
Plaintiff also alleges that “Defendant is a retail business
that: (1) offers services to the public via its Website; (2) has a discrete, standalone
location or identity via its Website; and (3) provides significant amounts of information
to consumers on its Website, which is equivalent to or even more information than
what would be typically provided by either an on-site proprietor or its employees.”  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  Accordingly, it appears that Plaintiff cannot
allege that Defendant is a “place of public accommodation” with a nexus to any physical
space in the context of Title III without contradicting the Complaint’s allegations
of a “discrete, standalone location or identity via its Website.”
The demurrer is sustained on this ground.
B.        Plaintiff
Fails to Allege Intentional Discrimination.
“[A]bsent an ADA violation, the Unruh Act requires allegations
supporting ‘“willful, affirmative misconduct”’ [citation] with the specific intent
‘to accomplish discrimination on the basis of [a protected trait].’  [Citation.]” 
(Martinez II, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 1036.)  
The Complaint does allege that Defendant “has constructed
a Website that is inaccessible to Plaintiff, knowingly maintains the Website in
this inaccessible form, and has failed to take adequate actions to correct these
barriers even after being notified of the discrimination that such barriers cause.”  (Complaint ¶ 28.)  Accepting these allegations as true, they are
insufficient to establish the required intentional discrimination.  A plaintiff “cannot establish [a defendant’s]
intent to discriminate by showing only that its website does not allow visually
impaired individuals the same access available to those who are not visually impaired
(i.e., a disparate effect of a neutral structure), [so] it follows that [the defendant’s]
failure to address this disparate effect likewise cannot establish [the defendant’s]
intent to discriminate”  (Martinez II,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 1036.)  This
remains true even when the defendant fails to adequately respond to complaints about
the discriminatory effects.  (Id. at
p. 1037.)
The
demurrer is sustained on this ground.
C.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 