 Case Number:  22STCV18195    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE MENDEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CALIFORNIA L&M INVESTMENTS, INC., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV18195
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BIFURCATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 17, 2024



 
On
September 12, 2024, Defendant California L&M Investments, Inc. filed a motion
to bifurcate Plaintiff Jose Mendez’s request for punitive damages.
The
Court may order a separate trial of any cause of action or any separate issue in
furtherance of convenience or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition
and economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(b).)  The Court may also order the trial
of an issue to precede the trial on another issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)  “The court shall, on application of any defendant,
preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition
until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages
and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance
with [Civil Code] Section 3294.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 3295, subd. (d).)
Plaintiff
“does not take issue with the idea of bifurcation and having a punitive damages
phase generally,” but “it seems like a bit of overkill.”  (Opposition at p. 1.)  According to Plaintiff, Defendant appears to own
a substantial number of buildings where Plaintiff claims to have worked during his
employment, and he argues that “any order of bifurcation must be carefully crafted
so as not to prohibit testimony regarding Defendant’s ownership of said buildings,
even if it might implicate the financial state of the company.”  (Id. at pp. 1-2.)
As
Defendant notes, “[Plaintiff’s] concerns are focused on controlling testimony, which
are issues better raised in motions in limine.” 
(Reply at p. 2.)  Defendant also contends
that Plaintiff has no evidence about Defendant’s ownership of properties, so “any
such evidence is mere speculation and not subject to this motion.”  (Reply at pp. 2-3.)
Because
bifurcation is mandatory under these circumstances, the motion to bifurcate punitive
damages is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 