 Case Number:  22STCV41119    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PMH LABORATORY, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ANTHEM BLUE CROSS LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE
  COMPANY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV41119
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART AND
  OVERRULING IN PART DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 17, 2024



 
On
March 1, 2023, Plaintiff PMH Laboratory, Inc. filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company and Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross. 
The FAC alleges (1) violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”);
(2) negligence; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) quantum meruit; (5) goods and services
rendered; (6) money had and received; (7) open book account; (8) account stated;
(9) violation of Health and Safety Code section 1342.2; and (10) declaratory and
injunctive relief.  Plaintiff later stipulated
to the dismissal of its tenth cause of action.
On
January 19, 2024, Defendants each filed a demurrer.  The demurrers are identical aside from the names
of the parties.
Plaintiff
filed an omnibus opposition, and each Defendant filed a reply.  On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Omnibus
Surreply.  Plaintiff did not seek leave of
court to file this Surreply.  The Court
reviewed the Surreply and concludes it would not alter the outcome on this
matter in any event. Accordingly, the Court orders the Surreply STRICKEN for not
being filed in conformity with the law or a court order.
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of two documents that were referenced
in the FAC.  (Exhibits 1-2).  Because the FAC refers to these items, they are
appropriate matters for judicial notice. 
(Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956 fn.
6.) The request is granted.
Defendants
also request that the Court take judicial notice of two documents published on the
California Department of Managed Health Care’s (“DMHC”) public website (Exhibits
3-4).  The Court may take judicial notice
of DMHC’s acts as “[o]fficial acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments
. . . of any state.”  (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (c); Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
471, 484 (Arce).)  The request is granted.
Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the DMHC’s All Plan Letter (“APL”)
regarding APL 23-021 – Payment of COVID Claims for COVID-19 Tests.  The request is granted.
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th at p. 556.)
A.        There Is No Private Right of Action for
Violation of Section 1342.2 (Ninth Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot bring a claim for violation of Health and Safety Code
section 1342.2 because it does not provide for a private right of action.  (Demurrer at pp. 5-6.)
“[T]he
Knox–Keene Act expressly authorizes the DMHC to enforce the statute and does not
include a parallel authorization for suits by private individuals, [but] private
individuals can bring suit under the UCL for violations of the Knox–Keene Act.”  (Blue Cross of California, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1250.)
Plaintiff
argues that “[t]he Court should recognize §1342.2’s implied cause of action.”  (Opposition at p. 15.)  This is contrary to binding authority.
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
B.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Violation
of the UCL (First Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot plead that their conduct was unlawful or unfair under
the UCL.  (Demurrer at p. 8.)
California’s
UCL includes any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair,
deceptive, untrue, or misleading advertising. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) 
The UCL embraces “anything that can properly be called a business practice
and that at the same time is forbidden by law.” 
(Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co.
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  “By proscribing
any unlawful business practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and
treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently
actionable.”  (Ibid.; see Klein
v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969 [“Virtually any law can
serve as the predicate for a section 17200 action.”].)
According
to Defendants, “[d]espite PMH’s generalized allegation that it posted its ‘cash
price,’ the judicially-noticeable facts say otherwise.”  (Demurrer at p. 8; see id. at pp. 3-4.)  Defendants cite Plaintiff’s website, but the Court
cannot take judicial notice of the truth of the contents of the document.  Defendants argue that “PMH does not (and cannot)
allege that its full, billed charges equate to 125% of Medicare.”  (Id. at p. 9.)  The Court cannot decide this issue on this demurrer.
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff impermissibly seeks damages.  (Demurrer at p. 9.)  Plaintiff seeks, in part, “preliminary and permanent
injunctive relief that orders Defendants to cease this unfair competition,” as well
as restitution  (FAC ¶ 112.)
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
C.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Negligence
(Second Cause of Action).
Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants[’] conduct, including payment of certain claims for COVID
Testing and Services submitted by PMH established a duty of care.”  (FAC ¶ 115.) 
Defendants breached this duty “by denying payment and underpaying on claims
submitted to them by PMH for COVID Testing and Services.”  (FAC ¶ 116.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendants either assumed a duty of care
by “pay[ing] certain claims” submitted or was “under a statutory duty to comply
with” the CARES Act and Section 1342.2 fails. 
(Demurrer at p. 10.)  Defendants argue
that “a payor does not have a general duty not to underpay.”  (Ibid.)
“[H]ealth
care service plans owe a duty of care to noncontracting emergency service providers
in entering into their initial delegation contracts with IPAs or other RBOs.”  (Centinela Freeman Emergency Medical Associates
v. Health Net of California, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 994, 1019.)  At this demurrer stage, the Court cannot determine
whether Defendants owed a duty.
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
D.        Plaintiff May Plead a Claim For Unjust
Enrichment Third Cause of Action).
Plaintiff
alleges, “Under the belief that claims for COVID Testing and Services would be fully
paid for and reimbursed by Defendants as required by federal and state law, PMH
provided and continued to provide COVID Testing and Services to patients insured
by Defendants, thereby conferring a benefit to Defendants.”  (FAC ¶ 125.)
Defendants
argue that “California law does not recognize an independent cause of action for
unjust enrichment.”  (Demurrer at p. 10.)
“The
elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the ‘receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’  [Citation.]” 
(Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.)  Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, but
a court may construe a cause of action for unjust enrichment as a cause of action
for quasi-contract seeking restitution.  (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.)
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
E.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Quantum
Meruit and Goods & Services Rendered (Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action).
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff “does not and cannot allege that Anthem requested or benefited
from the COVID testing services at issue.” 
(Demurrer at p. 11.)  
“To
recover on a claim for the reasonable value of services under a quantum meruit theory,
a plaintiff must establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an
express or implied request for services from the defendant and that the services
rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant.”  (Ochs v. PacifiCare of California (2004)
115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.)
Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants knew and understood at all times that PMH was undertaking
to perform beneficial COVID Testing and Services for individuals insured by them
and that such COVID Testing and Services were not free.”  (FAC ¶ 128.) 
Plaintiff “has enriched Defendants by performing requested services for the
individuals insured by Defendants.”  (FAC
¶ 129.)  Additionally, “Defendants through
their conduct, including through the payment of certain claims for COVID Testing
and Services submitted by PMH, requested that PMH perform and continue to perform
COVID Testing and Services for Defendants’ benefit,” and Plaintiff “performed COVID
Testing and Services pursuant to Defendants’ implied request.”  (FAC ¶¶ 132-133.)  At the pleading stage, this sufficiently alleges
Defendants’ benefit.
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
F.         Plaintiff Does Not Sufficiently Allege
Money Had and Received (Sixth Cause of Action).
“A cause of action for money had and received is stated
if it is alleged the defendant ‘is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum “for
money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.”’  [Citation.]” 
(Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff “fails to plead facts to show that Anthem received any money
“which belongs to” PMH – let alone identify a specific sum of money.”  (Demurrer at pp. 12-13.)
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants, through payments
made by their insureds, received money that was intended, in part, to be used for
the benefit of PMH, an out-of-network health care provider that provided COVID Testing
and Services to the insureds.”  (FAC ¶ 137.)  But Plaintiff does not allege a specific
sum of money.
The
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
G.        Plaintiff Does Not Sufficiently Allege
Open Book Account or Account Stated (Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action).
An
open book account is a detailed statement constituting the principal record of one
or more transactions between a debtor and a creditor arising out of a contract or
some fiduciary relation, showing the debits and credits, entered in the regular
course of business, and kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 337a.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not allege a fiduciary relationship or that Plaintiff
was keeping an “account” or that Defendants agreed that any account reflected Anthem’s
“indebtedness.”  (Demurrer at p. 14.)
Plaintiff
alleges that it and Defendants “had financial transactions with each other involving
the payment for health care services performed by PMH for the benefit of Defendants
and their insureds.”  (FAC ¶ 141.)  Plaintiff kept an electronic account of the debits
and credits, and Defendants owe an amount of not less than approximately $14,320,439.92.  (FAC ¶¶ 142-143.)  This does not allege a fiduciary relationship
or Defendants’ agreement to its indebtedness.
The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
Similarly,
on the eighth cause of action for account stated, Plaintiff does not allege an agreement
on the amount due.  (See Opposition at p.
14; FAC ¶¶ 146-147.)  The demurrer to the
eighth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED with no leave to amend.
The
demurrer to the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 30
days’ leave to amend.
The
demurrer is otherwise OVERRULED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 