 Case Number:  23STLC05961    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  26 Cal. Automobile Ins. Co. v. Benson Crane, Inc. et al.,1. MOTION TO VACATE ORDER DEEMING MATTERS ADMITTEDTENTATIVE RULING:Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane’s Motion to Vacate Order Deeming Matters Admitted is DENIED.ANALYSIS:On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff California Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for automobile subrogation against Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane (erroneously sued as Benson Crane, Inc.) (“Defendant”). Defendant filed an answer on January 24, 2024. On August 14, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted and Request for Monetary Sanctions against Defendant. (Minute Order, 08/14/24.) Plaintiff filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant on September 9, 2024. The Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings initially came for hearing on December 12, 2024, at which time Defendant appeared and argued. (Minute Order, 12/12/24.) The Court continued the hearing to January 22, 2025 and Defendant filed the instant Motion to Vacate Order Deeming Matters Admitted on December 16, 2024, set for hearing concurrently. Plaintiff filed an opposition on January 15, 2025. DiscussionDefendant moves for relief from the order deeming Requests for Admission admitted against him pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300, which states in relevant part: “[t]he court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd, (b).) The Motion does not include facts that demonstrate how the admissions were the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Defendant submits a declaration attaching a contract that purports to absolve him of liability in this action but does not address failing to timely respond to the discovery propounded and the resulting order deeming the requests for admission admitted. (Motion, Benson Decl., ¶2 and Exhs. A-B.) The merits of this action are not part of the Court’s consideration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300. Defendant contends that he was denied due process and equal protection rights to challenge the order deeming the requests for admission admitted, but does not explain how. (Id. at ¶4.) Proofs of service of all relevant documents, including the Motion to Deem Requests for Admission, are in the record. Therefore, Defendant has not demonstrated a basis for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300.ConclusionDefendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane’s Motion to Vacate Order Deeming Matters Admitted is DENIED.Court clerk to give notice.2. MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGSTENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff California Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.ANALYSIS:On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff California Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for automobile subrogation against Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane (erroneously sued as Benson Crane, Inc.) (“Defendant”). Defendant filed an answer on January 24, 2024. On August 14, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted and Request for Monetary Sanctions against Defendant. (Minute Order, 08/14/24.) Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant on September 9, 2024. The Motion initially came for hearing on December 12, 2024 and was continued following Defendant’s appearance at the hearing. (Minute Order, 12/12/24.) At the hearing, Defendant reported to the court that he had an opposition brief for the court to review. The court ordered that Defendant had permission to file his late opposition brief and also ordered Defendant to serve the opposition on Plaintiff. No opposition to the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings has been filed to date. The court notes that Defendant filed a separate Motion to Vacate the Court's Order Deeming Matters Admitted, but not an opposition to the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.DiscussionPlaintiff moves for judgment on the pleadings, the standard for which is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer. That is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O’Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)While a statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, et seq. must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, there is no such requirement for a motion for judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to the common law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 439 [moving party must file declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed].) Plaintiff’s Motion is accompanied by a request for judicial notice of the matters deemed admitted in Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission, Set One, Admitted, and this Court’s August 14, 2024 order deeming the Requests for Admission admitted against Defendant. The Court takes judicial notice of these admissions pursuant to Cal. Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d). (Cal. Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d); Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Evans v. California Trailer Court, Inc. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 540, 549) [holding that the court may take judicial notice of matters that cannot be reasonably controverted, including “admissions and concessions.”].) The admissions in the Request for Admissions directly contradict the general denial and affirmative defenses asserted in Defendant’s Answer. The admissions admit that Defendant, during the operation of a crane, caused an electrical surge on the property of Plaintiff’s insured that caused damage to the property. (RJN, Exh. 2 at Exh. A, Request for Admission Nos. 1-4.) They also admit that Defendant failed to act with reasonable care in the operation of the crane and as a result, Defendant caused damage to a power line on the insured’s property, and to the property. (Id. at Request for Admission Nos. 5-7.) The admissions admit that Defendant’s negligence caused the insured, and subsequently, Plaintiff to incur damages of $11,888.23. (Id. at Request for Admission Nos. 8-10.) Finally, Defendant admits that the affirmative defenses asserted in the Answer lack merit and evidentiary support. (Id. at Request for Admission No. 11.)By this Motion, Plaintiff has demonstrated that it served Defendant with Requests for Admissions that effectively establish the truth of the allegations in the Complaint, as detailed above. The admissions establish the facts upon which Plaintiff based its Complaint and that Defendant has not alleged a defense to Plaintiff’s Complaint in the Answer. Therefore, judgment on the pleadings is appropriate against Defendant. ConclusionPlaintiff California Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.Moving party to give notice.