 Case Number:  24STLC03828    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  26 Chen v. IDD (Int'l) Investment, Inc., et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:
Plaintiff Zhiwei Chen’s Motion for Order Authorizing Service on Secretary of State is GRANTED.  
ANALYSIS:
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff
Zhiwei Chen (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed this action for property damage, fraud, and money laundering
against Defendant IDD (Int’l)
Investment, Inc. (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Order Authorizing Service on Secretary
of State on July 8, 2024. The Motion initially came for hearing on October 11,
2024 and was continued for further briefing. (Minute Order, 10/11/24.)
Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief on November 19, 2024. To date, no
opposition has been filed.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves for an order authorizing service on
Defendant through the Secretary of State pursuant to Corporations Code sections
1702. Code of Civil Procedure section 416.10 provides that a summons may be
served on a corporation, if authorized, by any provision in Corporations Code
sections 1701, 1702, 2110 or 2111. Under Corporations Code section 1702, this
includes by hand delivery “to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed
in the Secretary of State’s office in the capacity of assistant or deputy.”
(Cal. Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).) Service on the Secretary of State’s
Office is permitted if the corporation’s agent “cannot with reasonable
diligence be found at the address designated for personally delivering the
process . . . and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court
that process against a domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable
diligence upon the designated agent.” (Cal. Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff has
demonstrated by affidavit their inability to serve Defendant despite reasonable
diligence. Plaintiff’s requests to the Sheriff’s Office and to process servers
to effectuate service have been unsuccessful. (Motion, Chen Decl., Exh. A.)
Service by mail was also unsuccessful because no authorized recipient was
available. (Id. at Exhs. B-C.) The service attempts were at the address
provided to the California Secretary of State as that of Defendant’s agent: 3940
N Charlotte Ave., San Gabriel, California. (Id. at Exh. D.) Therefore,
Plaintiff has demonstrated the corporation’s
agent “cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for
personally delivering the process . . . and it is shown by affidavit to the
satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic corporation cannot be
served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent.”
Conclusion
Plaintiff Zhiwei Chen’s Motion for Order Authorizing Service on Secretary of State is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give
notice