 Case Number:  23AVCV00066    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is an action stemming from
the lease of real property located at 46645 60th St. West, Lancaster, CA 93536
(“the Property”). Plaintiff Leilani L. Antoine (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
Defendants Charles E. Mosman (“Charles”[1]);
Sandra Mosman (“Sandra”); Mosman’s Country Steakhouse & Bar, Zubie
Enterprises, Inc. (“Zubie Enterprises”); and Charles E. Mosman DBA Mosman’s
Town & Country Carpet & Construction (“Mosman’s Town & Country
Carpet & Construction” and collectively “Defendants”) are former commercial
tenants of hers. Plaintiff further alleges damages stemming from their time as
her tenants. 
 
On January 18, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging once cause of action for General Negligence and
four causes of action labelled “Intentional Tort.”
 
On February 24, 2023, Defendants
filed their Demurrer with Motion to Strike to the Complaint, subsequently
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for General
Negligence and Intentional Tort (four cases of action with this label).
Plaintiff also wrote in, but not did not provide an attachment, for a cause of
action under Cal. Pen. Code § 496(c). 
 
On May 30, 2023, Defendants filed
their Demurrer with Motion to Strike to the FAC, subsequently sustained with 30
days’ leave to amend. 
 
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an Ex Parte Application for Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”). The Ex Parte Application for Leave to File a SAC requested leave to
include a sixth cause of action for battery against Charles and a seventh cause
of action against all defendants for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage. The matter was continued to August 14, 2023 as Department
A-14 was dark on August 11, 2023. On August 14, 2023, the Court denied the Ex
Parte Application for Leave to File a SAC as no exigent circumstances existed
to hear it on an ex parte basis. The matter was scheduled for regular hearing
on September 19, 2023. 
 
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a substitution of attorney, substituting William Garrett Cothran as
counsel. 
 
On September 19, 2023, the
following were held by the Court: (1) an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”),
(2) the hearing on the Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint, (3) a Case
Management Conference (“CMC”), and (4) an Order to Show Cause (“OSC”) RE:
Dismissal. Plaintiff was represented by her counsel of record, William Garrett
Cothran (“Cothran”); and Defendants were represented by their counsel of
record, Karen M. Stephanyan for Patrick J. Foley (“Stephanyan”). The Court
denied Defendant’s oral motion to dismiss without prejudice and advised that a
noticed motion may be filed. The OSC RE: Dismissal and hearing on the Leave to
File a Second Amended Complaint were taken off calendar. The CMC was continued
to January 12, 2024.
 
On October 04, 2023, Defendants
filed their Motion to Dismiss.
 
On October 24, 2023, Defendants
filed a Notice of Non-Opposition regarding their Motion to Dismiss. 
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint, set for hearing on December
12, 2023. 
 
On October 31, 2023, the Court
held a hearing on the Motion to Dismiss. No opposing papers were filed;
however, Cothran appeared on behalf of Plaintiff. Stephanyan appeared for
Defendants. Oral argument was presented by each counsel for their respective
client. The Court granted the motion.
 
On December 06, 2023, the Court held
a non-appearance case review. The Court noted that the action was dismissed on
October 31, 2023; the Court ordered the FAC, filed on April 27, 2023, dismissed
with prejudice; and the Court vacated the December 12, 2023 Hearing on Motion
for Leave to Amend the Complaint and the January 12, 2024 CMC. 
 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this Motion to Set Aside Dismissal. 
 
On February 28, 2024, Defendants
filed their Opposition. 
 
No Reply has been filed. “. .
.[A]ll reply papers [hall be filed with the court and a copy served on each
party] at least five court days before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a right may be
exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion, papers
opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.)
Here, the motion is set for March 12, 2024. Accordingly, a Reply was due by March
05, 2024. Should a Reply be filed, it is now untimely. 
 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard to Set Aside – ¿“ ‘ A motion for relief under section 473 is
addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate court
will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.’ ” (Burnete¿v.
La Casa Dana Apartments¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1262, 1266.)¿ “Although a
trial court has discretion to vacate the entry of a default or subsequent
judgment, this discretion may be exercised only after the party seeking relief
has shown that there is a proper ground for relief, and that the party has
raised that ground in a procedurally proper manner, within any applicable time
limits.” (Cruz v.¿Fagor¿America, Inc.¿(2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Additionally, the California
Supreme Court has held the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Section 473 is
often applied liberally where the party in default moves promptly to seek
relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief
is granted. [Citations.] In such situations “very slight evidence will be
required to justify a court in setting aside the default.” [Citations.] [¶]
Moreover, because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits,
any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief from default. [Citations.] Therefore, a trial court order
denying relief is scrutinized more carefully than an order permitting trial on
the merits. [Citations.]¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(Elston¿v. City of Turlock¿(1985)
38 Cal.3d 227, 233-34.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b)
permits the Court to “relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or through
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.”¿(Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) “Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Plaintiff
moves to set aside the dismissal entered on October 31, 2024. (See Mtn. to Set
Aside Dismissal 1:19-23.)[2]
Plaintiff presents the following timeline:
 
·      
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss on October
04, 2023, the motion was served to the Law Office of Loa and Cothran (the firm
of Cothran), the attorney’s assistant filed the notice in the client’s file but
did not inform either attorney of the motion;
·      
Neither attorney reviewed the case online and,
as a result, the time to respond was not calendared;
·      
Cothran discovered a “motion of no response” on
October 24, 2023 on October 25, 2023;
·      
Cothran believed that filing a motion for leave
to amend would satisfy the need to respond and filed a Motion for Leave to
Amend the Complaint on October 30, 2023; 
·      
The Court granted the dismissal on October 31,
2023.
 
However, Cothran’s declaration
supports only the following:
 
·      
Richard Loa (“Loa”), Cothran’s partner was
supposed to originally handle this matter during the month of September 2023
and into the month of October 2023, but Loa’s ill health limited his time in
the office and Cothran’s ability to contact Loa which led to Cothran being
unaware that the amended complaint had not been prepared for filing; 
·      
From October 06, 2023 to October 18, 2023,
Cothran was out of office due recovery from an emergency dental surgery; 
·      
Cothran prepared the amended complaint only upon
receiving the Notice of Non-Opposition on October 25, 2023; and
·      
Cothran believed he needed to prepare a motion
for leave to amend the complaint due to how drastically the amended complaint
was compared to the previous complaints.
 
(See Decl. Cothran ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
Cothran’s declaration regarding
his knowledge is contradicted by the Court’s records. The Court takes judicial
notice of its records pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d). The Court provides
this tentative to incorporate the respective documents, discussed infra,
as part of the record for the purpose of this motion and to afford each party reasonable
opportunity to meet such information before judicial notice of the matter may
be taken. (See Cal. Evid. Code § 455.) The Court’s records show:
 
·      
The hearing on the Demurrer to the FAC was
sustained with 30 days’ leave to amend on July 11, 2023 (see 07/11/2023 Minute
Order), making the date the amended pleading needed to be filed by Thursday,
August 10, 2023;
·      
On August 15, 2023, Cothran substituted in (see
Substitution of Attorney filed 08/16/2023);
·      
On September 19, 2023, the the following were
held by the Court: (1) an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”), (2) the
hearing on the Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint, (3) a Case Management
Conference (“CMC”), and (4) an Order to Show Cause (“OSC”) RE: Dismissal.
Cothran was present for these hearings. At the hearings, with Cothran present,
the following relevant events occurred: (1) Defendants made an oral motion to
dismiss; (2) the Court denied the oral motion without prejudice; and (3) the
Court advised that a noticed motion to dismiss may be filed (see 09/19/2023
Minute Order).
 
Therefore, Cothran’s presentation
to the Court is inaccurate. Cothran was aware that a Motion to Dismiss would be
filed as early as September 19, 2023. Cothran’s declaration does not attest to
a calendaring error. Thus, the presentation that the attorney’s assistant filed
the notice in the client’s file but did not inform either attorney of the
motion is unsupported. Likewise, the presentation that neither attorney
reviewed the case online and, as a result, the time to respond was not
calendared is unsupported. While Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473 does not provide a
statutory requirement that there be an affidavit of the merits to support a
motion under subdivision (b), where the burden is on moving party to place
before court such material as will show that ends of justice will be served by
granting relief under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473, an affidavit may be only
efficacious method of bringing facts before court. (See Plummer v. Superior
Court of Los Angeles County (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 841, 843-44 [discussing requirement
of affidavit under the 1963 version of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473 in the leave
to amend context].) 
 
Here, only the following is
supported:
 
·      
Cothran substituted in after the amended pleading
was due;
·      
Cothran is required to perform legal services
with competency (see Cal. State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.1.
Competence) and with reasonable diligence (see id. at Rule 1.3
Diligence), thus Cothran should have been aware that the action had no
underlying pleading and action needed to be taken;
·      
Cothran was present for September 19, 2023
hearings and, as such, was aware of the status of the case and that a motion to
dismiss was to be filed due to the failure to file a Second Amended Complaint
by the Court Order; and
·      
Cothran’s filed a Motion for Leave to Amend the
Complaint on October 30, 2023, set for a hearing on a different date from the
Motion to Dismiss. 
 
No action was taken by Cothran
until October 30, 2023, over two months after Cothran was retained. 
 
Thus, based on the presentation
by counsel and the court’s records, it does not appear that the dismissal
stemmed from mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect as the issue
with the pleadings had been present since Cothran substituted into the case and
no action was taken until October 2023. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that relief
is mandatory under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).
 
Regarding Plaintiff’s citations
to Yeap v. Leake (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 591 (“Yeap”), Yeap
is distinguished as it is based on calendaring errors. (See Yeap, supra,
60 Cal.App.4th 591 [generally].) However, Cothran’s actions that are supported
evidence inaction rather than error. Surprisingly, Cothran does not cite the
most relevant case on this matter – Daley v. County of Butte (1964) 227
Cal.App.2d 380 (“Daley”) which created the Daley exception. Daley
and its progeny created an exception to the general rule that an attorney’s
negligence is imputed on a client. The exception occurs where an attorney
abandons the client through a total failure to represent the client. (See Daley,
supra, 227 Cal.App.2d 591 [generally]; see also Fleming v. Gallegos
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 68 [summarizing the Daley exception and cases
where it applied].) However, such an exception requires that the client be
relatively free from negligence. (See Daley, supra, 227
Cal.App.2d 395.) Here, Plaintiff herself is not relatively free from
negligence. That is, unlike in Daley where it was held that the
ignorance of Plaintiff was due to secretarial error (i.e., failure to inspect a
file until several weeks after its arrival) and counsel’s ongoing misconduct,
including retention of the client file for five months without executing the
substitution of attorney files, Plaintiff in this action was aware an amended
pleading needed to be filed, retained counsel only after the amended pleading
was due, and no action was taken once counsel was retained despite Plaintiff’s
awareness of the matters within her case. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b)
does state: “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court
shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” First, as discussed ante,
Cothran’s errors alone are not the sole reason for the dismissal as Plaintiff
represented herself in pro per, retained Cothran only after an amended
pleading was due, and was aware of the matters within her case both before and
after Cothran was retained. Next, Leader v. Health Industries of America,
Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603 (“Leader”) has analyzed this same
section in a similar context and found that Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473 did not
apply. Specifically, the Leader court explained that “the ‘day in court’
envisioned by [prior case law] is not a guaranteed trial on the merits, but
merely the opportunity to appear and present evidence and argument in
opposition” to a motion. (See Leader, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at
621.) While the motions in Leader’s cited case discussed motions to
dismiss, Leader discussed how their plaintiffs had a day in court in
opposition to the demurrers, availed themselves of the opportunity, had an
opportunity to amend, and belatedly attempted to do so. (See ibid.) That
is, the Leader court held that a trial court acted within its discretion
under Code of Civil Procedure section 58(f)(2), in granting the defendant's
motion to dismiss for failure to file the amendment in time. This is directly
applicable to the case at hand as Plaintiff opposed the Demurrer with Motion to
Strike on its merits and does not challenge the ruling sustaining the Demurrer.
Further, while Cothran elected to file a separate motion instead of an
Opposition to the Motion to Dismiss, Cothran appeared on behalf of Plaintiff
and presented oral argument, thus, availing Plaintiff of the opportunity to appear
and present evidence and argument in opposition to the Motion to Dismiss. (See 10/31/2023
Minute Order.) 
 
The Court notes that had it been
able to relieve Plaintiff under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b), there is no proposed
pleading to accompany this motion. The statute states clearly, in relevant part:
“Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, . . .” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) [emphasis added].) 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Set
Aside Dismissal is DENIED.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Leilani L. Antoine’s Motion to Set Aside
Dismissal is DENIED. 


