  Case Number:  22AVCV00272    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a motor vehicle –
personal injury action. Plaintiffs Jessica Joseph (“Jessica”)[1]
and Jay Joseph (“Jay” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that on November
18, 2020, on or about 10th Street West at or near the 14 Freeway Southbound
exit ramp in the City of Palmdale, County of Los Angeles, State of California, Defendant
Jerry Wood, Jr. (“Wood, Jr.”) failed to exercise due care in the management,
operation, and use of their vehicle and, as a result, struck a singular
unspecified plaintiff’s vehicle, causing damages to the unspecified plaintiff.
Defendant Fairmount Contractors LLC (“Fairmount” and with Wood, Jr.,
“Defendants”) is alleged to be the owner of the vehicle and negligently
entrusted, allowed, and permitted Wood, Jr., to use its vehicle when it knew or
should have known that Wood, Jr., (1) did not possess the requisite skill,
care, control, training, knowledge and management to operate a motor vehicle;
(2) did not possess the requisite skill, care, control, training, knowledge and
management to operate a motor vehicle on the public streets of the County of
Los Angeles; and (3) would and could endanger the health and well-being of
persons on the street and in vehicles in the area where he operated their
vehicle.
 
On April 20 2022, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging three causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle by
Plaintiffs against Defendants; (2) General Negligence by Plaintiffs against
Defendant; and (3) Loss of Consortium by Jay against Defendants. 
 
On June 06, 2022, Fairmount filed
its Answer. 
 
On April 03, 2023, Wood, Jr.,
filed his Answer. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants
filed this Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Answer. 
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Opposition. 
 
On March 05, 2024, Defendants
filed their Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Leave to Amend Answer – “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1).) 
 
California law holds that leave to amend is
to be granted liberally, to accomplish substantial justice for both parties. (Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 488-89.) “Assuming proper notice,
the trial court has wide discretion in determining whether to allow the
amendment, but the appropriate exercise of that discretion requires the trial
court to consider a number of factors: ‘including the conduct of the moving
party and the belated presentation of the amendment. The law is well settled
that a long deferred presentation of the proposed amendment without a showing
of excuse for the delay is itself a significant factor to uphold the trial
court’s denial of the amendment.’” (Leader v. Health Ind. of America, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613. Absent prejudice, trial delay alone is not
grounds to deny a motion for leave to amend. (See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 563-65.) In particular, liberality is displayed in allowing
amendments to answers, for a defendant denied leave to amend is permanently
deprived of a defense. (Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
115.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendants
present that there was an arbitration proceeding between the insurance companies
for Defendants and Plaintiffs on June 10, 2021 and it was decided that
Plaintiff was 60% liable and Defendants were 40% liable as to property damage
only. (See Motion 2:27-3:2, 6:9-12.) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
will not be prejudiced by the amendment as (1) no new discovery or very little
additional discovery would be needed; (2) there would be no delay in trial as
Plaintiffs’ counsel is aware of the arbitration decision and no depositions
have occurred; (3) there was no bad faith or intentional delay in bringing this
motion; and (4) “the trial is scheduled for May 24, 2024, meaning the discovery
cut-off is June 24, 2024” (Motion 5:9-10; Decl. Ching ¶ 9). Defendants argue
that the amendments are necessary as res judicata and collateral estoppel are
proper affirmative defenses and, whether liability was decided as to the
parties by their insurance carriers should be determined upon a motion for
summary judgment. Defendants present that they have adhered to Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324 requirements. 
 
Defendants have presented that
the discovery cutoff will occur 30 days after the trial. The Court believes
Defendants mean April 24, 2024 as the discovery cutoff is 30 days before trial.
(See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.020.)  
 
The Court notes that counsel for
Defendants, David Ching, has provided a declaration that states “there was a
previously arbitration that decided liability as it relates to these facts and
circumstances,” but does not attest to the date of the arbitration proceeding
and the determination as stated in the Memorandum of Points and Authorities. No
attachment has been provided with the moving papers that evidences an
arbitration proceeding has occurred.  
 
As there is no evidence provided
by Defendants as to the arbitration proceeding and its determination,
Defendants’ presentation is purely conclusory. 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ Opposition
provides more information regarding the arbitration proceeding; however, the
burden is on Defendants to meet their burden in establishing a factual and
legal basis for leave to file an amended answer. For reasons, ante,
Defendants have failed to do so.
 
Had the Court found that
Defendants had met their burden, it appears that the arbitration award was
unconfirmed. (See Decl. Jason G. Eisenberg, Exh. 4.) Each party has provided
cases that they believe supports their respective arguments as to whether an
unconfirmed award between two insurers is binding on the parties. “An
arbitration award may only be enforced as written and, when confirmed, the
award is reduced to a final and enforceable judgment.” (Mossman v. City of
Oakdale (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 83, 89.) An unconfirmed arbitration award
“has the same force and effect as a contract in writing between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.6.) Defendants are asking the Court to allow them to
amend their Answer to include res judicata and collateral estoppel. The
unconfirmed arbitration award is not a final and enforceable judgment and, as
such, res judicata is not a proper affirmative defense. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
Motion for Leave to Amend without prejudice. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Jerry Wood, Jr., and Fairmount Contractors,
LLC’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Answer is DENIED without
prejudice.


