

 
            This is an employment discrimination
case brought by Plaintiffs Thomas Villanueva (Villanueva) and Hernando Quitero
(Quitero) (Plaintiffs) against former employer, Robbins Brothers Jewelry, Inc.,
and their former supervisor, Mark Pimental (Pimental) (jointly, Robbins
Brothers). Plaintiffs allege their employment was terminated based on their
religion and for reporting unlawful activity. 
 
The
operative complaint asserts the following five causes of action: (1)
discrimination based on religion; (2) harassment based on religion; (3)
retaliation for complaints of religious discrimination and/or harassment; (4)
retaliation for reporting violations of law (Labor Code § 1102.5 and 1102.6);
and (5) wrongful termination.
 
            Now,
Defendants move for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication. Plaintiffs
oppose the motion.
 
            The
motion for summary judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication is granted
in part and denied in part. 
 
Evidentiary Issues:
 
 Plaintiff’s objections to Defendants’ evidence
are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-13 are overruled. 
 
Defendant
objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-44, 46-48, 51-56,
58-67, 69-79, 81-108, 110-115, 117-162, 165-172 are overruled, and Nos. 45, 49-50,
57, 68, 80, 105, 109, 116, 164 are sustained.[1] Objection
No. 163 contains an objection but provides no legal basis for it and,
therefore, is overruled. Objections Nos. 173-190 fail to cite to any the
specific objectionable material and are overruled. 
 
Defendants’
objections to the declaration of Villanueva are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-8 are
overruled. Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Quintero are ruled as
follows: Nos. 1-6 are overruled. Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Leslie
are ruled as follows: Nos. 1, 6 are overruled, and Nos. 2-5, 7 are sustained. Defendant’s
objections to the declaration of Bradley are ruled as follows: Nos. 1, 3-7 are
overruled, and No. 2 is sustained.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The party moving for summary judgment
bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of
material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
            “California uses the three-stage
burden-shifting test established by the United States Supreme Court for trying
claims of discrimination based on a theory of disparate treatment,” known as
the McDonnell Douglas test. (Scotch v. Art Institute of California
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1004.) Under the McDonnell Douglas test, “the
plaintiff [first] has the burden of establishing a prima facie case of
discrimination. Second, if the plaintiff meets this burden, the employer must
offer a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment
decision. Third, and finally, the plaintiff bears the burden of proving the
employer's proffered reason pretextual.” (Knight v. Hayward Unified School
Dist. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 121, 129.)
 
            ” ‘A defendant employer's motion for
summary judgment slightly modifies the order of these [McDonnell Douglas]
showings.’ “ (Scotch, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 1005.) To
prevail on summary judgment, the defendant employer is “required to show either
that (1) plaintiff could not establish one of the [prima facie] elements of the
FEHA claim, or (2) there was a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for its
decision to terminate plaintiff's employment.” (Avila v. Continental
Airlines, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1247.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
Robbins
Brothers move for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot
establish all the elements of their claims and there are no triable issue of
material fact in dispute.  
 
First Cause of
Action for Discrimination (Issue No. 1): 
 
            Defendants move for summary adjudication
of the first cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot establish
prima facie case for discrimination and Defendants had a legitimate,
non-discriminatory reason for Plaintiffs’ termination. 
 
            Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (a) makes it “unlawful” “[f]or an employer, because of the race, religious
creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental
disability, reproductive health decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status of any person... of any
person, ... to discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment.”
 
            In cases alleging adverse employment
actions in violation of FEHA, the trial courts generally apply the same
three-stage, burden-shifting test established by the United States Supreme
Court for trying claims of discrimination based on a theory of disparate
treatment. (See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792,
802–804.) “This so-called McDonnell Douglas test reflects the principle
that direct evidence of intentional discrimination is rare, and that such
claims must usually be proved circumstantially.” (Guz v. Bechtel National,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354.) The McDonnell Douglas test is
inapplicable where the plaintiff presents direct evidence of discrimination,
that is, evidence which, if believed, proves the fact of discriminatory animus
without inference or presumption. (Trop v. Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1144–1145.) 
 
            “[T]he FEHA's discrimination
provision addresses only explicit changes in the ‘terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment’ (§ 12940, subd. (a)); that is, changes involving some
official action taken by the employer. [Citation.]” (Roby v. McKesson
Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706.) Such official action by an employer with
respect to an employee includes “hiring, firing, failing to promote, adverse
job assignment, significant change in compensation or benefits, or official
disciplinary action.” (Ibid.)
 
            To make out a FEHA violation based
on direct evidence, a causal connection must be shown between discriminatory
attitudes by supervisors expressed in words or actions and the adverse
employment actions in issue. (Trop, supra, at pp. 1146–1149; see also DeJung
v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 550.)
 
Here,
the evidence shows that Plaintiff Villanueva was employed by Robbins Brothers
from October 2000 to May 2020. (DSS 2.) He was also a Jehovah’s Witness and was
baptized as a Jehovah’s Witness in June 2014. (DSS 4.) Plaintiff Quintero was
employed by Robbins Brothers from October 2005 to May 2020. (DSS 5.) He was
also a Jehovah’s Witness and was baptized as a Jehovah’s Witness in June 2006.
(DSS 7.) Both Plaintiffs discussed their religious beliefs at work. (DSS 9.)
 
In
September 2017, Plaintiff Villanueva submitted a complaint to then Director of
Human Resources Cheryl Albert (Albert) on behalf of Plaintiff Quintero and
other members of the Credit/Collection Department, asserting that members of
the Credit/Collection Department who identified as Jehovah’s Witnesses felt
they were being mistreated, harassed, and discriminated against by Carolyn
Shearer (Shearer) and Credit/Collections Manager Alex Iglesias (Iglesias). (DSS
14.)[2]

 
Following
an investigation by Albert and Human Resources Manager Gina Ortiz (Ortiz),
Plaintiff Quintero (writing on behalf of himself and two other employees in the
Credit/Collections Department) sent Cheryl Albert and Bruce Ross an email
stating “the harassment and discrimination [they] were experiencing seems to
have stopped for now” and “appreciate[d] all of [their] hard work in this
matter.” (DSS 18.) Thereafter, Shearer voluntarily resigned from her position
with Robbins Brothers on February 16, 2018. (DSS 19.)
 
            In March 2018, a meeting was held
between Defendant Pimental, CEO Andy Heyneman, Plaintiff Villanueva, Plaintiff Quintero,
and Kelvin Bradley (an employee in the Credit/Collections Department who also
identifies as a Jehovah’s Witness); at the meeting, Heyneman and Pimental asked
Villanueva, Quintero and Bradley to prepare a list of suggestions of what they
would like to see happen to address their concerns. (DSS 21.) After the discussions,
some of Quintero and Bradley’s suggestions were adopted by Robbins Brothers. (DSS
24.) One measure that Robbins Brothers took to address Plaintiffs’ concerns was
the creation of the Asset Protection Department and the promotion of Plaintiff Villanueva
to Asset Protection Director and Plaintiff Quintero to Asset Protection
Associate. (DSS 25.)
 
Plaintiffs
assumed their new roles on June 1, 2018. (DSS 27.) They both received pay
increases in connection with these new roles. (DSS 27.) Defendant Pimental
oversaw the Asset Protection Department, with Plaintiff Villanueva reporting
directly to Defendant Pimental and Plaintiff Quintero reporting directly to Plaintiff
Villanueva. (DSS 28.)
 
            Then, on or around March 20, 2020,
Robbins Brothers was required to close its stores due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
(DSS 29.) In response to these store closures, Defendant Robbins Brothers laid
off 32 employees in 2020, which represented approximately 11% of Robbins
Brothers’ workforce at the time. (DSS 35.)
 
Plaintiffs
were two of the 32 employees impacted by the reduction in force (RIF). (DSS 35.)
Defendants’ evidence shows that the decision to include Plaintiffs’ positions
in the RIF was made after weighing the services provided and the need to reduce
costs – not based on any discriminatory animus. (DSS 38.)  
 
            To prove discriminatory intent, Plaintiffs must establish that
their religion was a “substantial motivating factor” for the adverse action. (Harris
v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal. 4th 203, 231-232.) Defendant argues
that the only evidence related to discriminatory animus came from conduct
alleged against Shearer but who resigned before any adverse employment decision
was made with respect to Plaintiffs. 
 
            Based on the foregoing evidence, Defendants have shifted
their initial burden of showing that Plaintiffs’ positions for the reduction in
force was not motivated by discriminatory animus. (DSS 29-41.)
 
            The opposition argues there is ample evidence of discriminatory motive
for the adverse employment decision. 
 
            Plaintiffs first point to an exchange between Robbins Brothers’ CEO
Marc Friedant (Friedant) and Plaintiffs in August 2018 (shortly after Friedant
became CEO) where Plaintiffs’ asked Friedant if he was aware of Plaintiffs’
history of complaints of religious discrimination and harassment at Robbins
Brothers; Friedant said he was, and he called Plaintiffs “schmucks.” (PMF 21.) 
 
In another instance, on November
15, 2018, Friedant sent a text message to Robbins Brothers VP of Finance
Christine Benigo (Benigo), in which Friedant made a comment about Jehovah’s
witnesses, writing “I said your doorbell rang. Could’ve been Jehovahs [sic]
Witnesses!” in response to Benigo writing that she “can’t get [her] work done
cuz too busy with late nite booty calls.” (PMF 22.)
 
            Finally, on July 13, 2019, Friedant and Benigo had another text
exchange in which Benigo wrote that she had “peed on a stick” and it “came back
[positive] … Does that mean I’m having twins?” Friedant wrote, “Probably not,
but it does mean that Thomas Villanueva is getting thrown out of Kingdom
Hall…,” referring to the Jehovah’s Witness place of worship. Benigo responded
with laughing emoji and wrote “Good one!!!” (PMF 23.) 
 
            Plaintiff describes this evidence as “making” fun of Jehovah’s
Witnesses. 
 
            Plaintiffs also argue Defendant Pimental demonstrated
discriminatory animus based on a number of management decisions that suggests
disparate treatment based on religion and comments. In a February 25, 2019
meeting, Pimental referred to Plaintiffs as martyrs during a conversation in
which Plaintiffs were complaining about retaliation and interference with their
asset protection duties. (PMF 146, 147.) In March 21, 2019, after Villanueva
quoted scripture in an email to another employee, Pimental told Villanueva that
this employee was uncomfortable with discussions about God and asked Villanueva
not to quote scripture in emails. (PMF 149–151.) In April 2019, Pimental
instructed Villanueva to read a book by an evangelical minister, which
contained an entire chapter on spirituality, and attend a seminar about the
book. (PMF 152–154.)
 
Additionally, in February 2020,
Plaintiffs were “singled out” to sign documentation requiring Plaintiffs to
preserve records relating to former employee James Leslie, who had sued Robbins
Brothers after being terminated. (PMF 158.) In response, Plaintiffs expressed
concern in writing that this was a continuation of the pattern of
discrimination against them and asked if non-Jehovah’s Witnesses were also
being asked to sign the document. (PSS 158-160.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue that Pimental
treated Plaintiffs differently than other direct reports he managed by
insisting that he be on the asset protection email distribution list and
requiring Plaintiffs to create a project tracker so that Pimental could monitor
every task Plaintiffs completed. (PMF 145.)
 
            Plaintiffs’ evidence is insufficient to shift their burden of demonstrating
discriminatory animus by either direct or circumstantial evidence. 
 
            Here, with respect to the two texts written by Friedant touching on
Plaintiffs’ religion, the Court notes that they occurred eight months apart.
Moreover, while the comments are unprofessional, they do not demonstrate bias
based on Plaintiffs’ religion that casts the religion in a derogatory light.
(See e.g., Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830,
867 [no discriminatory motive from stray remarks raising only weak suspicion of
discrimination].) That is, the comments are not derogatory in nature against
Plaintiffs’ religion.
            
            Similarly, the evidence of Pimental’s management provides no evidence
of religious discrimination, and fails to shift Plaintiffs’ burden. That is,
while Plaintiffs argue they were treated differently by Pimental than other
employees, they Plaintiffs fail to show that other employees were similarly
situated such that inference of disparate treatment based on religion is
supported by the evidence. 
 
            Further,
Defendants’ evidence also demonstrates a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason
for its actions. 
 
            In
a reduction in force case, “where jobs are eliminated and
duties reallocated during a general work force reduction, the issue of discriminatory motive becomes more
complicated.” (Guz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 366.) 
 
For example, in the case of an age
discrimination case, a plaintiff must “show, prima facie, that persons
significantly younger, but otherwise similarly situated, were ‘ “treated more
favorably.” ‘ “ (Ibid.) This is because “the
decision to discharge a qualified, older employee is not inherently suspicious
[and in] a [reduction in force], qualified employees are going to
be discharged.” (Brocklehurst v. PPG Industries, Inc.
(6th Cir.1997) 123 F.3d 890, 896.)
 
            Robbins Brothers laid off employees from a variety of positions across
multiple departments. (DSS 37.) Plaintiffs’ positions were not filled by other
employees that were not Jehovah Witnesses but were absorbed by several others
Robbins Brothers’ employees – including Pimental, Director of Store Operations
Carlos Batista, and Director of Infrastructure Micah Resley. (DSS 41.)
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiffs were the only employees in
Operations who were not offered a transfer before being terminated, and the
Asset Protection Department, which consisted solely of Plaintiffs, was the only
Department eliminated in the RIF. (PMF 30, 34, 35, 69–75.) Despite Defendants’
profitability in 2020, Defendants did not offer Plaintiffs their jobs back.
(PMF 87–91.)
 
            None of this opposition evidence demonstrates pretext. Rather, the
evidence suggests that this newly formed department, Asset Protection
Department, was deemed non-critical. (DSS 31-41; PMF 56-58.) Plaintiffs argue
that security and fraud prevention are critical to Robbins Brothers’
profitability as a retailer of jewelry, suggesting specifically that Plaintiffs’
Asset Protection Department is essential. (PMF 33, 61.) However, the evidence shows
Robbins Brothers was “unusually” profitable in 2021 – after the Asset Protection
department had been eliminated. (PMF 29, 87.) 
 
To avoid summary judgment by indirect evidence, an employee in this
situation cannot “simply show the employer's decision was wrong, mistaken, or
unwise. Rather, the employee ‘ “must demonstrate such weaknesses,
implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the
employer's proffered legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable
factfinder could rationally find them ‘unworthy of credence,’ [citation], and
hence infer ‘that the employer did not act for the [ ... asserted] non-discriminatory
reasons.’ [Citations.]” [Citations.]” (Horn v.
Cushman & Wakefield Western, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 798, 807; Hersant v.
Department of Social Services, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at 1005.) This,
Plaintiffs fail to do.
            Thus,
Plaintiffs have failed to raise a triable issue of material fact by showing discriminatory
animus by the decision-makers for the adverse employment action or that
Defendants’ legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason for its actions was pretextual. Plaintiffs’ first
cause of action fails. 
 
            The motion for summary adjudication of Issue No. 1 is granted. 
 
Second Cause of Action for
Harassment (Issue No. 2):
            
Defendants move for summary adjudication
of the second cause of action on the grounds that it fails as a matter of law
because the undisputed facts show that neither Robbins Brothers nor Pimental
subjected Plaintiffs to severe or pervasive unlawful conduct to meet the legal
standard for actionable harassment.
 
“ ‘The law prohibiting harassment
is violated “[w]hen the workplace is permeated with discriminatory
intimidation, ridicule and insult that is ‘ “sufficiently severe or pervasive
to alter the conditions of the victim's employment and create an abusive working
environment.” ’ ” ’ ” (Caldera v. Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 31, 38; see Serri v. Santa Clara
University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 869). “Since ‘there is no possible
justification for harassment in the workplace,’ an employer cannot offer a
legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for it.” (Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis
Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 927.)


First, Defendants argue that – to
the extent Plaintiffs’ harassment claim is based on alleged conduct by Shearer
and/or Iglesias that occurred in 2017 or earlier – the claim is time barred.
 
            In 2016, Quintero’s supervisor, Shearer, told Quintero that he
would have to accept a birthday gift from her even though she knew Quintero did
not celebrate birthdays as a result of his faith. (PMF 102, 103.) Between 2016
and 2018, Shearer “taunted” Quintero 15 to 20 times about not participating in
holidays activities. (PMF 106.) Between October 2016 and September 2017,
Shearer repeatedly harassed Quintero on account of his faith. (PMF 107.) In
front of Quintero, Shearer mockingly asked another Jehovah’s Witness employee,
Keith Perez, if Perez had thrown his Jehovah’s Witness Bible at a colleague.
(PMF 110, 111.) Further, in late 2016 and throughout 2017, Shearer repeatedly
denied Quintero’s requests for religious accommodations to his scheduled
shifts. (PMF 112.) Shearer removed Quintero’s language concerning Jehovah from
the personal comments section of Quintero’s 2016 performance review. (PMF 113.)
In July 2017, Shearer called Quintero “shady” and stated that she wanted to get
rid of him. (PMF 114.)
 
            The conduct attributable to Shearer ceased in 2017 when she
resigned on February 16, 2018. (Pimentel Decl., ¶ 11.) Likewise, no conduct is
attributed to Iglesias after 2017. (PMF 107-109, 112, 115, 125-126.) 
            
            Under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code, §
12900 et seq.; FEHA), an administrative complaint alleging harassment must be
filed with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing “after the expiration
of one year from the date upon which the alleged unlawful practice ...
occurred....” (Gov. Code, § 12960, subd. (d).) Once the department provides a
“right-to-sue” letter, the plaintiff may file an action based on the
allegations made in the administrative complaint. (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd.
(b).) The employee must file his or her civil action under FEHA within one year
of the DFEH's right-to-sue notice. (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs filed claims with
the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH) against Robbins Brothers
Jewelry, Inc., concerning the unfair employment practices, on June 5, 2020.
(FAC ¶ 3.) The Complaint in this action was not filed until February 23, 2021.
Thus, a harassment claim is barred to the extent it is based on conduct
predating this statute of limitations period. 
 
In response, Plaintiffs argue that
they are not pursuing claims based on conduct prior to May 30, 2018.[3]

 
Rather, Plaintiff takes the
position that there was a “culture of discrimination against Jehovah’s
Witnesses at Robbins Brothers that dates back to 2012, and which included the
termination of two other Jehovah’s Witnesses who had complained about religious
discrimination and top executives who mocked Jehovah’s Witnesses in private
texts.” (Opp. 19:24-28.) Notwithstanding this argument, Plaintiffs point to no
actionable harassment conduct that occurred within the limitations period.  
 
            First, in February 2020, Plaintiffs were “singled
out” to sign documentation, and they expressed concern in writing that this was
a continuation of the pattern of discrimination against them. (PMF 158-160.) Second,
Plaintiffs argue that Pimental treated Plaintiffs differently than other direct
reports he managed by insisting that he be on the asset protection email
distribution list and requiring Plaintiffs to create a project tracker so that
Pimental could monitor every task Plaintiffs completed. (PMF 145.) 
 
This conduct does not constitute harassment
as a matter of law. That is, an employment decision, generally, cannot
constitute harassment under FEHA.
 
“Harassment includes but is not
limited to ... [v]erbal harassment, e.g., epithets, derogatory comments or
slurs on a basis enumerated in the Act.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11019,
subd. (b)(2)(A); see Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 129.) “ ‘[H]arassing conduct takes place “outside the
scope of necessary job performance, conduct presumably engaged in for personal
gratification, because of meanness or bigotry, or for other personal motives.”
[Citation.] “Thus,
harassment focuses on situations in which the social environment of the
workplace becomes intolerable because the harassment (whether verbal, physical,
or visual) communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee.”
’ ” (Serri v. Santa Clara University, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 869;
see Roby v. McKesson Corp., supra, 47 Cal.4th
at p. 706.) “Harassment is not conduct of a type necessary for management of
the employer's business or performance of the supervisory employee's job.” (Reno
v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 646.) 
 
For example, the court in Janken
v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55 explained that “commonly
necessary personnel management actions such as hiring and firing, job or
project assignments, office or work station assignments, promotion or demotion,
performance evaluations, the provision of support, the assignment or nonassignment
of supervisory functions, deciding who will and who will not attend meetings,
deciding who will be laid off, and the like, do not come within the meaning of
harassment. These are actions of a type necessary to carry out the duties of
business and personnel management. These actions may retrospectively be found
discriminatory if based on improper motives, but in that event the remedies
provided by the FEHA are those for discrimination, not harassment. Harassment,
by contrast, consists of actions outside the scope of job duties which are not
of a type necessary to business and personnel management. This significant
distinction underlies the differential treatment of harassment and
discrimination in the FEHA.” (Id. at pp. 64–65.)
 
            Plaintiff also points to conduct by Pimental, during a February 25,
2019 meeting, Pimental sarcastically referred to Plaintiffs as martyrs during a
conversation in which Plaintiffs were complaining about retaliation and
interference with their asset protection duties. (PMF 146, 147.) In that
conversation, Pimental also clapped his hands at Plaintiff. (PSS 146.) 
 
            As noted
in the discrimination discussion above, Plaintiffs also identify several other
situations that they felt demonstrated religious discrimination and/or
harassment – such as being asked not to quote scripture in company emails or
being asked to read a book as part of company training that was written by an
evangelical minister. (PMF 149-154, 162.)  
 
            The
conduct identified by Plaintiffs in this limited statute of limitations period
is neither severe nor pervasive. 

            When the severity of
harassment is at issue “ ‘ “[t]hat inquiry requires careful consideration of
the social context in which particular behavior occurs and is experienced by
its target.... The real social impact of workplace behavior often depends on a constellation
of surrounding circumstances, expectations, and relationships which are not
fully captured by a simple recitation of the words used or the physical acts
performed. Common sense, and an appropriate sensibility to social context, will
enable courts and juries to distinguish between simple teasing or roughhousing
... and conduct which a reasonable person in the plaintiff's position would
find severely hostile or abusive.” ‘ “ (Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television
Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.) 
The conduct Plaintiffs complain of does not approach the severity
required to constitute harassment. 


“With respect to the pervasiveness
of harassment, courts have held an employee generally cannot recover for
harassment that is occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather, the
employee must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or
a generalized nature. [Citations.] That is, when the harassing conduct is not
severe in the extreme, more than a few isolated incidents must have occurred to
prove a claim based on working conditions.” (Lyle, supra, 38 Cal.4th at
pp. 283–284.)  Here, the isolated
interactions do not evince pervasive harassment.  And in the case of asking Plaintiff not to
quote scripture in business emails, the directive was appropriate.


            The motion for summary adjudication of Issue No. 2 is granted. 
 
Third Cause of Action for
Retaliation based on FEHA (Issue No. 3)
 
            Defendants also move for summary adjudication against plaintiffs’
third cause of action for retaliation for making complaints of religious
discrimination and/or harassment. Plaintiffs’ claims fail as a matter of law
because the undisputed facts show: (1) Plaintiffs cannot establish a causal
connection between their alleged protected conduct and any adverse employment
action; (2) Robbins Brothers had legitimate, non-retaliatory reasons for its
actions; and (3) Plaintiffs cannot produce any substantial, responsive,
admissible evidence that Robbins Brothers’ legitimate, nonretaliatory reasons
for its actions were pretextual or motivated by retaliatory animus. (DSS 1-59.)
 
            FEHA states that an employer may not “discharge, expel, or
otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has opposed any
practices forbidden under” FEHA. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h).) “Employees
may establish a prima facie case of unlawful retaliation by showing that (1)
they engaged in activities protected by the FEHA, (2) their employers
subsequently took adverse employment action against them, and (3) there was a
causal connection between the protected activity and the adverse employment
action.” (Miller v. Department of Corrections (2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 472;
accord, Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042; see Mamou
v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713-715.) 
 
Like claims for discrimination,
retaliation claims based on FEHA are subject to the McDonnell Douglas
burden-shifting analysis. (Loggins v. Kaiser Permanente Internat. (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1108-1109.)
 
Thus, for the same reasons the
Court granted the motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action,
the third cause of action fails. Defendants proffered a legitimate,
nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action that Plaintiffs alleged
in their complaint—the decision to terminate Plaintiffs’ employment.
 
Moreover, the evidence shows that after
Plaintiffs made their internal complaints, they were promoted and received pay
raises. (UMF 25, 27.) Plaintiffs were not terminated until over two years
later, when Defendants reduced their workforce by 11% in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic. (DSS 35-36.)  Plaintiffs
fail to show they were dismissed in retaliation for their complaints of
religious discrimination and harassment.
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of Issue No. 3 is granted. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Retaliation pursuant to Labor Code section 1102.5 (Issue No. 4):
 
Defendant moves for summary education
to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for retaliation for reporting violations
of law in violation of Labor Code sections 1102.5 and 1102.6 on the grounds
that (1) Plaintiffs did not engage in conduct protected under Labor Code sections
1102.5 and 1102.6; (2) Plaintiffs’ alleged protected conduct was not a
contributing factor to any adverse employment action; (3) Defendants had
legitimate, non-retaliatory reasons for its actions which would have occurred
regardless of any protected conduct by Plaintiffs; and (4) Plaintiffs cannot
produce any admissible evidence that Defendants legitimate, non-retaliatory
reasons for its actions were pretextual or motivated by retaliatory animus.
 
Labor Code section 1102.5 provides
that “[a]n employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not
retaliate against an employee for disclosing information, or because the
employer believes that the employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a
government or law enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the
employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or
correct the violation or noncompliance . . . if the employee has reasonable
cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal
statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal
rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is part of
the employee's job duties.” (Labor Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).)
 
To establish a prima facie case of
retaliation under section 1102.5(b), a plaintiff “ ‘must show (1) she
engaged in a protected activity, (2) her employer subjected her to an adverse
employment action, and (3) there is a causal link between the two.’ ” (McVeigh
v. Recology San Francisco (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 443, 468.) An employee
engages in protected activity under section 1102.5, subdivision (b), when
he or she discloses to a governmental agency or employer reasonably based
suspicion of illegal activity. (McVeigh, supra, at p. 469; Mueller
v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 809, 821-822 [Section
1102.5(b) “requires that to come within its provisions, the activity disclosed
by an employee must violate a federal or state law, rule or regulation.
[Citation.]”].) 
 
Labor Code section 1102.6 provides
the framework for evaluating a claim of whistleblower retaliation under section
1102.5: “Once an employee-whistleblower establishes by a preponderance of the
evidence that retaliation was a contributing factor in the employee’s
termination, demotion, or other adverse action, the employer bears the burden
of demonstrating by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the
same action ‘for legitimate, independent reasons.’” (Lawson v. PPG
Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 707.) Our Supreme Court
explained that burden shifting under section 1102.6 is different than under
FEHA. Unlike the FEHA claim, “[u]nder section 1102.6, a plaintiff does not need
to show that the employer’s nonretaliatory reason was pretextual. Even if the
employer had a genuine, nonretaliatory reason for its adverse action, the
plaintiff still carries the burden assigned by statute if it is shown that the
employer also had at least one retaliatory reason that was a contributing
factor in the action.” (Id. at p. 716.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ whistleblower
retaliation claim is premised on two alleged fraudulent schemes that they
purportedly uncovered and disclosed: (1) “fake sales” fraud wherein employees
were allegedly ringing up fake sales to meet their sales quotas and boost their
commissions; and (2) “fake paystubs” fraud wherein fake paystubs or paychecks
were created so that credit would be extended to customers who otherwise would
not qualify. (FAC ¶¶ 12-17.)
 
In moving for summary adjudication,
Defendants first argue that evidence does not show Plaintiffs engaged in any
protected activity because Pimental was already aware of alleged illegal
activity that Plaintiffs reported. 
 
However, as a matter of law,
Pimental’s knowledge of this alleged illegal activity does not negate
Plaintiffs’ engagement in the protected activity of reporting this illegal
conduct. (People ex rel. Garcia-Brower v. Kolla's, Inc. (2023) 14
Cal.5th 719 [explaining that protected disclosures include information that was
already known to the employer or government agency to which it was disclosed].)

 
Next, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff Quintero did not personally report the “fake sales” issue to Pimental
and, learned of the “fake paystub” fraud from Plaintiff and Pimental. (DSS 64,
73-74.) Thus, Defendants argue, Plaintiff Quintero did not engage in any
protected activity. (DSS 64.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs concede
that Quintero did not personally report either of the fraudulent schemes to Pimental,
but that Quintero was involved in both investigations through his work in the
Asset Protection Department. (PMF 183, 163.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ evidence is sufficient
to raise a triable issue of material fact regarding Quintero’s involvement in
participating in the protected activity. 
 
Finally, Defendants argue there
was no causal connection between the protected activity and the adverse
employment action because they had a legitimate, non-whistleblowing reason for Plaintiffs’
termination. (DSS 31-41.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs submit
evidence that suggest Defendants viewed Plaintiffs’ discovery and investigation
of illegal activity with hostility. 
 
With respect to the causal
connection element, an employee need not show that retaliation was the “ ‘but
for’ cause of the employment decision” but must show that retaliation was at
least a “substantial motivating factor” for the decision. (Harris v. City of
Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 230, 232.) “ ‘ “The causal link may be
established by an inference derived from circumstantial evidence, ‘such as the
employer's knowledge that the [employee] engaged in protected activities and
the proximity in time between the protected action and allegedly retaliatory
employment decision.’ ” [Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘Essential to a causal link is
evidence that the employer was aware that the plaintiff had engaged in the
protected activity.’ [Citation.]” (Morgan v. Regents of University of
California (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69–70.) A causal connection can also
be demonstrated by a “sudden change of position” toward an employee after a
disclosure is made. (Mokler v. County of Orange (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
121, 141, disapproved of on another ground by Lawson, supra, 12 Cal.5th
703.)
 
In June 2019, Plaintiffs
investigated fake sales fraud as part of their asset protection duties. (PMF
177, 178.) After interviewing employees of the Costa Mesa store, Plaintiffs
discovered that the manager and other employees were charging customers’ credit
cards for fake sales prior to the end of the month to earn commissions and
bonuses, and then canceling the transactions after receiving bonuses and
commissions. (PMF 179, 180, 186.) Plaintiffs also learned that Costa Mesa
employees were hiding merchandise to carry out this scheme and circumvent
Robbins Brothers’ revenue recognition rules. (PMF 188, 189.)
 
After Pimental tried to prevent
Plaintiffs from recording the interviews, Plaintiffs met with Pimental and
Friedant to complain and recommended that Defendants notify affected customers
and banks. (PMF 183.) Rather than address the security concerns, Friedant became
“upset” with Plaintiff and “screamed” that Plaintiffs should not be recording
the interviews. (PMF 185.)
 
Plaintiffs’ evidence suggests that
Defendants undertook no efforts to notify third-party credit provider Synchrony
that employees were charging customers for merchandise without customers’
consent. (PMF 194, 199, 203, 208–210.)
 
In early 2020, Villanueva learned
of another fraudulent practice at Robbins Brothers: employees using fake
paystubs to help customers access third-party credit to purchase jewelry. (PMF
193–196.) On February 25, 2020, Plaintiffs complained to Pimental that he was
excluding them from asset protection duties, including the investigation into
paystub fraud. (PMF 163.) Villanueva raised the same concerns to Pimental again
in March 2020, conveying that Villanueva felt he was being pushed out of the
company; Pimental responded with silence. (PMF 164, 165, 197, 198.)
 
Plaintiffs’ evidence suggests that
Defendants engaged in acts intended to hinder Plaintiffs’ investigation and instead
prioritized actions to keep the fraudulent conduct “quiet.” (PMF 177-211, 213) Thus,
the evidence is sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact in
dispute. (See Killgore v. SpecPro Pro. Servs., LLC (2022) 51 F.4th 973,
980–81, 988 [holding that plaintiff had created factual dispute regarding
whether his complaint was a contributing factor in his termination where
plaintiff was terminated within a month or two of making the complaint].) 
 
            Here, given the different standard applicable to Section 1102.5
claims as compared to a FEHA retaliation claim, the temporal proximity to
between Plaintiff engaging in protected activity and the adverse employment
action, and Defendants’ conduct, which can be characterized as hostility to Plaintiff’s
involvement in the investigation – Plaintiffs have raised a triable issue of
material fact on the issue of a causal connection. 
 
            The motion for summary adjudication of Issue No. 4 is denied.  
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination (Issue No. 5): 
 
Defendants also move for summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action for wrongful termination because the
undisputed facts show Plaintiffs cannot establish a violation of the underlying
statutes upon which this claim is based.
 
As a statutory cause of action, a
claim for retaliation in violation of section 1102.5(b) is treated by the
courts as a stand-alone theory of recovery distinct from a common law Tameny
claim. “To support a common law wrongful discharge claim, the public policy
‘must be: (1) delineated in either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2)
“public” in the sense that it “inures to the benefit of the public” rather than
serving merely the interests of the individual; (3) well established at the
time of the discharge; and (4) substantial and fundamental.’ ” (Haney v.
Aramark Uniform Services, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 623, 642.) 
 
Where an employer terminates an
employee who seeks to further such public policy “by responsibly reporting
suspicions of illegal conduct to the employer,” a cause of action for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy is supported. (Collier v. Superior
Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1117, 1127; accord, Ferrick v. Santa Clara
University (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1345; cf. McVeigh v. Recology
San Francisco, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at 463-464 [California False Claims
Act protects whistleblowers who report possible false claims based on
reasonable suspicions].)

            Here, Plaintiffs’ Labor Code
claims provide the factual and legal basis for Plaintiffs’ claims of wrongful
termination in violation of public policy. As explained above, Plaintiffs have
created a genuine factual dispute on this claim, and, therefore, Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ wrongful termination claim must
also be denied.
 
The motion for summary
adjudication of Issue No. 5 is denied. 
 
Request for Punitive Damages
(Issue No. 6):
 
Finally, Defendants move for
summary adjudication of the request for punitive damages because Plaintiffs
cannot establish by clear and convincing evidence that any officer, director,
or managing agent of Robbins Brothers engaged in oppression, fraud, or malice
towards Plaintiffs or authorized or ratified such conduct.
 
            As a preliminary matter, there can be no punitive damages arising
from the FEHA claims, as result of the Court’s ruling on summary adjudication.
However, punitive damages are also available for a violation of Labor Code
section 1102.5. (Mathews v. Happy Valley Conference Center, Inc. (2019)
43 Cal.App.5th 236, 268.)
 
“[S]ummary judgment ‘on the issue
of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the
plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or
oppression.’” (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Ct. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 757, 762 [citation omitted].) 
 
Punitive damages are recoverable
where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or
implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than the mere commission of a tort
is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or
wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not necessary for a showing
of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so
reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925) 71 Cal. App.
671, 682.) 
 
In moving for summary
adjudication, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not submitted any evidence,
let alone clear and convincing evidence, to establish that any officer,
director, or managing agent of Robbins Brothers engaged in oppression, fraud,
or malice.
 
Plaintiffs argue that a reasonable
jury could find clear and convincing evidence of malice, fraud, or oppression. In
support, Plaintiffs point to their exclusion from the investigation into fake
paystub fraud and the fake sales fraud. (PMF 163, 183.) This evidence does nothing
more than raise an inference of a causal connection between the protected activity
and the adverse employment action. The evidence does not demonstrate malice,
fraud, or oppression arising from the Labor Code retaliation claim.
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of Issue No. 6 is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for summary
judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication is granted as to Issues
Nos. 1-3, and 6, and denied as to Issues Nos. 4 and 5. 
 


