

Hearing Date:              February
21, 2024
Case Name:                 Song
v. Wall  
Case No.:                    22STCV01714
Motion:                       Motion
to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment 
Moving Party:             Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie
Wall

Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs
Chaehoon Song and Booyean Song

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Vacate and Set Aside Default is granted.  Defendants’ counsel shall pay to Plaintiffs
$6,500 in attorney’s fees.

             
This is a breach of contract and fraud action in
which landlord Plaintiffs Chaehoon
Song and Booyean Song
(Plaintiffs) allege that tenant Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie Wall (Defendants)
improperly used the real property located at 1452 and
1454 E. 23rd Street, Los Angeles, CA (Property) as transitional
housing and failed to pay rent. 
After granting a motion for terminating sanctions,
this Court struck all Defendants’ Answers and entered default on January 5,
2023. 
Thereafter, Plaintiffs moved for entry of default
judgment. Following three attempts, the Court entered default judgment on July
14, 2023. 
On January 10, 2024,
Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie
Wall moved
to set aside the entry of default judgment. Plaintiffs opposed the motion. No
reply was filed.
 
The motion to set
aside and vacate the entry of default and default judgment is granted.  Defendants’ counsel is ordered to pay to Plaintiffs
attorneys’ fees in the amount of $6,500.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)¿¿
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her attorney.¿¿Under
the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,”¿the court shall
vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.” ’ [Citation.]
Applications seeking relief under the mandatory provision of section 473 must
be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ The mandatory provision¿further
adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault
[the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees
and costs¿to opposing counsel or parties.’¿” 
(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
Analysis
 
         Defendants seek relief
pursuant to the mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b), and based on the Court’s inherent equitable powers.
 
            The purpose of this mandatory relief provision is to alleviate the
hardship on parties who lose their day in court due to an inexcusable failure
to act by their attorneys. (Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting
Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 257.) More recently, the Court of
Appeal has stated the purpose was to relieve the innocent client of the burden
of the attorney's fault, to impose the burden on the erring attorney, and to
avoid precipitating more litigation in the form of malpractice suits. (SJP
Limited Partnership v. City of Los Angeles (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 511,
516.)
            However, the mandatory provision applies in limited circumstances.
The provision applies to the entry of default judgment here.
            Under the
mandatory relief provision, upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,” the trial court must vacate any “resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered....” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
“The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be
granted in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary
provision, and includes ‘inexcusable’ neglect. But the range of adverse
litigation results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory
relief only extends to vacating a default which will result in the entry
of a default judgment, a default judgment, or an entered dismissal.” (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 616 [italics
in original].)
Here, on December 5, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed a motion for terminating sanctions after Defendants failed to respond to
discovery requests following a court order compelling compliance. On January 4,
2023, Defendants submitted an untimely opposition that failed to attach a declaration
indicating compliance with the discovery court order. Based on the moving
papers and the deficient opposition, the Court granted the motion for
terminating sanctions. 
            To the extent that a discovery sanction prescribes
a “default” or “dismissal,” at least two courts have found the mandatory
provision does apply. (Matera v. McLeod (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 44, 65–66
[sanction striking the answer and entry of a default qualified for mandatory
relief from default judgment]; Rodriguez v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
715, 725–726 [sanction striking the complaint and entering a dismissal
qualified for mandatory relief].)
 
            Finding
that the mandatory provision applies to the facts here, the Court will turn to Plaintiffs’
next argument that contends the motion to set aside is untimely. 
 
            “This
six-month time limitation is jurisdictional; the court has no power to grant
relief under section 473 once the time has lapsed.” (Austin v. Los Angeles
Unified School District (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 928.) 
 
With respect to discretionary
relief under Section 473, subdivision (b), the time begins to run when the
order or proceeding in question “was taken.” For purposes of this provision, a
default is considered its own proceeding—which means a request to set aside a
default must be made within six months of its entry. (See e.g., Pulte Homes
Corp. v. Williams Mechanical, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, 273 [holding
that the trial court “could not set aside the default” under section 473(b)
where the motion “was filed less than six months after entry of default
judgment, but more than six months after entry of default”]; Rappleyea, supra,
8 Cal.4th at p. 980 [“more than six months had elapsed from the entry of
default, and hence relief under section 473 was unavailable”].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs note that default was entered against Defendants on January 5, 2023.
(1/5/2023 Minute Order, p. 2.) Defendants did not file their motion to set
aside until January 10, 2024 – one year and five days later. Thus, this Court
is without power to grant discretionary relief from the entry of default
under section 473, subdivision (b). (Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 294, 297 [“Unless the default itself is vacated, little is gained
by vacating the default judgment.”].)
 
            However,
unlike the discretionary relief provision, the mandatory relief provision requires
a court to vacate a default and any resulting default judgment, if a motion or
application for relief from the default judgment (1) is filed “no more than six
months after entry of judgment,” (2) is “in proper form,”[1]
and (3) is accompanied by an attorney's affidavit of fault, unless the court
finds that the default judgment or dismissal was not caused by the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).) That is, the statute provides that the application for mandatory relief
must be “ ‘made no more than six months after entry of judgment.’”
 
            Here,
as noted above, the motion to set aside was filed on January 10, 2024, which
was within six months of the entry of default judgment on July 14, 2023. Therefore,
the motion to set aside based on the mandatory relief provision was timely. (Sugasawara,
supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p. 297; see also Edmon et al., Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2019) ¶ 5:305.1 [“The
wording of the statute makes clear that the 6-month period runs from entry of
the default judgment, not the original default. [¶] A motion made within that
period is timely although the attorney neglect predated the entry of
default”]; Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civil Proceedings After Trial (CJER 2018)
Relief from Default and Default Judgment, § 1.12 [“A motion for mandatory
relief is timely, even though more than six months have passed since entry of
the default, as long as it is filed within six months after entry of the
judgment”].)
 
            Finally,
Plaintiffs argue that the moving papers do not demonstrate excusable neglect.
As noted above, under the mandatory provision, “[t]he range of attorney conduct
for which relief can be granted in the mandatory provision is broader than that
in the discretionary provision, and includes ‘inexcusable’ neglect.” (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc., supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at 616.) Thus,
Defendants’ counsel was not required to show excusable neglect, only
that his neglect caused the entry of default and subsequent default
judgment. 


            Here, Defendants’ counsel’s evidence
demonstrates that his neglect resulted in the default. 
 
On December
5, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a motion for terminating sanctions based on
Defendants’ failure to comply with the Court’s November 3, 2022 order requiring
Defendants to provide “code
compliant responses to plaintiff, without objections, by 11/28/2022.” The
hearing was set for January 5, 2023. An untimely opposition was filed on
January 4, 2023. 
 
In moving
for relief on this motion to set aside, Defendants’ counsel now submits a declaration
stating that “leading up to the hearing on terminating sanctions” his “office
sent complete responses of defendants [sic] discovery to Plaintiffs [sic]
counsel by email.” (Saunders Decl., ¶ 3.) As noted, in opposing terminating
sanctions, Defendants’ counsel failed to state when responses were served, a
failure repeated in the Saunders declaration here. It appears, however, that
the late discovery responses were served on November 30, 2022. (Saunders Decl.,
Ex. C.) 
 
            As a result of Defendants’ counsel’s inexcusable neglect,
he failed to produce evidence showing compliance (albeit untimely compliance)
with the court’s order at the time of the hearing on the motion for terminating
sanctions. This deficient opposition resulted in the Court granting the motion for
terminating sanctions. That is, had such compliance been shown at the time of the
hearing, the Court would have entered a lesser sanction than the request for
terminating sanctions. Thus, Defendants’ counsel’s evidence shows his neglect that
permits the Court to grant relief under the mandatory provision of
section 473, subdivision (b).
 
            As a result of the Court’s findings
on this motion, Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 is denied.[2]

 
However, under
the statute, Plaintiffs are entitled to “reasonable compensatory legal fees and
costs.” (Code Civ. Proc., ¶ 473, subd. (d).) The Court will award fees in the
reduced amount of $6,500, which reflects reasonable compensatory legal fees and
costs incurred as a result of Defendants’ counsel’s neglect. (Gelman Decl., ¶¶
8-9.)
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion to set aside the entry of
default and default judgment is granted. Defendants’ counsel, Saunders &
Associates, APC, are ordered to pay attorney fees and costs, in the sum of $6,500.00,
due payable to Plaintiffs on or before March 1, 2024.  At the hearing, the Court will set a status
conference.


