

 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 6, 2024, Petitioner Sherwood Mobile Home Park (“Plaintiff”
or “Petitioner”) filed the Petition for Judicial Declaration of Abandonment of
Mobile Home against Lawrence F. Fitzgerald and DOES 1 through 10 (collectively,
“Defendants or Respondents”). 
 
On or about April 1, 2024, Petitioner caused to be posted a
Thirty (30) Day Notice of Belief of Abandonment on the subject mobilehome and
sent the certified mail pursuant to Civil Code Section 798.61(b). (Petition ¶
5(c); First Amended Petition (“1AP”) ¶ 5(c).)
 
More than thirty
(30) days elapsed since this Notice was posted and mailed, and none of the
Respondents, nor any other person claiming an interest in said mobilehome paid
to Petitioner the amounts owed or arranged to reclaim the subject mobilehome.
(Johnson Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
As of January
2024, Respondent has not paid rent or storage costs on the premises. (Johnson
Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) The monthly storage costs owed from February 1, 2024 through
August 1, 2024 are $3,145.57 ($473.51 per month). (Johnson Decl. ¶ 9.)
Petitioner also requests attorney’s fees and costs. (Petition ¶¶ 5-6; 1AP ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
On
September 9, 2024, this Court found that Plaintiff failed to show by a
preponderance of evidence that the criteria for an abandoned mobilehome has
been satisfied. 
 
The Court
was satisfied that Plaintiff’s Petition met the following statutory criteria:
1)     
The Petition included
a Title Search showing Respondent as the registered owner;
2)     
Plaintiff filed the
Thirty (30) Day Notice of Abandoned Mobile Home; and
3)     
Plaintiff and
presented the ledger balance report showing unpaid amounts. 
However,
the Court observed that Plaintiff’s Petition did not meet the statutory
requirements based on the following: 
1)     
Plaintiff failed to
provide the total amount of judgment sought for unpaid rent;
2)     
Plaintiff did not
declare in the petition whether the management intended to sell the contents of
the abandoned mobilehome before its disposal;
3)     
Plaintiff failed to
declare in the petition that the management will dispose of the abandoned
mobilehome, and therefore will not seek a tax clearance certificate as set
forth in Section 5832 of the Revenue and Taxation Code consistent with the
requirements of § 789.61(f); and
4)     
Plaintiff failed to
declare in the petition that the management intends to file a notice of
disposal with the Department of Housing and Community Development and complete
the disposal process consistent with the requirements of § 789.61(f).
 
This
Court continued Plaintiff’s Petition for a Judicial Declaration of Abandonment
of Mobile Home to October 9, 2024, to allow Petitioner to file a revised
Petition.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioner
petitions the court to enter a judgment of abandonment under California Civil
Code §798.61. This Petition is made under California Civil Code §798.61, on the
grounds that Lawrence F. Fitzgerald Jr. who on information and belief is the
registered owner of the mobilehome occupying space 72 at the mobilehome park at
3753 East Avenue I Lancaster, California 93535, has abandoned that home.
Plaintiff seeks a judgment for unpaid rent from January 2024. Plaintiff also
seeks judgment allowing recovery for storage charges from February 1, 2024,
through August 1, 2024; for costs of suit; and for reasonable attorney fees.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None. 
 
REPLY
 
            None.
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Petition
for Judgment of Abandonment of Mobile Home
A.               
Legal Standard
California Civil Code §798.61 states: 
(a)(1) As
used in this section, “abandoned mobilehome” means a mobilehome about which all
of the following are true: 
(A) It is located in a mobilehome park on a site for
which no rent has been paid to the management for the preceding 60 days. 
(B) It is unoccupied. 
(C) A reasonable person would believe it to be abandoned.
(D) It is not permanently affixed to the land . . . 
(b) After
determining a mobilehome in a mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome,
the management shall post a notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome
for not less than 30 days, and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known
address and to any known registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and
to any known holder of a security interest in the abandoned mobilehome. This
notice shall be mailed by registered or certified mail with a return receipt
requested. 
 
(c)(1) Thirty
or more days following posting pursuant to subdivision (b), the management may
file a petition in the superior court in the county in which the mobilehome
park is located, for a judicial declaration of abandonment of the mobilehome. A
proceeding under this subdivision is a limited civil case. Copies of the
petition shall be served upon the homeowner, any known registered owner, and
any known person having a lien or security interest of record in the mobilehome
by posting a copy on the mobilehome and mailing copies to those persons at
their last known addresses by registered or certified mail with a return
receipt requested in the United States mail, postage prepaid.
 
(2) To
dispose of an abandoned mobilehome pursuant to subdivision (f), the management
shall also do all of the following: 
(A) Declare in the petition that the management will
dispose of the abandoned mobilehome, and therefore will not seek a tax
clearance certificate as set forth in Section 5832 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code. 
(B) Declare in the petition whether the management
intends to sell the contents of the abandoned mobilehome before its disposal. 
(C) Notify the county tax collector in the county in
which the mobilehome park is located of the declaration that management will
dispose of the abandoned mobilehome by sending a copy of the petition by first
class mail. 
(D) Declare in the petition that management intends to
file a notice of disposal with the Department of Housing and Community
Development and complete the disposal process consistent with the requirements
of subdivision (f). 
 
(d)(1)
Hearing on the petition shall be given precedence over other matters on the
court's calendar. 
 
(2) If, at
the hearing, the petitioner shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the
criteria for an abandoned mobilehome has been satisfied and no party
establishes an interest therein at the hearing and tenders all past due rent
and other charges, the court shall enter a judgment of abandonment, determine
the amount of charges to which the petitioner is entitled, and award attorney's
fees and costs to the petitioner. For purposes of this subdivision, an interest
in the mobilehome shall be established by evidence of a right to possession of
the mobilehome or a security or ownership interest in the mobilehome. 
 
(3) A default
may be entered by the court clerk upon request of the petitioner, and a default
judgment shall be thereupon entered, if no responsive pleading is filed within
15 days after service of the petition by mail.” 
 
(California
Civil Code § 789.61)
 
 
1.      Merits
 
Here, Petitioner has successfully shown by a
preponderance of evidence that the criteria for an abandoned mobilehome has
been satisfied. As the Court’s prior order states, Petitioner has previously
shown that (1) Respondent is the registered
owner, through an included a Title Search (Johnson Decl. Ex. 2); (2) Plaintiff
filed the Thirty (30) Day Notice of Abandoned Mobile Home dated April 1, 2024 (Id.
at ¶ 6; Ex. 1); and (3) Plaintiff presented the ledger balance report showing
the unpaid amounts (Ibid; Ex. 4).
 
Furthermore, as the Court’s prior Order required,
Plaintiff’s petition provides the total amount of judgment sought for unpaid
rent, or monthly storage costs, in $3,1457.57. (1AP, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s petition
also declares that the management intends to sell the contents of the abandoned
mobilehome and does not intend to dispose of it. (Id., at ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s petition also states that,
within 10 days following a judgment of abandonment, the management will enter
the mobilehome and complete an inventory of the contents and submit the
inventory to court. (Ibid; Civil Code § 789.61(e).) Additionally,
Plaintiff’s petition states that the mobilehome and its contents, if any, will
be sold at a public sale. (Ibid.) Finally, the Plaintiff’s petition
declares that appropriate notice will be provided to the county tax collector
by requiring the purchaser who remains in the community to pay current all past
due taxes owed to the county and State. (Id. at ¶ 8; Civil Code § 789.61(e).)
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Therefore, Plaintiff’s Petition
for Judicial Declaration of Abandonment of Mobile Home is GRANTED. 
 
(Proposed) “Judgment for
Abandonment “ will be signed and filed this date.
 
Moving party is to give notice of
ruling. 