

 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            In March 2018, Plaintiff DealerSync,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) and Defendant US Auto Leasing, Inc. d/b/a Prestige Auto Sales
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-10 entered into a software license agreement, wherein Plaintiff
agreed to license proprietary dealership management software products for the
“Premier” package to Defendant. (Compl., ¶ 9.) In February 2021, Plaintiff and Defendant entered
into a software license agreement (“Agreement”), wherein Plaintiff agreed to “license
proprietary dealership management software products for 12 months for the ‘Elite’
Package, which required Defendant to pay $1,699 per month.”  (Compl., ¶ 9.)  Defendant renewed
the Agreement for an
additional year but cancelled the Agreement six months later.  (Compl., ¶¶ 11-13.) Plaintiff provided its services
pursuant to the Agreement, and Defendant failed to pay the full balance owed on
the Agreement. (Compl., ¶¶ 10-17.)
 
On September
13, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against Defendant and Does 1-10 alleging
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Open Book Account, (3) Account Stated, and (4)
Goods and Services Rendered. Plaintiff filed proof of service indicating the
summons and complaint were served by personal service on Defendant’s registered
agent for service of process, “Edward Paul Hiskall at 2900 Medinah Way, Modesto
CA 95355.” 
 
            Defendant
failed to file an Answer, and the Court entered default against Defendant on
February 29, 2024.  
 
            On May 3, 2024, the Court entered a
default judgment against Defendant. However, it appears the default judgment
was not served upon Defendant until May 31, 2024. (5/31 Notice of Entry of
Judgment, p. 5.) 
 
            On August 6, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default and Default Judgment (the
“Motion”) on the grounds of mistake and/or extrinsic mistake. Defendant
attached a declaration from its President who admitted he made the mistake, an
attorney declaration, and an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
            On
September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition.
 
            On
September 30, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply.  
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
moves to set aside the entry of default and default judgment on the grounds of mistake
and/or extrinsic mistake pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b).  Specifically, Defendant contends
it failed to timely respond to Plaintiff’s complaint because its President
Nofan Jamaleddin mistakenly believed this case was another case – namely, Bolton
v. US Auto Leasing, Inc., et al., Case No. CV-23-001284 in Stanislaus
County Superior Court – also filed against Defendant. (Motion, ¶ 1, Exh. A, Jamaleddin Decl., ¶ 3.)  As the subject matter of the lawsuit regarded
advertising costs for a business in Stanislaus County, Defendant mistook the
matter for Bolton, which was litigated in Stanislaus County, and “failed
to recognize the issue until the Judgment was served upon it.”  (Motion, p. 2.)  Due to this mistake, Defendant believed the documents
in this matter were already sent to Defendant’s counsel and an Answer did not
need to be filed. (Motion, ¶
1, Exh. A, Jamaleddin Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff contends Defendant failed to show it is entitled to
equitable relief because neither the Motion nor accompanying declarations
provide reasoning for why Defendants believe they have a meritorious defense.  Further, Plaintiff contends Defendant’s Motion
should be denied because it does not appear Defendant exercised due diligence
in getting the judgment set aside. (Opposition, pp. 4-5.) Finally, Plaintiff
argues that in the event the Court grants Defendant’s Motion, the Court should
direct Defendant to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs totaling
$1,000 to Plaintiff and its counsel, Madison Law, APC. (Opposition, p. 6.) 
 
REPLY
 
            In Reply,
Defendant rejects Plaintiff’s arguments in their entirety and alleges Plaintiff
argues “two completely conflicting positions.” (Reply, p. 1.) Defendant further
contends this is an “honest mistake by the moving [D]efendant,” and Defendant
acted with diligence by notifying defense counsel of his mistake as soon as he
became aware of it. (Reply p. 2.) Finally, Defendant concedes to pay
Plaintiff’s request for costs up to $1,000. (Reply, p. 2.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                  
Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default and Default Judgment
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
The court has broad discretion to
vacate the entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal where the moving
party timely establishes a proper ground for relief.  (Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)  Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) contains two
distinct provisions for relief from default.  The first provision is
discretionary and broad in scope, providing: “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).) 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Section 473, subdivision (b)
is to promote the determination of actions on their merits.  (Even Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc.
v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 838-839.)  “Apart
from any statute, courts have the inherent authority to vacate a default and
default judgment on equitable grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic
mistake.” (Bae v. T.D. Service Co. of Arizona (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 89, 97.)  A motion seeking such equitable relief “‘may be brought
on such ground even though the statutory period [for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)] has run.’ [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
Unlike motions to vacate under section 473, where any doubts in applying
section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief,
“[w]hen a default judgment has been obtained, equitable relief
may be given only in exceptional circumstances.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994)
8 Cal.4th 975, 981 (“Rappleyea”).) 
 
Notably, in limited civil cases,
the grounds for equitable relief are extended to include “inadvertence or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 86.) 
 
To obtain equitable relief for
extrinsic mistake or fraud, the defaulting party must demonstrate: (1) a
meritorious defense; (2) a satisfactory excuse for not defending
the original action; and (3) diligence in seeking to set aside the default
once the default was discovered. (Rappleyea, supra, 8
Cal.4th at p. 884.) ¿
 
II.               
Discussion 
 
A.    Timeliness
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes Defendant’s Motion was
filed on August 6, 2024, which is less than six months after the entry of
default on February 29, 2024.
 
 Here, Defendant appears to raise a claim for
relief due to mistake by a party, which is a form of discretionary relief that requires
application for relief from default or default judgment to be filed no later
than six months from the time of entry of default. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(b).) While Defendant’s attorney, Jakrun Sodhi, submitted a declaration in
support of the Motion, Sodhi does not appear to admit any mistake besides that
of Defendant. (Sodhi Decl.)
 
Since Defendant filed the Motion within six months from
the entry of default, Defendant’s Motion is thus timely as it pertains to a
request for discretionary relief from default or default judgment. 
 
As there is no six-month time limit for moving to set
aside a default and default judgment based on extrinsic mistake or fraud,
Defendant’s Motion is also timely as it pertains to this request as well. 
 
B.     Discretionary Relief
 
While Plaintiff appears to have
interpreted the Motion to solely request equitable relief for extrinsic mistake,
the Court notes Defendant also cites to and makes a request regarding
discretionary statutory relief.  (Motion,
¶¶ 3-4.) Given the Court has already determined the Motion was timely filed, the
Court will address the merits of a claim for discretionary relief by way of
party mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b). 
 
Here, the Court finds there is
sufficient evidence to warrant setting aside the default judgment against
Defendant. Indeed, Defendant submitted evidence that its President, Nofan
Jamaleddin, admits: “There were two cases I was served on or around the same
time.  I mistakenly thought the documents
on this instant matter were sent to my counsel to defend my case.
Unfortunately, the documents that were sent to my counsel were the documents
for the [Bolton case] not for this instant case. At no point during this
time did I realize that an Answer needed to be filed.”  (Motion, ¶ 1, Exh. A, Jamaleddin Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) 
Defendant also submitted evidence that Defendant’s attorney,
Jakrun Sodhi, confirms his office represented Defendant in the Bolton
matter, which was litigated.  (Sodhi
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
            The
Court finds there is sufficient evidence to suggest Defendant’s lack of
response to the Complaint (or any papers received in this matter thereafter) was
due to his continuous mistaken belief of a material fact – namely, the instant case
was in all respects a completely different case. (See Hopkins & Carley
v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410 [defendant’s burden to
demonstrate “that due to some mistake, either of fact or of law, of himself or
of his counsel, or through some inadvertence, surprise or neglect which may
properly considered excusable, the judgment or order from which he seeks relief
should be reverse”] (emphasis in original).) 

 
Accordingly, the
Court finds the entry of default was caused by Defendant’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. And, having considered the moving papers
and evidence, the Court finds this Motion to set aside default and default
judgment was timely, and the requisite proposed responsive pleading (Answer) was
filed. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(b).)  
 
C.   
Equitable Relief 
 
Given this Court’s
finding on discretionary relief, the Court declines to address Defendant’s
claim for equitable relief. However, the Court notes Defendant failed to put
forth cognizable arguments as to the elements for extrinsic mistake in the
Motion, and only cursorily addressed the elements in its Reply brief.
 
D.    Fees and Costs
 
“Whenever the court grants relief from a default, default
judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section, the
court may do any of the following:
 
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars
($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant
other relief as is appropriate.”
 
(Code of Civ.
Proc., § 473(c).) 
 
Plaintiff requests the Court to direct Defendant
to pay a penalty of $1,000 to Plaintiff and its counsel, Madison Law, APC, for reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs. (Opposition, p. 6.) Defendant agrees to
pay this request should the Court order. (Reply, p. 2.) 
 
While the Court may impose a
penalty of up to $1,000 in sanctions, as noted in the cited authority above,
the award is discretionary. Here, the circumstances of the reasonable mistake
by Defendant’s President, Nofan Jamaleddin, do not seem to warrant a sanctions
penalty against Defendant. Moreover, to the extent Plaintiff seeks a sanctions
award to compensate for costs it incurred as a result of Defendant’s mistake,
the requests for either $1,000 or $789.95 are not sufficiently supported. (Opp.,
Sirey Decl., ¶9.)  
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request. 
            
III.            
Conclusion 
            
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the Entry of
Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
The default
entered on February 29, 2024, and Default Judgment entered on May 3, 2024, are
HEREBY SET ASIDE AND VACATED.  Defendant
is ordered to file its proposed answer within ten (10) days of this Court’s order.

 
The Court sets trial in this action for October 7, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Discovery
and all other trial related deadlines are to comport with the new trial date.
Parties must comply
with the trial requirements as set forth in the court's Third Amended Standing
Order for Limited Civil Cases (effective February 24, 2020). 
All trial documents
are to be electronically filed at least ten (10) days prior to the trial date. 
Parties should be
prepared to submit a JOINT Trial Readiness Binder / Exhibit Binder, and to
personally appear on the date of trial.
 
Plaintiff’s Request
for Defendant to pay a penalty for compensatory legal fees and costs is DENIED.
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice of ruling. 