

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 22, 2024, Petitioner Quality Loan Service Corp.
(“Petitioner”) commenced this petition regarding unresolved claims and deposit
of undistributed surplus proceeds of trustee’s sale. 
 
On March 1, 2024, Petitioner filed an unopposed motion to
deposit surplus funds and to discharge petitioner.
 
On May 9, 2024,
the Court heard Petitioner’s motion, but found it did not meet the requirements
of Civil Code § 2924j because Petitioner failed to (1) include the date of sale
of the property, (2) include a description of the property, (3) list the names
and addresses of all person sent notice, (4) provide an affirmative statement
of due diligence, (5) provide the amount of surplus to be deposited under Civil
Code § 2924j(c), (6) provide a copy of the trustee’s sale guarantee or statement
regarding other relevant information regarding the priority of the potential
claimants under Civil Code § 2924j(c), and (7) provide an explanation or
support for the $3,137.32 in attorney’s fees and costs sought. The Court
continued Petitioner’s motion until June 27, 2024, so that Petitioner
could file supplemental papers addressing these deficiencies.
 
On
May 20, 2024, Petitioner’s counsel, Matthew E. Podmenik, submitted a
supplemental declaration (“Podmenik Supplemental Declaration” or “Podmenik
Supp. Decl.”) addressing the deficiencies requested by the Court. 
 
Due to exigent circumstances, the Court
continued the hearing on the Petitioner’s supplemental papers until August 7,
2024. At the hearing on August 7, 2024, Petitioner represented that it had been
contacted by potential heirs or claimants to the surplus funds. The Court again
continued the hearing on Petitioner’s motion regarding discharge of Petitioner
until October 9, 2024, so that the Petitioner could file a supplemental declaration
regarding potential claimants.
 
On October 1, 2024, Petitioner’s counsel,
Megan Boyd, filed a supplemental declaration (“Boyd Supplemental Declaration”
or “Boyd Supp. Decl.”) addressing the Petitioner’s communications with
potential claimants, as requested by the Court.
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
            Petitioner Quality Loan Service
Corp. will move, and hereby does move this Court to deposit surplus funds
pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code §2924j(c) & (d) and to discharge Petitioner from
further responsibility for disbursement of the funds.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None filed. 
 
REPLY
 
            None filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                  
Legal Standard
If there is a surplus after
payment of a secured obligation, a trustee who does not file an interpleader
must serve by mail a prescribed notice of such surplus on all persons entitled
to notices of default under Civil Code §§ 2924j(b) & (c). If a conflict
exists that the trustee cannot resolve with due diligence, the trustee may, on
additional notice, file with the court a declaration of the unresolved claims
and deposit into court the amount remaining in dispute. (Civ. Code, §§
2924j(b), (c).) A summary procedure is provided for the court's resolution of
the claims, which must be heard within 90 days of the deposit. (Civ. Code, §§
2924j(c), (d).)
            Further, “If, after due diligence, the
trustee is unable to determine the priority of the written claims received by
the trustee to the trustee's sale surplus of multiple persons or if the trustee
determines there is a conflict between potential claimants, the trustee may
file a declaration of the unresolved claims and deposit with the clerk of the
superior court of the county in which the sale occurred, that portion of the
sales proceeds that cannot be distributed, less any fees charged by the clerk
pursuant to this subdivision. The declaration shall specify the date of the
trustee's sale, a description of the property, the names and addresses of all
persons sent notice pursuant to subdivision (a), a statement that the trustee
exercised due diligence pursuant to subdivision (b), that the trustee provided
written notice as required by subdivisions (a) and (d) and the amount of the
sales proceeds deposited by the trustee with the court. Further, the trustee
shall submit a copy of the trustee's sales guarantee and any information
relevant to the identity, location, and priority of the potential claimants
with the court and shall file proof of service of the notice required by
subdivision (d) on all persons described in subdivision (a).” (Civ. Code, §
2924j(c).)
II.               
Discussion
The Court is satisfied that the Podmenik Supplemental
Declaration establishes Petitioner’s compliance with due diligence
requirements, pursuant to Civil Code § 2924j(c). First, the Podmenik Supplemental Declaration establishes
that the real property was sold at a non-judicial foreclosure sale on October
19, 2023. (Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Second,
the declaration provides the legal description for the property, which states
that the property “is situated in the City of Long Beach, County of Los
Angeles, State of California, and is described as follows: Lot(s) 131 of Tract
No. 13031, in the City of Long Beach, County of Los Angeles, State of
California, as per map recorded in book 258 page(s) 32 to 35 inclusive of maps,
in the Office of the County Recorder of said county. (Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶
3.) 
 
Third, the declaration provides that, on
November 11, 2023, counsel’s office sent Notice of Surplus Funds From Trustee’s
Sale to all potential claimants and their addresses of record, and establishes
that such Notice was sent to the following parties: (1) Murlene Everett, (2)
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, (3) The Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development c/o Seattle Mortgage Company, (4) The Estate of Murlene
Everett, Deceased, (5) The Heirs or Devisees of Murlene Everett, Deceased, and
(6) The Estate of Murlene Everett, Deceased c/o Tiasseika Everett, Petitioner.
(Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A.)
 
Fourth, the declaration establishes that
Petitioner, through its counsel, did not receive any claims from the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development, and, thereafter, mailed a Second Notice of
Surplus Funds to all parties entitled to notice on January 4, 2024. (Podmenik
Supp. Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. C.) However, because Petitioner received no responses,
it was unable to determine how to distribute the remaining surplus funds and,
thus, encountered a conflict it could not resolve without assistance of the
Court. (Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
Fifth, the declaration establishes that the
amount of surplus funds in dispute totals $26,946.80, and provides the
calculation used to determine such amount. (Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 10, 11.) 
 
Sixth,
the declaration provides a true and correct copy of the Trustee Sale Guarantee
and surplus endorsements. (Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.)
 
Seventh,
the declaration provides that the $3,137.32 in costs and attorney’s fees
requested were incurred by the Petitioner in connection with the distribution
of the proceeds. (Podmenik Supp. Decl., ¶ 9.)
Further, the Court is satisfied that the
Boyd Supplemental Declaration establishes Petitioner’s due diligence
requirements as to Petitioner’s communications with potential heirs or
claimants and justifies discharging Petitioner’s remaining duties.
 
First, the Boyd Supplemental Declaration
establishes that, prior to filing the instant petition and motion, Petitioner
did not receive any written communications from any potential heirs, was
contacted by phone by potential heir Tiasseika Everett on multiple occasion
beginning on November 27, 2023. (Boyd Supp. Decl., ¶ 9.) The declaration
further provides that Petitioner provided potential heir Tiasseika Everett with
information regarding how to resolve her claims on the surplus funds, but that,
since December 18, 2023, Petitioner has not received any further communication
from her, even after Petitioner mailed the Second Notice of Surplus Funds or
Notice of Petition to Deposit Surplus Funds. (Boyd Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9, 10,
Exh. C, Exh. D; Podmenik Supp Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
Second, the Boyd Supplemental Declaration
establishes that Petitioner was also contacted by two other potential heirs,
Trent and Anthony Everett, who were present at the May 9, 2024, Hearing. (Boyd
Supp. Decl., ¶ 12.) On July 29, 2024, Petitioner was contacted once again by
potential heir Anthony Everett. (Boyd Supp. Decl., ¶ 13.) Petitioner provided
him with the relevant case number so that he could track the status of this
case and requested further information to aid his potential claim to the surplus
funds, however no information was received by Petitioner. (Ibid.) On
August 13, 2024, potential heir Anthony Everett again contacted Petitioner by
phone, and Anthony Everett confirmed that he and Trent Everett share a mailing
address. (Boyd Supp. Decl., ¶ 15.) Petitioner advised Anthony Everett to appear
at this Hearing, set for October 9, 2024, and file a direct claim with this
Court. (Ibid.) Although Petitioner requested a copy of Anthony Everett’s
photo ID and a copy of the death certificate for Murlene Everett, to date,
Petitioner states that they have received no such information. (Ibid.)


Petitioner’s
supplemental declarations in support of the motion to deposit surplus funds and
discharge Petitioner demonstrates a good faith, diligent effort to determine
the priority of potential claimants to the surplus funds, and a conflict to
determine such priority and standing. Thus, Petitioner’s Motion to Discharge
the Petitioner is GRANTED.
 
III.       Conclusion

            
            In all, Petitioner’s Motion for
Order for Deposit of Undistributed Surplus Funds Proceeds of Trustee’s Sale,
Pursuant to Civil Code Section 2924J is GRANTED, and Petitioner’s Motion to
Discharge the Petitioner is GRANTED, subject to Petitioner’s proof of posting
funds with the court.
 
            Petitioner is to electronically
submit a [proposed] ORDER, consistent with this Court’s ruling, within next
five (5) days and provide notice of ruling.
 
 Petitioner is ordered to deposit the funds
with the court in the next ten (10) days and to file a proper notice
thereafter.  [ The Petitioner will be
discharged, upon filing proper proof of posting of the funds.]
 
 
Each Claimant must
file a written claim within forty-five (45) days of this order (by 12/03/2024);
The written claim should include a declaration signed under penalty or perjury
setting forth the basis for the claim of ownership or Interest.   [Civil Code Section 2924j(d)] .   All claimants must also appear at the
hearing either in person or remotely. 
If no claims or
appearances are made, the matter may be set for an OSC Re: Escheating Funds.
(Code Civ. Pro., § 128; Govt. Code, §68084.1.)
 
 The Court sets an ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE Re:  Disbursement of Undistributed Surplus Funds
for  JANUARY 6, 2025, at 9:30 a.m. in
Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
 
Moving Party is
ordered to give notice.