 Case Number:  22STCV29385    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  56     SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR  THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      BESSIE RILEY,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT; and DOES 2 through 25,    inclusive,                                                                                                            Defendants.                                               CASE NO.:  22STCV29385   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A SECOND    AMENDED COMPLAINT   Date: November 18, 2024 Time: 8:30 a.m. Dept. 56          MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff  BESSIE RILEY (“Plaintiff”)   RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant LOS ANGELES  UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (“Defendant” or “LAUSD”)               The Court has considered the moving,  opposition and reply papers.    BACKGROUND             Plaintiff filed this a revival action under California Code of Civil  Procedure (“CCP”) § 340.1 on September 9, 2022, seeking damages for childhood  sexual abuse allegedly committed by a named employee of a school district defendant  at an elementary school (the “School”) t between approximately 1972 and  1973.  The original complaint (the “Complaint”)  was filed more than two years before the filing of this Motion for Leave to  File Second Amended Complaint (the “Motion”).    Although Plaintiff named only Does as defendants  pending the certification process, she specifically named an individual as the  perpetrator of the alleged abuse, namely Mark Henry Brendt.  (Complaint, ¶ 7.)  In fact, Mark Henry Brendt was the only  identified person or entity who appears in the Complaint.  This Court approved the service of the  Complaint based on sealed documentation presented by Plaintiff to the Court.   Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”) on March 20, 2023, six months after the filing of the  original Complaint, alleging (1) Negligence (against School); (2) Negligence (against  Does 2 through 25); (3) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision (against  School); (4) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision (against Does 2 through  25).  In the FAC, Plaintiff names Defendant  LAUSD as the sole defendant (together with Does) and states that the School  where the assaults occurred was Miramonte Elementary School.     Plaintiff continued to assert in the FAC that the  LAUSD employee who assaulted her was Mark Henry Brendt.  (FAC ¶ 7.)   In this pleading, as in the original Complaint, Plaintiff expresses no  doubt as to the identity of her assailant, neither does she identify him by his  role at the school – for example, that he was her teacher.   Defendant filed its answer to the FAC on April 20,  2023.  On May 10, 2024, Defendant filed a  Motion for Summary Judgment (the “MSJ”), which is currently scheduled for  hearing on December 4, 2024.     On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant  Motion.  Defendant filed an opposition to  the Motion on November 6, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a reply to the opposition  on November 8, 2024.     The opposition to the MSJ is due to be filed two days after the hearing on this Motion.   DISCUSSION CCP section 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in  furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to  amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any  party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any  other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or  demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the  adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any  pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an  answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”   Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed  matters between the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is  a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985)  39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013)  212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great  liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the  proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse party will not be  prejudiced.”].)   Pursuant to California Rules of Court (“CRC”) rule  3.1324(a), a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment  or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what  allegations are proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading  and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, such allegations are located.  CRC 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration that accompanies the motion,  stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and  proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were  discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made  earlier.   Plaintiff has  complied with these procedural requirements by attaching a copy of the proposed  second amended complaint (the “SAC”) and setting forth the change proposed to  be made to the previous pleading.  Plaintiff  asserts that she seeks to file the SAC to correct the name of the “perpetrator”  identified in her complaint, which she asserts that she has recently learned  through discovery and investigation.  Plaintiff  provided the Declaration of Jamie M. Majerus (“Majerus”) explaining why the  amendment is necessary and proper, and why an amendment was not made earlier.  (Declaration of Jamie M. Majerus [“Majerus  Decl.”], Exhs 1 and 2.)  Majerus,  Plaintiff’s attorney, declares that upon reviewing Defendant’s discovery responses,  Plaintiff realized the wrong perpetrator had inadvertently been named in the  FAC.  Specifically, Majerus attests that Plaintiff  mistakenly identified “Mark Henry Brendt”[1] as  the perpetrator.  (Majerus Decl., ¶7.)  Tellingly, Plaintiff herself does not provide  a declaration to explain this significant “mistake.”   In fact, according  to the Majerus Declaration, LAUSD had responded to Plaintiff’s discovery  requests almost a year ago in December of 2023 by stating that Mark Henry Berndt  had no relationship with the school attended by Plaintiff at the time she  attended it.  (Majerus Decl., ¶ 3.) The MSJ filed on  May 10, 2024 is based on one ground – that Mark Berndt – whom Plaintiff specifically  identified (but under the name Mark Henry Brendt) in her Complaint as the  person who molested her -- was not employed at the School until six years after  Plaintiff was allegedly abused.  (Id.,  ¶8.)     The instant Motion  for Leave to Amend was not filed until over five months had passed since the  filing of the MSJ.   Defendant’s MSJ is  set to be heard on December 4, 2024 – only 16 days after the hearing on this  Motion.  Trial is set for January 27,  2025 – only ten weeks after the hearing.      In justifying the  delay in filing this Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that Plaintiff  identified Gerald Shaia from a yearbook on August 1, 2024, after she made  efforts to obtain the name of Plaintiff’s fourth grade teacher, whom she now  identifies as the man who sexually abused her. (Id., ¶ 9).               In opposition, Defendant argues that  at the time Plaintiff filed her original complaint based on alleged abuse by Mark  Henry Berndt, her claim relating to him was timely because the Legislature,  through Assembly Bill 218, had revived all otherwise time-barred childhood  sexual assault claims that had not already been litigated to finality for three  years – from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2022.  Defendant contends, however, that Plaintiff’s  proposed SAC, based on alleged abuse by a different perpetrator, is untimely,  as the relation-back doctrine does not apply.   Defendant further asserts that the Motion should also be denied because Plaintiff  is asking for leave to pursue an entirely new case.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s new  theory—that Defendant was negligent in its supervision of another individual —was  not “imperfectly pleaded” such that it can be fixed with an amendment, but that  the theory regarding the alleged actions of Gerald Shaia “was not pleaded at  all.”               The Court agrees with Defendant’s  contention.  Under the “doctrine of  relation back,” a court deems an amended complaint to have been filed at the  time of an earlier complaint.  The  doctrine requires that the amended complaint rest on the same general set of  facts, involve the same injury, and involve the same “instrumentality” or cause  of injury.  (Norgart v. Upjohn Co.  (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 408-409.)  An  amended complaint relates back to the original complaint even if the plaintiff  alleges a new legal theory or cause of action, so long as the amended complaint  is based on the same general set of facts.  (Pointe San Diego Residential Community,  L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011) 195  Cal.App.4th 265, 277.) To determine whether an amended complaint rests on the  same general set of facts for purposes of the statute of limitations, the most  important consideration is whether the original pleading gave the defendant  adequate notice of the claim.  (Id.)   “‘The policy behind statutes of  limitations is to put defendants on notice of the need to defend against a  claim in time to prepare a fair defense on the merits. This policy is satisfied  when recovery under an amended complaint is sought on the same basic set of  facts as the original pleading.’”  (Id.)   Here,  Plaintiff’s proposed SAC completely changes the nature of the claim by withdrawing  the name of the perpetrator upon whose actions she asserted her original claim  and inserting a completely new perpetrator.   The perpetrator in the proposed SAC is a completely different “instrumentality”  from that alleged in both the original Complaint and the FAC.  This is not a mere change in legal theory or  cause of action but a completely new set of facts.  A claim that Mark Henry Berndt molested  Plaintiff is not the same as a claim that Gerald Shaia molested her.  Thus, the relation-back doctrine cannot apply.   Although  Plaintiff did not name Mark Henry Berndt as a defendant in her pleadings, her  entire case rests upon his identity and alleged actions as the perpetrator of  the alleged molestation.  (Diliberti  v. Stage Call Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1468, 1470.)  The allegation that LAUSD was negligent in  supervising Mark Henry Berndt is not the same as a claim that it was negligent  in supervising an entirely different person, Gerald Chaia.     With  trial only two months away, Defendant’s prejudice from the filing of the  proposed SAC is apparent.  For the past  two years, LAUSD has been litigating a case about alleged molestation by one  employee and Plaintiff seeks to change it to a case against another.  It is in a way no different from claiming  that an alleged molestation in one school is the same as an alleged molestation  in another school.  In no way would an  investigation or discovery regarding a claim against Mark Henry Berndt be  equivalent to an investigation against Gerald Shaia.     Because  the relation-back doctrine does not apply here, the new claim involving Gerald Shaia  as perpetrator is barred by the statute of limitations, even though her  previous claim against Mark Henry Berndt was revived by Assembly Bill 218, as the  proposed SAC would not have been be filed on or before December 31, 2022.  (West Contra Costa Unified School Dist. V.  Superior Court (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243, 1254.) Where amendment would be futile, leave to  amend should not be granted.  (Caliber  Bodyworks, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 365,  374.)   RULING Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED.     Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.             Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org  as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at  www.lacourt.org.  If the department does  not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion  will be placed off calendar.   Dated this 18th day of November 2024                     Hon. Holly J.    Fujie Judge of the    Superior Court           