  Case Number:  19STCV36333    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  26 


 
MELINDA BAKER; and
  STAMPEDE WAY, LLC,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
DARRELL
  AVISS; INTERSWISS HOLDINGS GROUP, LLC; SWISS MANAGEMENT GROUP, LTD.; KLUEGER
  & STEIN, LLP; ROBERT FRANKLIN KLUEGER; JACOB STEIN,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  19STCV36333
 
  Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant robert f. klueger’s motion for determination of good
  faith settlement



 
Procedural
Background
            On October
9, 2019, Plaintiffs Melinda Baker (“Baker”) and Stampede Way, LLC (“SW”) (jointly
“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant legal malpractice and fraud action.  On November 5, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Darrell Avis,
InterSwiss Holdings Group, LLC, Swiss Management Group, LTD., Klueger &
Stein, LLP, Jacob Stein, SwissGuard International, GMBH, SwissTrust
International Inc., and SMG SwissTrust Holdings SA.  On March 10, 2023, default was entered
against Defendants Darrell Aviss, Swiss Management Group, LTD., and SwissTrust
International Inc.
            On
April 6, 2023 – the day set for trial – the Honorable Terry Green, who was
presiding over the instant action, announced his retirement, continued the trial
to September 11, 2023, and held that “[a]ll cut off dates remain based of[f]
the original trial date of April 6, 2023.” 
(Minute Order 4/6/23.)  
            On
March 22, 2024, Defendant Robert Franklin Klueger (“Klueger”) filed the instant
motion for determination of good faith settlement.
            On
April 2, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition.
Determination of
Good Faith Settlement
            In
any action in which two or more defendants are joint tortfeasors, a “good
faith” settlement by one of these defendants with the plaintiff bars the other
defendants from seeking contribution from the settling defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.)  The settlement shall also “reduce the claims
against the others” by the amount stipulated in the settlement.  (Id., subd. (a).) 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 877.6, subdivision (a): A settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.  The application shall indicate the settling
parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement.  The notice, application, and proposed order
shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service.  Proof of service shall be filed
with the court.  Within 25 days of the
mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of
personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest
the good faith of the settlement.  If
none of the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the
notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,
the court may approve the settlement.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) 
Once the Court
determines the settlement was made in good faith, the other joint tortfeasors
are barred from pursuing further claims against the settling tortfeasors for
contribution.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (c).)  The policies behind Sections
877 and 877.6 are, “(1) The equitable sharing of costs among the parties at
fault and (2) the encouragement of settlements.”  (Erreca’s v. Superior Court (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 1475, 1487.)  The trial court
is given wide discretion to determine whether the settlement was in “good
faith,” and its decision is reviewed for the existence of “substantial
evidence.”  (Hellam v. Crane Co. (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 851, 860.) 
To determine
whether a settlement is in “good faith,” courts rely on the factors elucidated
by the Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates.
 These factors include, but are not
limited to: a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the
settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial.  Other relevant considerations
include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.  [Citation.]  Finally, practical considerations obviously
require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)
In Cahill v.
San Diego Gas & Elec. Co., the Court of Appeal upheld a settlement
between the plaintiff, Cahill, and one of the joint tortfeasors, Owens, for
$25,000, despite the Cahill’s damages being over $5 million.  (Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co.
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 966.)  This
was because, “the trial court could rationally find that, based on information
available at the time of the settlement, a reasonable person could believe
Owners had little, if any, potential liability for Cahill's injuries.”  (Id. at 962.) 
“‘The party
asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§
877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to these factors as to
be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a
demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
“settlement made in good faith” within the terms of section 877.6.’  (Tech–Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
pp. 499-500.)  The trial court’s section
877.6 determination ‘should be made on the basis of experience rather than
speculation.’  (Tech–Bilt, at p.
500, 213 Cal.Rptr. 256.)  ‘ “When testing
the good faith of a settlement figure, a court may enlist the guidance of the
judge's personal experience and of experts in the field.” ’ (Ibid.) ‘[A]
determination as to whether a settlement is in good faith must be left to the
discretion of the trial court.’  (Id.
at p. 502, 213 Cal.Rptr. 256, 698 P.2d 159.)”  (Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co.
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 960.) 
            Here,
the motion was served on March 22, 2024, and the non-settling defendants have
not challenged the proposed settlement. 
The terms of the
settlement, as outlined in the declaration of Settling Defendant’s attorney, Bradley
E. Jewett, are that Settling Defendant will pay Plaintiffs the sum of
$135,000.00 over the course of thirty-six months in exchange for a release of
claims and dismissal of Settling Defendant from the lawsuit, with prejudice.  (Jewett Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 1.)  Plaintiffs and Settling Defendant agreed to
enter into a Stipulation for Continuing Jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 664.6 relating to the enforcement of the Settlement
Agreement.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs and Settling Defendant also agreed
to enter into a Stipulation for Judgment against Settling Defendant for any
portion of the Settlement Amount that Settling Defendant fails to timely tender
in accordance with the Settlement Agreement. 
(Id.)  As part of the
settlement, Settling Defendant agreed to appear remotely at trial for testimony
if requested by Plaintiffs and approved by the Court.  (Id.) 

The Second
Amended Complaint requests compensatory damages in an amount according to proof
and not less than $3,723,837.23.  There
is no evidence that the proposed settlement is a grossly disproportionate
approximation of Plaintiffs’ recovery and Settling Defendant’s liability such
that the settlement was not made in good faith.  The primary claim against Settling Defendant
in the SAC is, essentially one for negligent referral, which Settling Defendant
asserts is not a cause of action in California. 
Further, Settling Defendant asserts he did not profit from referring
Plaintiffs to Aviss; was unaware Plaintiffs provided the Investment Funds to
Aviss until 2019; and did not communicate with Plaintiffs for more than four
(4) years before the Action was filed. 
(Jewett Decl., ¶ 5.)  No
nonsettling party has filed a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the
settlement. For all the reasons stated, the Court finds this settlement was
made in good faith. 
Accordingly, Settling
Defendant’s motion for good faith settlement is GRANTED. 
             
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Robert F. Klueger’s motion for good
faith settlement is GRANTED.
Moving Party is to give notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED: April 10, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior Court