 Case Number:  22STCV19352    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On June 14, 2022, Plaintiff
Mary Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant
David Lopez (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle tort, general negligence, and
wrongful death. 
On July 5, 2024, the Court dismissed the case without
prejudice. 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to set
aside the dismissal.  The motion was set
to be heard on August 14, 2024. 
No trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff asks the Court to set aside the dismissal. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides in part: 
“Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the
time within which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section
583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
          Plaintiff has filed a timely motion which includes an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.  The Court therefore grants the
motion and vacates the July 5, 2024 order dismissing the case. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Mary Hernandez’s motion to set aside the dismissal.  The Court vacates the dismissal entered on July
5, 2024. 
The
Court sets an OSC re: failure to obtain entry of default on September 26, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.