  Case Number:  20STCV18231    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 24, 2020, Plaintiff Hrach Agazaryan (“Agazaryan”) filed this action
against Defendants Amado De Borja, Betty De Borja, Lotus Restaurant, Axtamar
Restaurant (“Axtamar”), and Does 1-100 for negligence and assault/battery. 
On
July 13, 2021, Agazaryan filed a first amended complaint. 
On
October 15, 2021, the Court sustained Axtamar’s demurrer to Agazaryan’s first
amended complaint with leave to amend. 
On
October 28, 2021, the Court sustained the demurrer of Defendants Amado De Borja
and Betty De Borja to the first amended complaint. The Court also dismissed
Defendants Amado De Borja and Betty De Borja without prejudice at Agazaryan’s
request. 
On
October 29, 2021, Agazaryan filed a second amended complaint against Defendants
Amado De Borja, Betty De Borja, Axtamar, and Does 1-100 for negligence and
assault/battery. 
On
January 27, 2022, the Court sustained Axtamar Restaurant’s demurrer to Agazaryan’s
second amended complaint with leave to amend. 
On
February 16, 2022, Agazaryan filed a third amended complaint against Defendants
Amado De Borja, Betty De Borja, Axtamar, and Does 1-100 for negligence and
assault/battery. 
On
April 19, 2022, the Court (1) overruled Axtamar’s demurrer to Agazaryan’s third
amended complaint and (2) granted in part Axtamar’s motion to strike and struck
all references to Axtamar in the second cause of action. The Court denied
Axtamar’s request to strike the punitive damage claim in the second cause of
action. 
On
August 18, 2022, the Court granted State Farm General Insurance Company’s ex
parte application to intervene. 
On
August 26, 2022, Plaintiff-in-Intervention State Farm
General Insurance Company (“Intervenor”) filed a complaint-in-intervention
against Defendants-in-Intervention Agazaryan and Roes 1-20 “solely in [Intervenor’s]
capacity as liability insurer of Defendant MAMKA, INC. dba LOTUS RESTAURANT
(named herein as Defendant MAMKA, INC. dba AXTAMAR RESTAURANT (formerly dba
LOTUS RESTAURANT) . . . .” 
On June
13, 2024, the Court granted Intervenor’s unopposed motion to deem admitted
matters specified in requests for admission, set one, and deemed admitted the
matters specified in the requests for admission served on Agazaryan on October
31, 2023. 
On
July 9, 2024, Agazaryan filed a motion to amend and/or withdraw admissions
deemed admitted.  The motion was set for hearing
on August 14, 2024.  On August 1, 2024,
Intervenor filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 1, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Agazaryan asks the Court for an order to amend or withdraw the “deemed admissions” established
in the Court’s June 13, 2024 order. 
Intervenor
asks the Court to deny the motion or, if the Court grants the motion, to
continue the trial and related dates.  
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.300 provides: 
“(a) A party may withdraw or amend an admission made
in response to a request for admission only on leave of court granted after
notice to all parties. 
“(b) The court may permit
withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party
who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining
that party’s action or defense on the merits. 
“(c) The court may impose conditions on the granting
of the motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the following: 
“(1) An order that the party who obtained the
admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery related to the matter
involved in the withdrawn or amended admission. 
“(2) An order that the costs of any additional
discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party withdrawing or amending the
admission.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300.) 
DISCUSSION 
In New
Albertson’s Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403 (New
Albertson’s), the Court of Appeal explained: “The trial court’s discretion
in ruling on a motion to withdraw or amend an admission is not unlimited, but
must be exercised in conformity with the spirit of the law and in a manner that
serves the interests of justice. Because the law
strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying
section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. Accordingly,
the court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to
circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was
inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would
substantially prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining
that party’s action or defense on the merits.” 
(New Albertson’s, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1420-1421.) 
Applying
this standard, the Court of Appeal held the trial court abused its discretion
in denying the defendant’s request to withdraw an admission because the
admission was based on a mistaken belief that a photograph showed a bag of ice
on the floor.  In fact, the item in the
photograph was a wrapper for a cervical collar. 
The Court of Appeal concluded the error in identifying the item was not
“clearly inexcusable.” (New Albertson’s, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1421.) 
Here, Agazaryan asserts that calendaring errors in his attorney’s office resulted in
his failure to (1) serve responses to Intervenor’s requests for admission, (2)
file an opposition to Intervenor’s motion to deem admitted matters specified in
the requests for admission, and (3) attend the originally-scheduled and continued
hearings on Intervenor’s motion.  Agazaryan also argues that Intervenor will not be substantially prejudiced if the Court
grants the motion because Intervenor has time to complete any remaining
discovery.
Intervenor
opposes the motion, arguing Agazaryan has not shown mistake or excusable
neglect because he “was afforded ample notice and opportunity to either oppose [Intervenor’s]
motion to deem matters admitted or provide verified substantive responses in
the 49 days between the time [Intervenor] filed its motion and the time the
motion was heard.”  (Opposition p.
4.)  Intervenor also argues that it will
suffer prejudice if the Court grants Agazaryan’s motion because the non-expert
discovery motion deadline is approaching. 
The
Court finds that the “deemed admissions” were the result of Agazaryan’s counsel’s
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that Intervenor will not be
substantially prejudiced in maintaining its action on the
merits.  The Court therefore grants the
motion.  However, the Court also grants
Intervenor’s request to continue the trial and to provide Intervenor time to “pursue
additional discovery related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended
admission.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (c)(1).) 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Hrach Agazaryan’s motion
to vacate the order deeming admitted the matters specified in the requests for
admissions served by Plaintiff-in-Intervention State Farm General Insurance
Company.  The Court vacates the order deeming the matters admitted. 
The Court CONTINUES the trial to January 2, 2025 or
the next available date.  (The Court will
provide the date at the August 14, 2024 hearing.)  The final status conference, discovery, and
related dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.