  Case Number:  20STCV11677    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Nobia  Joyce v. Shawn M. Millner, et al.  Plaintiff’s  Motion to File First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to file First Amended  Complaint.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a quiet title action. On March 20, 2020, plaintiff Nobia  Joyce (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shawn M. Millner, the  Shawn Marie Millner Revocable Trust (collectively, Millner), Laurence Todd  (Todd) (Millner and Todd may be collectively referred to as Defendants), and  Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for quiet title, partition,  declaratory relief, and ejectment and damages.  On November 29, 2022, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against  Plaintiff, Stephen R. Golden, Stephen R. Golden & Associates, P.C., and  Does 1 through 20. On February 2, 2024, Defendants filed the operative Second  Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC) against the same parties, alleging causes of  action for breach of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement, breach of the  covenant of good faith of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement, fraud (No. 1),  breach of the August 2018 Co-signor agreement, breach of the covenant of good  faith breach [sic] of the August 2018 Co-tenant [sic]  agreement, fraud (No. 2), assault, battery, false imprisonment, negligent  infliction of emotional distress, intentional infliction of emotional distress,  slander of title, fraud (No. 3), invasion of privacy, unjust enrichment,  comparative indemnity, apportionment of fault, breach of the May 2023  Settlement Agreement, and breach of the covenant of good faith of the May 2023  Settlement Agreement. On August 27, 2024, the Court dismissed cross-defendants  Stephen R. Golden and Stephen R. Golden & Associates, P.C., from the SACC  without prejudice.  On August 28, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the First and Second  Causes of Action for quiet title and partition as to Defendant Todd without  prejudice.  On September 9, 10 and 11, 2024, the Court tried Plaintiff’s  equitable claims for quiet title and partition.  On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff moved to file a First Amended  Complaint. On October 21, 2024, Defendants opposed the motion. On October 28,  2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Code of Civil  Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,  after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an  amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like  terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) This discretion should be exercised liberally  in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed  matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court  (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Under Rule  3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a  pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended  pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous  pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading  are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line  number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are  proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of  Court, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1)  the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)  when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)  the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments              Plaintiff seeks to file an amended  complaint to add a new cause of action for elder and dependent adult financial  abuse, neglect, and abandonment, and to remove the names of Plaintiff’s former  attorneys. Plaintiff indicates that the complaint was not amended earlier for  two reasons, namely that Plaintiff’s prior attorneys were involved in two  lengthy but meritless appeals in the two other actions between the same parties,  and that Plaintiff’s current counsel first focused on getting an early trial  date for the quiet title and partition causes of action until their recent  resolution.              In opposition, Defendants first  contend that the proposed First Amended Complaint (FAC) does not plead the  elder abuse claim with specificity. Second, Defendants contend that the elder  abuse claim is barred by the statute of limitations because Plaintiff has not  had any direct communication with them outside of litigation, and any alleged  misconduct occurring in 2015 or before is time barred. Third, Defendants  contend the elder abuse claim is barred by res judicata because this cause of  action was alleged in the prior actions. Fourth, Defendants contend that  Plaintiff has improperly delayed bringing this action. Defendants also contend  the Court should not permit amendment while the motions for new trial and  impending motion for terminating sanctions are pending.  Analysis                        The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion  not well taken. First, Plaintiff’s counsel does not make clear when the facts  giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, instead only focusing  on why the request was not made earlier. (Pallack Decl., ¶ 4; Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b)(3).) Plaintiff only offers that Plaintiff’s prior  counsel did not include the proposed elder abuse claim in the complaint because  counsel was busy with 2 appeals. It is also unclear why Plaintiff’s current  counsel’s focus on getting trial preference for the quiet title and partition  claims prevented Plaintiff from seeking leave to amend sooner. (Pallack Decl.,  ¶ 5; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b)(4).)              Second, the Court agrees with Defendants that leave to  amend would be improper because the proposed elder abuse claim is both untimely  and would be subject to demurrer based on the statute of limitations. (Yee v. Mobilehome Park Rental Rev. Bd. (City of Escondido)  (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1429.) The proposed FAC alleges that Plaintiff’s  injury of being locked out of her home and becoming homeless occurred on or  about March 23, 2015, which is more than four years before the operative  complaint was filed on March 20, 2020. (Proposed FAC (10/7/24), ¶¶ 36, 89-90;  Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.7.) Plaintiff was clearly aware of this claim  and has already previously alleged a claim for elder abuse in LASC Case Number  KC067782 based on her allegedly having been kicked out of her home back in 2015.  (Proposed FAC (10/7/24), ¶ 39; Compl. (LASC Case No. KC067782, filed 7/17/15),  ¶ 43.) None of the other remaining allegations in the proposed FAC demonstrate  a separate incident that would trigger a new statute of limitations for an  elder abuse claim. (See Proposed FAC (10/7/24), ¶¶ 37-57.)              Finally, the Court finds permitting leave to amend at  this time would be prejudicial in light of Plaintiff having previously sought  and obtained trial preference for a bifurcated trial, and the Court is now  ready to set trial dates for the remaining causes of action. (See Order re  Tentative Ruling (5/1/24); P&D Consultants, Inc. v.  City of Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345 [trial court has  discretion to deny leave to amend for unwarranted delay of trial].) This action  has been pending for almost five years now. Permitting leave to amend would  only further delay the resolution of this dispute, which has been ongoing since  2015.              Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s  motion to file a First Amended Complaint.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to file First Amended  Complaint.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.