 Case Number:  22PSCV01829    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Sophia  Soli v. Polaris Industries, Inc., et al.  Polaris  Industries Inc.’s Motion to Preserve Confidential Status of Portions of Aaron  Deckard and Donald Zeck Deposition Transcripts Pursuant to the Protective Order  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Polaris Industries Inc.’s motion to preserve  confidential status of portions of Aaron Deckard and Donald Deck’s deposition  transcripts pursuant to the protective order.               Polaris Industries Inc. is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a products liability action. On November 15, 2022, plaintiff  Sophia Soli (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Polaris  Industries, Inc. (Polaris), Seidner Enterprises, LLC, and Does 1 to 50,  alleging causes of action for strict products liability and negligence.  On September 4, 2024, Polaris moved to preserve the confidential  status of portions of certain deposition transcripts per the protective order.  On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On October 29, 2024, Polaris  replied.  LEGAL STANDARD              “Before,  during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected  natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The  motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)  REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  Polaris’ request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice of the  foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  The Court appreciates Polaris’ efforts to meet and confer before  bringing this motion. (Kim Decl., Exs. C, E; Dept. 6 Courtroom Information.)  Summary of Arguments  Polaris asks the Court to enter an order preserving the  confidential status of certain portions of the deposition transcripts of Aaron  Deckard and Donald Zeck per the parties’ December 11, 2023 protective order  (the Protective Order). Polaris contends its confidentiality designations per  the Protective Order should be upheld. Polaris contends the parties agreed that  entry of an order controlling access to and dissemination of documents  pertaining to confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information would  protect the parties’ respective interests and facilitate the discovery process  in this case. Polaris contends there is no presumption of right of public  access to depositions.  Polaris contends it properly designated portions of the deposition  transcripts as containing trade secrets. Polaris contends that Mr. Deckard and  Mr. Zeck testified extensively on various Polaris trade secrets, including information  related to the development, design, testing, and engineering analyses of the  subject vehicle. Polaris contends the information has independent economic  value and that Polaris undertakes significant efforts to maintain the secrecy  of the designated information. Polaris further contends it properly designated  portions of the deposition transcripts as confidential research, development,  and commercial information, and that preserving the confidential status of the  designated portions of the deposition transcripts appropriately balances the  interests of the parties and the public.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues Polaris had the burden to  establish that disclosure of testimony poses a direct and present risk of harm  per the terms of the Protective Order. Plaintiff contends that a party’s  designation of material as confidential does not create a presumption of  confidentiality. Plaintiff contends Polaris’ proffered declarations in support  of this motion lack the specificity and reasoning necessary to conclude that  specific testimony reveals commercially sensitive information. Plaintiff contends  Polaris should have provided a separate statement per Rule 3.1345, subdivision  (a), of the California Rules of Court. Plaintiff contends the only testing  discussed in the depositions was conducted per the standard published by the  Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle Association, which method is available to  anyone, and is not a trade secret. Plaintiff further contends that even if  these deposition transcripts contain trade secret or other confidential  information, they involve matters of public safety and therefore matters of  public interest by extension, i.e., the safety of off-road vehicles like those  of Polaris.  Analysis  The Court finds Polaris is entitled to preserving the confidential  information stated in the deposition transcripts of Aaron Deckard and Donald  Zeck. The Protective Order defines the term “Confidential Information” as, “any  information that is designated in good faith as confidential either as a trade  secret, under California Civil Code Section 3426.1(d), or is protected by  California’s constitution, common law right to privacy and/or applicable  statute or regulation.” (Protective Order (12/11/23).) The Court finds the  information contained in the depositions of Mr. Deckard and Mr. Zeck implicates  or at least potentially implicates Polaris’ confidential trade secret  information, and the public disclosure of such information could harm Polaris’  business interests. (See Kim Decl., Exs. B, D.) It is also unclear to the Court  what benefit public disclosure of this information will provide to Plaintiff’s  case, as Plaintiff already has this information. The Court finds that Polaris  has established a sufficient basis to maintain this information as confidential  per the Protective Order.  Moreover, Polaris was not required to submit a separate statement  with its motion. Rule 3.1345, subdivision (a), of the California Rules of Court  specifically lists the seven categories of discovery motions that require a  separate statement, and it does not list this motion as one of them. (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) Furthermore, the fact that Polaris may  have used a standard testing method prescribed by the Recreational Off-Highway  Vehicle Association does not necessarily mean all the information involved in  Polaris’ testing is not protected by trade secret. (See McGuan v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010) 182  Cal.App.4th 974, 988.)  Finally, the fact that the subject matter of these deposition  testimonies may have some link to issues of public safety does not by itself  warrant their disclosure. (DVD Copy Control Assn., Inc. v.  Bunner (2003) 31 Cal.4th 864, 884.) Plaintiff has not demonstrated a  sufficiently strong public interest in this issue to warrant the public  disclosure of the information requested.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Polaris Industries Inc.’s motion to preserve  confidential status of portions of Aaron Deckard and Donald Deck’s deposition  transcripts pursuant to the protective order.               Polaris Industries Inc. is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.