  Case Number:  22STCV32207    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




alan m. bagamaspad

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sergio moreno morales

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV32207




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   28, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ demurrer to operative complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Sergio Moreno
Morales, Michael Yuan Lee, ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet Imports,
Inc., Francisco Puertas, and Sandy Segovia
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad, individually
and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and Elenita A.
Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living
Trust       
Demurrer to Operative Complaint
Defendants Sergio Moreno
Morales, Michael Yuan Lee, ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet Imports,
Inc., Francisco Puertas, and Sandy Segovia (“Defendants”) filed the pending
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint filed by plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad,
individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and
Elenita A. Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable
Living Trust (“Plaintiffs”) on August 3, 2023, with a hearing date of January
25, 2024. 
Thereafter, on January 19,
2024, the court issued a minute order continuing the hearing on Defendants’
demurrer to February 28, 2024.  (Jan. 19,
2024 Order, p. 1.)  The court ordered
counsel for Defendants to give notice.  (Ibid.
[“Counsel reflected on attached Certificate of Mailing is ordered to give
notice”]; Jan. 19, 2024 Cert. of Mailing [identifying Adam Michael Apollo,
counsel of record for Defendants].) 
However, Defendants did not file a notice of ruling or proof of service
establishing that Plaintiffs and nonmoving defendant Ten Advisors, Inc. have
been given notice that the court continued the hearing on Defendants’
demurrer.  Thus, the court is unable to
verify whether Plaintiffs and nonmoving defendant Ten Advisors, Inc. have
received notice of the February 28, 2024 hearing on Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint. 
The court exercises its
discretion to continue the hearing on Defendants’ demurrer to ensure that all
the parties involved in this action have notice of the hearing thereon. 
The court orders that the
hearing on defendants Sergio Moreno Morales, Michael Yuan Lee, ASE
Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet Imports, Inc., Francisco Puertas, and Sandy
Segovia’s demurrer to operative complaint is continued to March 25, 2024, at
10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders defendants
Sergio Moreno Morales, Michael Yuan Lee, ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont
Cabinet Imports, Inc., Francisco Puertas, and Sandy Segovia (1) to serve a
notice of this ruling on (i) plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad, individually and as
trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and Elenita A. Bagamaspad,
individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and (ii) defendant
Ten Advisors, Inc., and (2) to file with the court a proof of service of the
notice of ruling on plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee
of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and Elenita A. Bagamaspad,
individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and
defendant Ten Advisors, Inc. no later than March 8, 2024. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 28, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court