 Case Number:  23STCV15033    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




erica elliott

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
equity residential
   management, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV15033




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   28, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of complaint
(3)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(4)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Equity Residential
Management, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:
   Plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside,
Tashiya Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant TransUnion Rental
Screening Solutions, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside,
Tashiya Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire              
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with each demurrer and motion to strike. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies defendant
Equity Residential Management, LLC’s requests for judicial notice, filed on
December 15, 2023, because the rulings of other Superior Court departments are
not relevant to a material issue presented by its demurrer and motion to
strike.  (Malek Media Group LLC v.
AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825.) 
The court denies plaintiffs
James Brown, Mark Burnside, Tashiya Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth
McGuire’s request for judicial notice, filed on December 11, 2023, because the
matters to be judicially noticed are not relevant to a material issue presented
by the demurrer and motion to strike filed by defendant TransUnion Rental
Screening Solutions, Inc.  (Malek
Media Group LLC, supra, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Erica Elliot, Clifton Taylor Jr., Allean Blacksher,
Leah-Camille Blacksher, James Brown, Mark Burnside, Henryk Garcia, Rebecca
Hagedorn, Tashiya Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, Gabriela Espinoza, Juan Castro,
Ivana Ivy, Erik Jaksch, Amair Jaber, Don Logan, Elizabeth McGuire, Shanise
Reed, and Ashley Colbert filed their Complaint in this action against defendant
Equity Residential Management, LLC (“Equity”) on June 28, 2023.  The plaintiffs filed an Amendment to
Complaint on July 20, 2023, amending the Complaint by substituting defendant
TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc. (“TransUnion”) for the fictitious
name Doe 1 wherever it appears in the Complaint. 
Thereafter, on January 8, 2024, plaintiffs Allean Blacksher,
Leah-Camille Blacksher, Henryk Garcia, Rebecca Hagedorn, Ivana Ivy, Amair
Jaber, Erik Jaksch, and Shanise Reed were dismissed pursuant to the Request for
Dismissal filed by the plaintiffs on January 8, 2024.  Plaintiffs Gabriela Espinoza, Juan Castro,
Ashley Colbert, Erica Elliot, Clifton Taylor Jr., and Don Logan were dismissed
on February 21, 2024, pursuant to the Request for Dismissal filed by the
plaintiffs on February 16, 2024. 
Remaining plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside, Tashiya Matthis,
Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege
three causes of action in their Complaint for (1) violations of the
Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act;          (2) invasion of privacy; and (3)
declaratory relief. 
Two sets of responsive pleadings are now pending before the
court.  First, Equity moves the court for
an order (1) sustaining its demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second and third causes of
action, and (2) striking from the Complaint Plaintiffs’ requests for
declaratory and injunctive relief and punitive damages.  Second, defendant TransUnion moves the court
for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first, second, and
third causes of action, and (2) striking from the Complaint all requests for
relief set forth in the prayer. 
DEMURRER FILED BY EQUITY
The court sustains Equity’s demurrer to the second cause of action for
invasion of privacy because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts establishing that
Equity invaded Plaintiffs’ privacy in a manner highly offensive to a reasonable
person and sufficiently serious in nature and scope, including because,
although Plaintiffs have alleged that Equity did not comply with the
Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (Civ. Code, § 1786 et seq.)
(“ICRAA”), Plaintiffs have also alleged that they completed an application that
included a consent to release their information.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl.,
¶ 35;  Mezger v. Bick (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 76, 86 [“The elements of a common law invasion of privacy claim are
intrusion into a private place, conversation, or matter, in a manner highly
offensive to a reasonable person”], 88 [“‘Actionable invasions of privacy must
be sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and actual or potential impact
to constitute an egregious breach of the social norms underlying their privacy
right’”].) 
The court sustains Equity’s demurrer to the third cause of action for
declaratory relief because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) “‘[d]eclaratory relief operates prospectively,
serving to set controversies at rest before obligations are repudiated,
rights are invaded or wrongs are committed’” and does not redress past
wrongs;     (2) although Plaintiffs have
alleged that declaratory relief is necessary because Equity, when demanding
that leases be renewed or recertified, uses the same forms authorizing it to
obtain investigative consumer reports about tenants, Plaintiffs have not
alleged that they intend to renew or recertify their leases and therefore may
be required to use forms that do not comply with ICRAA; and (3) Plaintiffs therefore
have not alleged facts establishing the existence of an actual, present
controversy within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 1060.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10, subd. (e), 1060;
In re Tobacco Cases II (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 779, 804-805 [emphasis in
original]; Compl., ¶ 65.) 
MOTION
TO STRIKE FILED BY EQUITY
Equity moves for an order striking the following from Plaintiffs’
Complaint: (1) the requests for declaratory relief set forth in paragraphs 1,
5, 47, 59, and 61; (2) the request for injunctive relief set forth in paragraph
61; (3) the requests for punitive damages set forth in paragraphs 5, 47, and
59; and (4) paragraphs 4, 8, 9, and 10 of the prayer in their entirety. 
The court grants Equity’s motion to strike the requests for injunctive
relief set forth in paragraph 61 of the Complaint and paragraphs 9 and 10 of
the prayer because injunctive relief is not an available remedy for violation
of the ICRAA and therefore those requests are improper.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Civ. Code,
§ 1786.50 [setting forth available remedies for the failure to comply with
ICRAA].) 
The court grants Equity’s motion to strike the requests for
declaratory relief set forth in paragraphs 1, 5, 47, 59, and 61 of the
Complaint and paragraph 8 of the prayer because the court has determined, for
the reasons set forth above, that Plaintiffs have not stated facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action for declaratory relief.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  
The court denies Equity’s motion to strike the requests for punitive
damages set forth      in paragraphs 5,
47, and 59 and paragraph 4 of the prayer because Plaintiffs have alleged facts
establishing that (1) Equity willfully violated the ICRAA, and (2) Equity, in
willfully violating the ICRAA, engaged in conduct while willfully and consciously
disregarding Plaintiffs’ rights, such that Plaintiffs have alleged facts
establishing that Equity is guilty of malice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Civ. Code, §§ 3294, subds. (a),
(c)(1), 1786.50, subd. (b) [the court may assess punitive damages upon a
finding that the defendant willfully violated the ICRAA]; Compl., ¶¶ 40-48,
59.) 
To the extent that Equity requests that the court strike paragraphs 1,
5, 47, 59, and 61 of the Complaint in their entirety, the court denies that
request because Equity has not shown that all the information set forth in
those paragraphs is irrelevant or improper.
DEMURRER
FILED BY TRANSUNION
The court overrules TransUnion’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for violation of the ICRAA on the ground that it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action because (1) TransUnion contends that
Plaintiffs’ claims under this statute are not applicable to TransUnion since it
is not a landlord, but (2) TransUnion has not pointed to any allegation in the
Complaint or judicially noticed matter establishing that fact, instead relying
on a declaration outside of the pleadings, and therefore has not met its burden
to show that this cause of action does not state facts sufficient against it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Demurrer, p. 6:1-4, 6:13-19; Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross
of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 834 [“Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can refer to matters
outside the pleading only if those matters are subject to judicial notice”]
[emphasis in original].)  
The court sustains TransUnion’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for invasion of privacy because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
establishing that TransUnion invaded their privacy in a manner highly offensive
to a reasonable person and sufficiently serious in nature and scope.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Compl., ¶¶ 32, 39, 63;  Mezger, supra,
66 Cal.App.5th at pp. 86 [elements of invasion of privacy claim], 88 [“‘Actionable
invasions of privacy must be sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and
actual or potential impact to constitute an egregious breach of the social
norms underlying their privacy right’”].) 
The court sustains TransUnion’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for declaratory relief because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action since, as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on
Equity’s demurrer, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts establishing the existence
of an actual, present controversy and instead appear to request a judicial
declaration to address an alleged past wrong. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10, subd. (e), 1060; In re Tobacco Cases II,
supra, 240 Cal.App.5th at p. 805 [“‘[D]eclaratory relief          “‘operates prospectively, and not
merely for the redress of past wrongs’”’”]; Compl., ¶ 65.) 
MOTION
TO STRIKE FILED BY TRANSUNION
TransUnion moves the court for an order striking the following from the
Complaint:       (1) paragraphs 5, 47,
57, 59, 61, and 68, and (2) paragraphs 1 through 10 of the prayer. 
The court grants TransUnion’s motion to strike the requests for
injunctive relief set forth in paragraph 61 of the Complaint and paragraphs
9-10 of the prayer because injunctive relief is not an available remedy for
violation of the ICRAA and therefore those requests are improper.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Civ. Code,
§ 1786.50 [setting forth available remedies for the failure to comply with
ICRAA].) 
The court grants TransUnion’s motion to strike the request for
declaratory relief in paragraph 8 of the prayer because the court has
determined, as set forth above, that Plaintiffs have not stated facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for declaratory relief.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
The court denies TransUnion’s motion to strike the requests for
punitive damages set forth in paragraphs 5, 47, and 59 of the Complaint and in paragraph
4 of the prayer because Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing that (1)
TransUnion willfully violated the ICRAA (Compl., ¶¶ 47-48, 54-55, 59), and
(2) TransUnion, in willfully violating the ICRAA, engaged in conduct with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs
have therefore alleged that TransUnion is guilty of malice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Civ. Code,
§§ 3294, subds. (a), (c)(1), 1786.50, subd. (b) [the court may assess
punitive damages upon a finding that the defendant willfully violated the
ICRAA]; Compl., ¶¶ 40-48, 59.) 
The court denies TransUnion’s motion to strike (1) paragraphs 57, 61,
and 68, and          (2) paragraphs 1-7
of the Prayer because the court has overruled its demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436; Mot., p. 5:23-25 [contending that the court should strike all
relief requested in the prayer on the ground that “Plaintiffs have not
adequately alleged any cause of action under which the sought relief may
be properly awarded”] [emphasis in original].)
ORDER

The court sustains defendant Equity Residential Management, LLC’s
demurrer to plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside, Tashiya Matthis, Raviear
Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire’s second and third causes of action. 
The court grants defendant Equity Residential Management, LLC’s motion
to strike the following portions of plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside,
Tashiya Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire’s Complaint: (1)
the requests for injunctive relief set forth in paragraph 61 of the Complaint
and paragraphs 9 and 10 of the prayer, and (2) the requests for declaratory
relief set forth (i) in paragraphs 1, 5, 47, 59, and 61, and (ii) in paragraph
8 of the prayer.  The court denies all
other relief requested in the motion. 
The court overrules defendant TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions,
Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside, Tashiya Matthis,
Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire’s first cause of action. 
The court sustains defendant TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions,
Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside, Tashiya Matthis,
Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire’s second and third causes of action.

The court grants defendant TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions,
Inc.’s motion to strike the following portions of plaintiffs James Brown, Mark
Burnside, Tashiya Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire’s
Complaint: (1) the request for injunctive relief set forth in paragraph 61 of
the Complaint and paragraphs 9-10 of the prayer, and (2) the request for
declaratory relief set forth in paragraph 8 of the prayer.  The court denies all other relief requested
in the motion.
The court grants plaintiffs James Brown, Mark Burnside, Tashiya
Matthis, Raviear Koppenhofer, and Elizabeth McGuire 20 days leave to file a
First Amended Complaint that cures the deficiencies set forth in connection
with this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
The court orders defendant Equity Residential Management, LLC to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 28, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court