 Case Number:  22STCV38146    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




cristina carrillo

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
county of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV38146




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   28, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel disclosure of
  police records, including investigative documents
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Cristina Carrillo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant County of Los Angeles
Motion to Compel Disclosure of Police Records, Including Investigative
Documents
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Cristina Carrillo (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint in this action on May 9, 2023, against defendant County of
Los Angeles (“Defendant”), alleging nine causes of action for (1) unlawful
retaliation (Lab. Code, § 1102.5); (2) failure to accommodate; (3) failure
to engage in the interactive process; (4) disparate treatment discrimination;
(5) harassment in violation of FEHA; (6) retaliation in violation of FEHA;        (7) failure to prevent harassment,
discrimination, or retaliation; (8) violation of the California Family Rights
Act; and (9) interference with pregnancy disability leave rights. 
Plaintiff now moves the court for an order, pursuant to Evidence Code
section 1043, directing Defendant to make available and produce documents that
are responsive to the following demand: any and all documents contained within
IAB’s investigative file for Case No. IV2556419, including interview
transcripts, interview audio recordings, investigative summaries, and
documentary and electronic evidence reviewed by the investigators.  (Simms Decl., ¶ 5.) 
LEGAL STANDARD
There
is a special two-step procedure for obtaining disclosure of peace or custodial
officer personnel records.¿ (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1011, 1019.)¿ First, the party seeking disclosure must file a motion that
includes all of the following:¿ 

Identification of the
     proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking
     discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are
     sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control of the
     records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or
     disclosure shall be heard.¿¿ 


A description of the type of
     records or information sought.¿¿ 


Affidavits showing good cause
     for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality
     thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and
     stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has
     the records or information from the records.¿¿ 

(Evid.
Code, § 1043, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
The “good cause” declaration must be sufficiently specific “to
preclude the possibility of [the movant] simply casting about for any helpful
information.”¿ (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.)¿ The
moving party need show only a “plausible factual foundation” for discovery --
i.e., a scenario of officer misconduct that might occur or could have occurred.
(Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1026; see also Blumberg v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1245, 1248 [“‘[T]he good cause
requirement embodies a “relatively low threshold” for discovery’ [citation],
under which a defendant need demonstrate only ‘a logical link between the
defense proposed and the pending charge’ and describe with some specificity
‘how the discovery being sought would support such a defense or how it would
impeach the officer’s version of the events’ [citation].”]; Becerrada v.
Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 409, 413 [“A showing of good cause is
measured by ‘relatively relaxed standards’ that serve to ‘insure the
production’ for trial court review of ‘all potentially relevant documents’”].)¿
A declaration by counsel, on information and belief, may be sufficient.¿ (People
v. Oppel (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1146, 1153, fn. 6.)¿¿ 
Second, if the court finds good cause, then an in camera examination
must be held.¿ (Slayton v. Superior Court (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 55,
61.)¿ After examining the records in camera, the trial court shall order
disclosure of peace officer personnel records that are “‘relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.’”¿ (People v. Mooc, supra,
26 Cal.4th at p. 1226.)¿ The court must exclude from disclosure “[f]acts sought
to be disclosed that are so remote as to make disclosure of little or no
practical benefit.”¿ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)(2).)¿ “In determining
relevance where the issue in litigation concerns the policies or pattern of
conduct of the employing agency, the court shall consider whether the
information sought may be obtained from other records maintained by the
employing agency in the regular course of agency business which would not
necessitate the disclosure of individual personnel records.”¿ (Evid. Code, §
1045, subd. (c).)¿ If disclosure is ordered, the court must also order that the
disclosed information may not be used “for any purpose other than a court
proceeding pursuant to applicable law.”¿ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd.
(e).)¿¿¿ 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff contends that there is good cause to disclose the documents
requested because (1) a Police of Equity Complaint was filed on her behalf with
the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department Intake Specialist Unit, in which Plaintiff
complained about the harassment, discrimination, and retaliation outlined in
Plaintiff’s complaint, and (2) the information sought by this motion (i)
relates to the IAB investigation initiated against Captain Jodi L. Hutak,
Sergeant Annie J. Walters, Deputy Stefani R. Cirino Garcia, and Ms. Blossie L.
Johnson, regarding the harassment, discrimination, and retaliation that
Plaintiff suffered, (ii) may be used to impeach individuals or contradict other
evidence presented by Defendant, and (iii) may lead to the discovery of other
facts regarding the wrongful conduct described in Plaintiff’s complaint.  (Simms Decl., ¶ 6; SAC ¶¶ 25, 26-28, 32,
36 [describing conduct by Captain Hutak and Sergeant Walters].)  Defendant contends that the request is
overbroad and ambiguous. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has established that the information
sought by this motion is material to Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant
discriminated against, harassed, and retaliated against her based on her
pregnancy-related disability, lactation needs, and the complaints that she made
to Defendant.  (Evid. Code, § 1043,
subd. (b)(3); Simms Decl., ¶ 6; SAC ¶¶ 1, 25-27, 31-32, 34.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has also stated her
reasonable belief that Defendant, as Plaintiff’s employer, is the governmental
agency that has custody of the records or information from the records.  (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3); Simms
Decl., ¶ 3.)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has established good cause for
the production of records described in Plaintiff’s notice of motion and
therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion. 
(Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b).) 
ORDER
            The
court grants plaintiff Cristina Carrillo’s motion to compel disclosure of
police records, including investigative documents.
            The
court orders the custodian of records for the County of Los Angeles to appear
and produce the documents set forth below for an in camera review by the court
on _____________, 2024, at 1:30 p.m., in Department 53. 
            The
court orders the custodian of records for the County of Los Angeles, or its
agents, to produce the following documents: 
1.     All
documents contained within IAB’s investigative file for Case No. IV2556419,
including, but not limited to, interview transcripts, interview audio
recordings, the identities of those performing the investigation and
interviews, investigative summaries, and documentary and electronic evidence
reviewed by the investigators.

The
court orders that all such documents shall be produced for an in camera
examination by the court.¿ The court will conduct an in camera examination of
the records to determine the relevance of the materials to this action.¿ (People
v. Gill (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 749.)¿ The scope of the in camera
examination will be governed by Evidence Code section 1045, subdivisions (b)
and (c).¿¿ 
The court
orders plaintiff Cristina Carrillo to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 28, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court