..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCP00290
Plaintiff's Name: Coalition for a Scenic Los Angeles
Defendant's Name: City of Los Angeles and All Vision, LLC
People-Names: None
Company-Names: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro), All Vision, LLC
Places: Los Angeles County, City of Los Angeles
Dates: September 26, 2024, December 29, 2023, January 29, 2024
Events: Adoption of ordinances, filing and posting of Notice of Determination (NOD), certification of Environmental Impact Report (EIR)
Money: None
Intentions: To challenge the adoption of ordinances allowing digital signs on properties owned by Metro
Facts: Metro certified an EIR for the Transportation Communication Network Program (TCN Program), which includes construction and operation of digital signs
Disputes: Whether Metro is a necessary and indispensable party in the action
Acts: Demurrer filed by City and All Vision, judicial notice granted
Agreements: NOD filed and posted, ordinances adopted
Laws: California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Public Resources Code, California Civil Procedure Code
Case Citations: Simonelli v. City of Carmel-by-the-Sea (2015), Tracy Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008), San Diego Navy Broadway Complex Coalition v. California Coastal Com. (2019), Save Our Bay, Inc. v. San Diego Unified Port Dist. (1996)
Statutes: Public Resources Code ยง 21108, Public Resources Code ยง 21152, California Civil Procedure Code ยง 389(a), Guidelines ยง 15094(a)
Roles: Judge, City of Los Angeles, All Vision, LLC, Metro, Coalition for a Scenic Los Angeles
Significant Statements:
* Metro is a necessary party because the ordinances provide an entitlement to Metro, which is different from the project applicant.
* Metro is an indispensable party because a judgment rendered in its absence would be prejudicial to it.
* The action should be dismissed for failure to name Metro as an indispensable party.
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling in a case brought by Coalition for a Scenic Los Angeles against the City of Los Angeles and All Vision, LLC. The City and All Vision have filed a demurrer, arguing that the petitioners did not name Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro) as a real party in interest. The judge has granted the demurrer and found that Metro is a necessary and indispensable party. The judge has also found that Metro is an indispensable party because a judgment rendered in its absence would be prejudicial to it. Therefore, the judge has ordered the action to be dismissed for failure to name Metro as an indispensable party.
