  Case Number:  19STCV40383    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Ibiere Seck and Defendant Seck Law, P.C.’s Motion to Amend Judgment is GRANTED.  
 
Background
 
On
November 7, 2019, Plaintiff The Cochran Firm California brought an action for
declaratory relief and abuse of process against its previous at-will employee, Defendant
Ibiere Seck. 
 
Plaintiffs The Cochran Firm California and Dunn Law, APC
(“Plaintiffs”) allege that Ibiere Seck departed the firm as of December 31,
2018, taking certain clients previously retained by Plaintiffs with her to her
private practice, Defendant Seck Law, P.C. Plaintiffs assert that “the need for declaratory relief
presented herein pertains to those cases and clients that Seck did not take
with her, and pertains to a case originally retained by [Plaintiffs], that
remained with [Plaintiffs] after Seck’s departure from [the firm], styled
Reddick v. LACMTA, Case No. BC660135.” (Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs seek:
 
“(1)
A Declaration that a December 13, document titled ‘Memorandum of Understanding’
(Exhibit A) does not create a valid fee-sharing agreement between COCHRAN and
SECK in the Reddick matter because client referenced in ‘Memorandum of
Understanding’ was never informed of any purported fee sharing agreement
between SECK and COCHRAN, and did not consent in writing, to any fee sharing
agreement, as required by Rules Prof. Conduct, Rule 2- 200;
 
(2)
A Declaration that in the Reddick matter, that SECK does not have the legal
authority to assert a lien on the proceeds of that case, on the grounds that
SECK, as a discharged employee of COCHRAN, does not have, and never has had, a
contract for the provision of legal services with John Reddick, the plaintiff
in the Reddick matter, (hereinafter referred to at ‘PLAINTIFF REDDICK’), who
is, and always has been, a client of COCHRAN.” (Complaint, ¶ 1.)
 
On
January 21, 2020, the court granted Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion as to the
second cause of action for abuse of process.
 
On
April 14, 2024, Defendants filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
            On July 13, 2020, the court denied Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Summary Judgment and granted Defendants’ Motion for Attorney’s Fees. 
 
            On October 13, 2020, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Seck
(“Cross-Complainant”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Brian J.
Dunn dba The Cochran Firm California (“Cross-Defendant”) for breach of contract.

 
            On January 21, 2021, the court denied Cross-Defendant’s anti-SLAPP
motion. 
            
            On February 10, 2021, Cross-Defendant filed an answer to the
cross-complaint.  
 
            On April 14, 2022, the court granted Cross-Complainant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment against Cross-Defendant. 
 
            On May 25, 2022, the court entered judgment for Cross-Complainant.

            
            On August 2, 2023, the California Court of Appeal affirmed
this court’s judgment. 
 
            On June 25, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed its first
Motion to Amend Judgment which the court took off calendar on September 6, 2024
due to non-appearance by either party. 
 
            On September 24, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed its second
Motion to Amend Judgment. As of October 16, 2024, no opposition or other
responding documents have been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own
motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as
to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either
party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (d).)  The court, “regardless of the lapse
of time, has inherent power to correct mistakes in its judgments or orders.
[citation] This power, however, is limited to mistakes which are not the result
of an exercise of judicial discretion.” (In re Sloan’s Estate (1963) 222
Cal.App.2d 283, 292.)  “Whether an error is judicial rather than clerical
depends up on whether it was the deliberate result of judicial reasoning and
determination. If an error, mistake or omission is the result of inadvertence,
but for which a different judgment would have been rendered, the error is
clerical and the judgment may be corrected to correspond with what it would
have been but for the inadvertence.” (Vallelunga v. Gomez (1951) 102
Cal.App.2d 374, 292-293 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Ibiere Seck and Defendant Seck Law, P.C. (“Moving Party”) move to correct the
name of Cross-Defendant Brian J. Dunn in the court’s judgment entered on May
25, 2024. 
 
Moving
Party argues that The Cochran Firm California (“Cochran Firm”) did not question
or dispute that is was the cross-defendant named in the cross-complaint.
(Motion, at p. 3.) Moving Party contends that the Cochran Firm only noted that
it had been erroneously sued as Brian J. Dunn and that the correct entity name
was Brian T. Dunn, a Professional Law Corporation twice in its answer and
appeal. (Ibid.) As such, Moving Party argues that the identity of the
Cross-Defendant was never in doubt as the Cochran Firm. (Ibid.)
 
However,
Moving Party alleges that at the judgment debtor examination of Brian T. Dunn
(“Dunn”), owner of the Cochran Firm, Dunn claimed that his corporation was not
the judgment debtor in this case. (Id., at p. 3, Lowe Decl., ¶ 2, Exh.
1.) Thus, the Moving Party seeks to correct the name of Dunn in the court’s
judgment to resolve any dispute over the correct identity of the
Cross-Defendant and Judgment Creditor in this case. (Id., at p. 3.) 
 
The
issue is whether the error here is clerical in nature and whether the court may
appropriately remedy the error. The court finds that the error here is clerical,
and the court may amend the judgment to correct it. Ultimately, the
cross-complaint was filed against the Cochran Firm explicitly and a judgment
was granted for Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ibiere Seck and against the Cochran
Firm. Since no judicial reasoning was involved and the error is clerical in
nature, the court can amend the judgment which does not correctly set forth Dunn’s
name. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Ibiere Seck and Defendant Seck Law, P.C.’s Motion to Amend Judgment is GRANTED.  