  Case Number:  21STCV17952    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  73 10/24/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ENCINAS, et al. v. HIKARI JAPANESE
RESTAURANT, et al. (21STCV17952)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Marc Grismer
(Law Office of Marc P. Grismer)
Counsel for
Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC/moving party: Fang Li (Horton,
Oberrecht & Kirkpatrick)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed by Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC on 07/11/2023)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 13, 2021, Plaintiffs Laurie Encinas and
Jesus Encinas filed this action against Defendants Hikari Japanese Restaurant, a.k.a. Sake
House by Hikari, a.k.a. Hikari Sushi Bar, an unknown entity; UBS Realty
Investors, LLC, a Massachusetts Limited Liability Company and Does 1 to 25. 
 
On June 15, 2021, Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC was named as Doe 1. 
 
On September 7,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Death of Plaintiff Laurie Encinas. 
 
On November 30, 2023, a First Amended Complaint
was filed by Plaintiffs Jesus Encinas, Priscilla Pamela Chey, Jesus Encinas,
Jr., Crystal Laurie Encinas, Jennifer Rose Encinas, and Jennifer Rose Encinas
on behalf of the estate of Laurie Encinas. 
 
This is an action for premises liability arising from a trip
and fall incident. Plaintiffs allege that on March 7, 2021, Laurie Encinas
attempted to enter the outdoor dining area of the “Sake House by Hikari Sushi Bar” (hereinafter “Hikari
Restaurant”) when she tripped and
fell due to a dangerous condition, an abrupt and exposed height differential of
approximately 1-inch-high where the concrete walkway and Hikari Restaurant’s
outdoor patio entryway threshold met (“subject entryway”). Plaintiffs further
allege that Laurie Encinas fell forward and struck her head on an umbrella
stand which caused serious head injuries requiring immediate medical
intervention. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for
(1) Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.
 
On July 11, 2023, Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC (“MTCI”) filed a motion for summary judgment, arguing:
·      
MTCI moves for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action for negligence and premises
liability. This motion is made on the grounds that MTCI owed Plaintiffs no duty
of care because the alleged defect in question was trivial and there were no
aggravating circumstances or factors that would make the alleged condition
dangerous.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that:
·       The defect in question was not trivial.
·       MTCI is Liable to Plaintiffs For The Unsafe Vertical Offset Due To
MTCI’s Failure to Warn Or Make Safe The Vertical Offset and Further Failure to
Reasonably Inspect and Repair This Unsafe Condition.
o  
The Condition on MTCI’s Property Created
an Unreasonable Risk of Harm
o  
MTCI Knew or Through The Exercise of
Reasonable Care Should Have Known of the Defective Condition’s Unreasonable
Risk of Harm
o  
MTCI Failed to Repair the Condition,
Protect Against Harm From the Condition, or Give Adequate Warning
·       The Subject Entryway’s Defect is a Question of Fact
 
Defendant MTCI did not file a reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or evidence
that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c,
subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe
the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's affidavits
liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the motion in
favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.)  “The court
focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The court seeks
to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material fact.”  (Johnson
v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 754;
internal citation omitted.)    "[S]ummary judgment cannot
be granted when the facts are susceptible [of] more than one reasonable
inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1378,
1392.) 
 
B.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ objections to Defendant MTCI’s evidence
as follows:
·      
Objection No. 1: Sustained (Lack of
foundation)
 
C.      Undisputed
Material Facts
 
On March 7,
2021, around lunchtime, Laurie Encinas fell around an opening in the outdoor
patio of the Hikari Restaurant. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1.) Laurie
Encinas alleged that her right foot tripped over an offset at the intersection
of the patio concrete flooring and the concrete walkway outside the patio. (UMF
2.) The height
differential at the offset was between approximately 15/16th of an inch (toward
right side) and 1 inch (toward left side) at the intersection of the patio
concrete flooring and the concrete walkway outside the patio. (UMF 11.) Right
outside the patio opening, there is a sign that says, “wait to be seated.”
(UMF 3.) Around the time of the accident, the patio had a swinging
gate at the opening and the gate was open. (UMF 4.) At the time of the accident, the patio opening was an entrance to
the Hikari Restaurant. (UMF 5.)
 
On or about
April 20, 2013, MTCI and Jhoon, Inc. dba Hikari Japanese Restaurant entered
into a 10 year lease agreement. (UMF 6.) Based
on the lease, MTCI is identified as the landlord and Jhoon, Inc. dba Hikari
Japanese Restaurant is identified as the tenant. (UMF 7.)
 
D.     First and
Second Causes of Action for Negligence and Premises Liability
 
The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.¿ (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) 
Accordingly, the Court considers Plaintiffs’ negligence and premises liability
causes of action together. 
 
Defendant MTCI
argues it did not owe a duty of care to Plaintiff because the alleged defect in question
was trivial and there were no aggravating circumstances or factors that would
make the alleged condition dangerous.
 
 “Property owners are required to maintain land
in their possession and control in a reasonably safe condition and to use due
care to eliminate dangerous conditions on their property.  But a property
owner is not liable for damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant
defect on its property.  The so-called ‘trivial defect doctrine’
recognizes that persons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are
not required to maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.  The duty
of care imposed on a property owner, even one with actual notice, does not
require the repair of minor defects.”  (Fajardo v. Dailey (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 221, 226 [cleaned up].)
 
“In limited
circumstances a court may determine a walkway defect is trivial as a matter of
law.  Where reasonable minds can reach only one conclusion—that there was
no substantial risk of injury—the issue is a question of law, properly resolved
by way of summary judgment.  But where sufficient evidence has been
presented so that reasonable minds may differ as to whether the defect is
dangerous, summary judgment is inappropriate.”  (Id. at p.
226.)  Courts have found that where a sidewalk slab is raised in elevation
by only 3/4 of an inch, such a ‘defect’ is not dangerous as a matter of
law.  (See Fielder v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719,
725 (listing cases that support the contention that “where a sidewalk slab is
raised in elevation by only about 3/4 of an inch, such a ‘defect’ is not
dangerous as a matter of law.”).)  “[W]hen the size of the depression begins
to stretch beyond one inch the courts have been reluctant to find that the
defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.”   (Id. at p.
726.) 
 
“California
Courts of Appeal typically follow a two-step analysis for determining whether a
sidewalk defect is trivial, i.e., not dangerous, as a matter of law.”  (Stack
v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 308 (Stack).) “First,
the court reviews evidence regarding the type and size of the defect.  If
that preliminary analysis reveals a trivial defect, the court considers
evidence of any additional factors such as the weather, lighting and visibility
conditions at the time of the accident, [and] the existence of debris or
obstructions, ....  If these additional factors do not indicate the defect
was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person, the court should
deem the defect trivial as a matter of law ....” (Stathoulis v. City of
Montebello (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 559, 567-68; see Nunez v. City of
Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 758 [adopting two-step framework];
Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105
[same].)  
 
The Court
notes that Stack, which is the most recent appellate court opinion on
the trivial defect doctrine, departs somewhat from the more
familiar two-step approach and adopts a “holistic,
multi-factor analysis.” (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 110.) Under such an analysis, a court considers the size of the defect
as one of many circumstances.  Additional factors include the nature and
quality of the defect, whether anything was obstructing or concealing the
defeat, the lighting and weather conditions at the time of the incident,
whether the defect has caused other accidents, and plaintiff’s familiarity with
the area.  (See Stack, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 56; Nunez, supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at pp. 757-58; Huckey, supra, 37
Cal.app.5th at p. 1105; Fielder, supra, 71
Cal.App.3d at p. 734.)  
 
a.       Defendant’s
burden
 
MTCI argues
the alleged dangerous condition is “trivial” as a matter of law.  In
support, MTCI points to the following undisputed facts: the height differential
of the offset at the intersection of the patio concrete flooring and the
concrete walkway outside the patio was between approximately 15/16th of an inch
(toward right side) and 1 inch (toward left side) (UMF 11); there were no
broken pieces or jagged edges in the area of the patio opening (UMF 12); there
was no dirt, debris or other material that would obstruct anyone’s view of the
offset (UMF 13); the accident occurred outdoors during
daytime (UMF 14); and at the time of the accident, there was
no unusual weather (UMF 15).
 
Whether
applying the Huckey two-step approach or the holistic, multi-factor
analysis under Stack, MTCI presents sufficient evidence to show
the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.  MTCI establishes the height
differential change of the offset was at the most an inch, which is generally
recognized as trivial. (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1107.)
Further, there is an absence of evidence of any additional factors such as the
weather, lighting, and visibility conditions at the time of the incident, or
the existence of debris or obstructions of the defect. Thus, at the first step
of the analysis, Defendant meets its burden to show there are no triable issue
of material fact.  The burden shifts.
 
b.      Plaintiffs’
burden
 
Plaintiffs
argue the height differential on the vertical offset was not a trivial defect.
The subject entryway presented an unreasonable risk of harm for pedestrians because
the vertical offset contained an exposed height differential in a foreseeable
path of pedestrian travel and there was no color differential between the
concrete slabs comprising the height differential to demarcate it’s exposed
height differential. (Pltfs’ Ex. 1.) Plaintiffs argue the subject height
differential was low enough to be difficult to perceive, but high enough to
cause Ms. Encinas to trip. Plaintiffs also assert that customers had previously
stubbed their toes or caught their foot on the vertical offset. In support,
Plaintiffs cite to the deposition testimony of Hikari’s former supervisor/lead
server Andrew Adame. Adame states that prior to Ms. Encinas’ incident, he was
aware of customers tripping, stumbling or otherwise catching their foot and
stubbing their toes on the threshold. (Adame Depo., 19:20-20:7; 38:7-15;
38:21-39:5; 40:8-14; 40:18-21; 52:20-24.) In addition, while MTCI contends that
Ms. Encinas had patronized the Hikari Restaurant on several occasions prior to
the incident, Plaintiffs assert Ms. Encinas had never seen or come in contact
with the subject entryway as she had entered the restaurant through a different
entryway the other times she had patronized the restaurant. (Laurie Encinas
Depo., 64:24-65:25; 68:7-8.)
 
Further,
Plaintiffs argue that the time of the accident, the subject entryway was
violative of the following relevant Codes and standards governing such
structures: 2016 California Building Code (“CBC”) §§ 1010.1.5; § 1010.1.7;
Americans
with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) regulations § 303.4; ASTM 1637-19 §§ 5.2.1;
5.2.4; 5.7.1; 5.7.2. While MTCI references the subject entryway as an “emergency
egress gate” and argues there are no applicable building code sections for this
patio opening because it is not considered a doorway, Plaintiffs assert that
the Hikari Restaurant used the subject entryway as a means of entrance and
egress for patio dining customers. In support, Plaintiffs point to the “wait to
be seated” signage. (UMF 3.) MTCI also states in its separate statement that “at
the time of the accident, the patio opening was an entrance to the Hikari
Restaurant.” (UMF 5; Adame Depo. 20:23-25.) Therefore, Plaintiffs assert the
subject area was required to meet the CBC standards, inclusive of Section 1010
– Doors, Gates, and Turnstiles. Specifically, Section 1010.1.5– Floor Elevation
states “There shall be a floor or landing on each side of a door. Landings
shall be level except for exterior landings, which are permitted to have a
slope not to exceed .25 unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (2-percent
slope.”) Section 1010.1.7 – Thresholds states “Thresholds at doorways shall not
exceed ½ inch (12.7 mm) above the finished floor or landing for other doors.
Raised thresholds and floor level changes greater than ¼ inch (6.4 mm) at
doorways shall be beveled with a slope not greater than one unit vertical in
two units horizontal (50-percent slope).” Here, it is
undisputed that the highest part of the floor level change at the
threshold of the subject entryway was approximately 1 inch, which is not
compliant with the building code.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs have carried their burden. In viewing the evidence most
favorable to Plaintiffs, the Court finds that the fact other customers had caught
their foot on the offset and the lack of visual contrast/color differential
between the concrete slabs at the offset are additional factors which could
indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful
person. (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104.) Further,
Plaintiffs have provided evidence that the subject entryway was considered an
entrance to the restaurant. Thus, there
are triable issues of material fact over whether MTCI violated the relevant
building codes for doorways and whether Plaintiff’s injuries were caused by Defendants’
violation. Accordingly, Defendant Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors,
LLC’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.