 Case Number:  23STCV00319    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  73 10/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
JOSEPH F. FARIVAR INVESTMENT GROUP,
INC., et al. v. HPC VINEBURN, LLC, et al. (23STCV00319)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Kenneth Ehrlich
(Elkins Kalt Weintraub Reuben Gartside LLP) 
Counsel for Defendants
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Highpoint Capital LLC/opposing party: Brian Ledger
(Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani, LLP)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR ENTRY OF FINAL
JUDGMENT IN CONFORMANCE WITH GRANT OF SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed on 10/02/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Entry of Final Judgment in Conformance with Grant of Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED. Plaintiffs
have established that an entry of final judgment is appropriate in the total
amount of $12,245,108.42 against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC and Meruelo
Maddux Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC, jointly and severally.
 
Plaintiffs
are to submit a Proposed Judgment within 10 days following the hearing on this
Motion.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Joseph
F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. (“FIG”) and Bordan Shoe Company, Inc. (“Bordan”)
filed this action against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC (“HPC Vineburn”); Nardon
Liquidating Corp.; Meruelo Maddux Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC  (“Meruelo Maddux”); Vineburn Property, LLC;
Benedetta Nardon, as an individual and as a Trustee of the Nardon Family Trust
dated October 27, 1982 and as Trustee of the
M Nardon Marital Trust; Marilyn N. Knoop, as an individual; and Patricia J.
Minni, as an individual and as Trustee of the Minni Family Trust dated April
18, 1996 f/b/o the Minni Family and as Trustee of the Minni Family Bypass
Trust.
 
HPC
Vineburn filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff Joseph
F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. On September 26, 2023, the Court
sustained Plaintiff’s demurrer to that Cross-Complaint, and HPC Vineburn did
not file an amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On June 28,
2024, Plaintiffs dismissed their claims against Defendants Marilyn N. Knoop and
Benedetta Nardon. On September 3, 2024, the Court granted Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marily Knoop’s Notice
of Settlement and Application to Determine Good Faith Settlement.
 
On February 28, 2024, filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of
action:
1.    
Continuing Nuisance;
2.    
Permanent Nuisance;
3.    
Continuing Trespass;
4.    
Permanent Trespass;
5.    
Negligence;
6.    
Negligence Per Se;
7.    
Contribution;
8.    
Equitable Indemnity; and 
9.    
Declaratory Relief.
 
On September 24, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication as to the First, Third, Fifth, Sixth, and Ninth causes of
action in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint against Defendants HPC Vineburn,
LLC and Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC.
 
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal as to
the following remaining claims against HPC and Maddux: permanent nuisance,
permanent trespass, contribution, and indemnity.
 
A.     Allegations
in the FAC
 
The FAC
alleges the following. 
 
Plaintiff
Joseph F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. is the owner of real property located
at 4335 Valley Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90032 ("4335 Valley
Boulevard" or "Farivar Property"). Plaintiff Bordan Shoe
Company, Inc. is the current lessee and occupant of 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendants
are current and former owners and/or operators of the real property at 1919
Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90032 (the "Nardon
Facility"). The Nardon Facility is the former location of the Nardon
Manufacturing Company, which conducted on-site metal fabrication. The Nardon
Facility is physically adjacent to 4335 Valley Boulevard. The Nardon Facility
is also upgradient from 4335 Valley Boulevard, meaning that groundwater flows
from the Nardon Facility toward 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendants
and/or their predecessors in interest caused or permitted hazardous substance contamination
to the soil, soil vapor, and groundwater at the Nardon Facility. Contaminated
groundwater at the Nardon Facility then migrated, and continues to migrate, to
the groundwater beneath the Farivar Property.
 
Plaintiffs
bring this action to recover damages and other appropriate relief resulting
from the migration of contamination from the Nardon Facility to the Farivar
Property.
 
B.     Plaintiffs’ Instant
Motion for Entry of Final Judgment in Conformance with Grant of Summary
Adjudication 
 
On
October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Entry of Final Judgment in Conformance with Grant of
Summary Adjudication, arguing:
·      
On September 24, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication. The Court’s order (the “Order”) granted summary
adjudication in Plaintiffs’ favor on five (5) causes of action: (1) Continuing
Nuisance, (2) Continuing Trespass, (3) Negligence, (4) Negligence Per Se, and
(5) Declaratory Relief.1 The Court held that Plaintiffs’ established their
burden for each element of those claims and that Defendants HPC Vineburn LLC
(“HPC”) and Meruelo Maddux Properties-1919 Vineburn Street, LLC (“Maddux”, and
collectively “Defendants”) failed to show any material dispute of fact.
·      
Following the grant of summary adjudication of these claims,
nothing remains for the Court to adjudicate, and final judgment is necessary on
these claims. As the Court has made all necessary determinations to enter final
judgment for this suit, Plaintiffs request that this Court enter the Proposed
Order of Final Judgment.
·      
Following the grant of summary adjudication, Plaintiffs requested
that Defendants stipulate to entry of judgment in conformance with the Court’s
Order. Decl. of Sean A. McCormick ¶ 2. Defendants declined, claiming that
“[t]he Court’s ruling did not determine the amount of damages, as it is to be
determined at trial; thus, any Judgment at this stage is premature,
inappropriate, and certainly not part of this ruling.” Id.
·      
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal as to
the following remaining claims against HPC and Maddux: permanent nuisance,
permanent trespass, contribution, and indemnity. Accordingly, there are no
remaining issues to adjudicate as to HPC and Maddux besides entry of final
judgment pursuant to the grant of summary adjudication.
·      
Thus, by ruling that Plaintiffs’ met their burden of proof, the
Court held, as a matter of law, Plaintiffs suffered $11,971,887 in damages.
Order at 15-16. Entry of judgment in Plaintiffs’ favor for $11,971,887 remains
appropriate.
·      
Plaintiffs Have an Entitlement To Prejudgment Interest From The
Date Of Filing The Motion. Plaintiffs have calculated this amount as
$273,221.42, as of the day of filing this Motion. See McCormick Decl. ¶ 3.
·      
Plaintiffs Are Entitled To Recover Their Costs. The Proposed
Judgment awards Plaintiffs their costs, in an amount to be determined nunc pro
tunc, following Plaintiffs’ submission of their memorandum of costs.
 
Defendant
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Cross-Defendant Highpoint Capital LLC filed an opposition,
arguing: 
·      
The Court’s ruling on Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication
(“MSA”) does not provide a basis for granting final judgment in this matter for
a number of reasons: (1) the Court made a determination that Plaintiffs showed there
are damages, but made no ruling as to the scope or amount of damages; (2) the
scope and amount of damages remains a disputed material fact because Defendant
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Cross-Defendant Highpoint Capital LLC (collectively
“HPC”) submitted into evidence an expert declaration from Dr. Adam Love,
wherein Dr. Love opined that the cost to remediate the contamination would be
approximately $5 million (assuming Plaintiffs’ expert’s assumptions regarding
appropriate remediation technologies are correct); (3) HPC’s affirmative
defenses have not yet been adjudicated.
·      
Plaintiffs’ MSA did not seek summary adjudication of any of HPC’s
thirty-one affirmative defenses. Thus, HPC’s affirmative defenses that are not
barred by the Court’s MSA Order, remain pending following the Order, and should
be at issue in the trial.
·      
The Scope Of The Court’s MSA Order Was Limited To Findings That
Plaintiffs Met Their Initial Burden On Liability Elements, And Nothing More.
·      
In sum, there are many issues that will yet need to be adjudicated
at trial. Plaintiff is not Entitled to Prejudgment Interest.
·       Plaintiffs’
Motion to Recover Costs is Premature.
 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply, arguing:
·       HPC Improperly Seeks Reconsideration of the Summary Adjudication Ruling
·       As a matter of law, the Court necessarily decided damages, because
summary adjudication cannot reserve damages for trial. 
·       HPC contends that its affirmative defenses are preserved for trial, and
that Plaintiffs have only established their “initial burden” (i.e. liability).
HPC is wrong. By moving for summary adjudication on their claims, Plaintiffs
put at issue their full causes of action and all of HPC’s affirmative defenses
to those causes of action. The Court necessarily adjudicated HPC’s affirmative
defenses when HPC failed to create a triable issue of fact on them.
 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC filed a
notice of joinder to Defendant HPC Vineburn, LLC’s
Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Entry of Judgment. 
 
On
October 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an objection to Defendant
Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919
Vineburn Street, LLC’s Notice of Joinder arguing that the joinder is untimely. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.     Timeliness of
Joinder
 
As an initial
matter, the Court notes that Defendant Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC’s joinder is
untimely. 
 
Any
oppositions, and joinders to such opposition, were due nine court days before
the hearing. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 1005(b) (“All papers opposing a motion so
noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least
nine court days…before the hearing.”).)
 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC filed a
notice of joinder to Defendant HPC Vineburn, LLC’s
Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Entry of Judgment. The hearing in this
matter is set for October 24, 2024. Thus, Defendant
Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919
Vineburn Street, LLC’s joinder should have been filed and served by October 11,
2024. 
 
Therefore,
the Court will disregard Defendant Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC’s joinder because
it is untimely. 
 
B.     Legal
Standard 
 
A judgment is the final determination of the parties’ rights in an
action. CCP §577. It terminates the litigation between the parties, and leaves
no issue for further consideration by the court other than questions of
enforcement or compliance. (Nave v. Taggart (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1173,
1177.)
 
“California has adopted the ‘one judgment rule.’ This rule
mandates that under California procedure there is ordinarily only one final
judgment in an action. A judgment is final when it terminates the litigation
between the parties on the merits of the case. [Citations.]” (Lemaire v. All
City Employees Assn. (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 106, 109.)
 
C.     Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
move for an entry of final judgment in conformance with the grant of summary
adjudication on their claims.
 
On September
24, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to
the First, Third, Fifth, Sixth, and Ninth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC and Meruelo Maddux
Properties-1919 Vineburn Street, LLC. On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
request for dismissal as to the following remaining claims against HPC and
Maddux: Second cause of action for permanent nuisance, Fourth cause of action
for permanent trespass, Seventh cause of action for contribution, and Eighth
cause of action for indemnity.
 
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a proposed judgment following
the grant of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication. When a court grants
summary adjudication, “a final judgment shall not be entered on a motion for
summary judgment [or adjudication] before the termination of the action, but
the final judgment shall, in addition to any matters determined in the action,
award judgment as established by the summary proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c (k).) Plaintiffs assert that following the dismissal of their remaining
claims, there are no remaining issues to adjudicate against Defendants HPC and
Maddux. Thus, as established by Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication,
Plaintiffs are seeking final judgment against Defendants HPC and Maddux,
jointly and severally, in the total amount of $12,245,108.42. This includes
interest thereon at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the date of
entry of this Judgment until paid, calculated as follows: $11,971,887.00 for
compensatory damages plus $273,221.42 for prejudgment interest. 
 
Defendant HPC filed an opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Entry of
Final Judgment on the following grounds: (1) the Court made a
determination that Plaintiffs showed there are damages, but made no ruling as
to the scope or amount of damages, and thus, the scope and amount of damages
remains a disputed material fact; and (2) HPC’s affirmative defenses have not
yet been adjudicated.
 
a.     Damages
 
HPC argues
that the issue of damages remains to be decided at trial. HPC asserts that the
Court’s order granting summary adjudication was limited to findings that
Plaintiffs met their initial burden on liability elements, but the scope and
amount of damages was not determined. 
 
However, the
Court disagrees as courts may not grant summary adjudication to a plaintiff on
liability while reserving damages for trial, if damages constitute an element
of the cause of action. “May a plaintiff seek summary adjudication of liability
only, leaving the resolution of damages to a later trial? The statutory
language mandates the question be answered in the negative. A plaintiff can
obtain summary adjudication of a cause of action only by proving ‘“each element
of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on that cause of
action.”’ As damages are an element of a breach of contract cause of action
(Citation.), a plaintiff cannot obtain judgment on a breach of contract cause
of action in an amount of damages to be determined later.” (Paramount
Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.)
 
While HPC
argues that the Court’s order states “Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount
to be determined at trial,” the Court notes that the quoted text refers to a
summarization of Plaintiffs’ allegations. (Court’s 9/24/24 Order, p. 18.) In
fact, the Court’s Order states that HPC and Maddux failed to present admissible
evidence to raise an issue of material fact as to Plaintiffs’ claimed damages. (Court’s
9/24/24 Order, p. 16.)
 
HPC also
argues in their opposition that it submitted evidence of damages through their
expert and, therefore, created a disputed issue of material fact. However, as
stated above, the Court already ruled on the issue of damages, thus, HPC’s
argument improperly seeks reconsideration. As discussed above, the Court found
that HPC and Maddux failed to present admissible evidence to raise an issue of
material fact as to Plaintiffs’ claimed damages. (Court’s 9/24/24 Order, p. 16.)
As the Court stated in its Order, HPC did not sufficiently authenticate
evidence that it, and its expert, relied upon. (Court’s 9/24/24 Order, p. 15.) For
example, HPC submitted a Permit to Operate issued by the South Coast Air
Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”). (Ibid.) However, HPC failed to
provide a declaration from an SCAQMD custodian to accompany the records, and provided
no evidence as to how the records came to exist or were obtained. (Ibid.)

 
As HPC
concedes, Plaintiffs submitted evidence of their damages in the amount of
$11,971,887 through the declaration of their expert Steven Luis. When granting
summary adjudication, the Court found that Plaintiffs’ claimed damages,
including their amount, was established. 
 
b.     Affirmative
Defenses
 
Next, HPC
argues that its affirmative defenses remain to be adjudicated at trial. HPC argues
that Plaintiffs failed to address any of HPC’s affirmative defenses in their
Motion for Summary Adjudication. 
 
However, that
argument misses the mark as a plaintiff moving for summary adjudication has no
burden to do so. (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(1); Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564-565.) In
making this argument, HPC focuses on Code Civ. Proc. §437c’s requirement that a
motion for adjudication must completely dispose of an affirmative defense. This
ignores the fact that Section 437c also permits adjudication of a cause of
action. Therefore, to the extent Plaintiffs met their burden of establishing their
causes of action, the burden shifted to HPC to show a triable issue of material
fact. This could be done by establishing an affirmative defense. However, the
Court found that HPC failed to carry its burden, therefore, HPC failed to show
any triable fact exists as to its affirmative defenses. Thus, HPC’s affirmative
defenses are necessarily already adjudicated, and nothing is reserved for
trial. 
 
D.     Costs 
 
HPC argues
that Plaintiffs are not entitled to recover costs. 
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1032 allows for the prevailing party to recover
costs in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1032.) A “prevailing
party” is defined as the party with a net monetary recovery. (Id.)
 
Here, upon
entry of judgment, Plaintiffs will be the prevailing party and will be entitled
to costs. Therefore, it is appropriate to include an award of costs in the
judgment, with the amount to be inserted post-judgment. (Rule of Court 3.1700(b)(4) (“After the time has passed for a
motion to strike or tax costs or for determination of that motion, the clerk
must immediately enter the costs on the judgment”); Code of Civil Procedure §
685.090 (“Costs are added to and become a part of the judgment”).)
 
E.     Prejudgment
Interest
 
HPC also
argues that the Final Judgment should not include an award of prejudgment
interest.
 
California
Civil Code section 3287 provides for prejudgment interest for damages that are
certain or capable of being made certain by calculation. (See Civ. Code §
3287(a).)  
 
Whether a
defendant is liable for prejudgment interest under Civil Code §3287(a) depends
on whether “defendant¿actually know[s] the amount owed or from
reasonably available information could the defendant have computed that
amount.”  (Duale v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
718, 729 [citing Children's Hosp. v. Bonta¿(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 740,
774, emphasis in original].) “The statute . . . does not authorize prejudgment
interest where the amount of damage, as opposed to the determination of
liability, depends upon a judicial determination based upon conflicting evidence
and¿it is not ascertainable from truthful data supplied by the claimant to his
debtor. Thus,¿where the amount of damages cannot be resolved except by verdict
or judgment, prejudgment interest is not appropriate.” (Id. [citations,
quotations, and emphasis omitted].) 
 
The test for
determining certainty under section 3287(a) is whether the defendant knew the
amount of damages owed to the claimant or could have computed that amount from
reasonably available information. (Howard v. American National Fire Ins. Co.
(2010) 187 Cal. App. 4th 498, 535-536.) Uncertainty as to liability is
irrelevant and a dispute concerning liability does not preclude prejudgment
interest in a civil action. (Id.) 

Damages will be deemed "capable of being made certain by calculation"
if the amount due can be determined by reference to a fixed standard, e.g., a
payment schedule, a readily ascertainable market value, or data supplied by
plaintiff to defendant. (Marine Terminals Corp. v. Paceco (1983) 145
Cal. App. 3d 991, 996.) In Marine Terminals, the Court found that when
the plaintiff submitted invoices to the defendant, the plaintiff made its
damages known to defendant and rendered them “certain” for the purposes of
section 3287. (Id.)  
 
Here, an
award of prejudgment interest is appropriate. Since Plaintiffs included
admissible evidence of their amount of claimed damages, and the Court found HPC
failed to present admissible evidence to raise an issue of material fact, damages
were certain and calculable at the time of filing the motion. (Court’s 9/24/24 Order,
p. 16.) 
 
In sum, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for Entry of Final Judgment in
Conformance with Grant of Summary Adjudication. Plaintiffs have
established that an entry of final judgment is appropriate in the total amount
of $12,245,108.42 against Defendants HPC and Maddux, jointly and severally,
consisting of $11,971,887.00 for compensatory damages plus $273,221.42 for
prejudgment interest.
 

DISPOSITION 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Entry of
Final Judgment in Conformance with Grant of Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. Plaintiffs
have established that an entry of final judgment is appropriate in the total
amount of $12,245,108.42 against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC and Meruelo
Maddux Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC, jointly and
severally.
 
Plaintiffs are to submit a
Proposed Judgment within 10 days following the hearing on this Motion.