 Case Number:  23STCV31024    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  73 10/24/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SUPERSTAR MONITORING LLC, et al. v. SHARP
GROUP LLC, et al. (23STCV31024)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Suzanne
Rand-Lewis (Gary Rand & Suzanne E. Rand-Lewis, Professional Law
Corporations) 
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Corine Zygelman
(Murchison & Cumming LLP)
 
(1)   DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF annemarie
baranik’s RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 10/01/24)
(2)   DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF annemarie
baranik’s RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE); REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS (filed 9/30/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The
Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
and Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants in the amount
of $1,807.26. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel
within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Superstar Monitoring LLC;
Annmarie Baranik (“Baranik”); Raymond Anthony Lerma; Samantha Brown; Adrian
Napolitano and Roman Moreno filed this premises liability action against Defendants
Sharp Group LLC and Rozita Natanzi. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges the following causes of action
against the Defendants: (1) Breach of Express and Implied Contract; (2) Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing/Breach of Express and Implied
Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment, Trespass, Nuisance; (3) Nuisance; (4) Fraud,
Negligent Misrepresentation, Concealment; (5) Negligence – Premises Liability;
(6) Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Negligent Management; (7) Violation of
Business and Professions Code §17200; (8) Violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies
Act; and (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiffs were
tenants/occupants of the subject premises, at Defendants’ Oakridge Plaza with
the street address of 14336 Ventura Boulevard. Plaintiff Baranik was the lessee
of the premises. Defendants entered into a written lease with Plaintiff Baranik,
which provided for her to have the exclusive use of and to occupy 1,117 square
feet of retail space, parking and amenities located at the premises for the use
of her business Superstar Monitoring LLC, and her employees, occupants and
clientele. Defendants breached the lease and their duties to Plaintiffs,
including failing to remediate water intrusion on the premises which caused the
premises to be unfit for use, unhealthy and unsafe.
 
On September 30, 2024 and October 1, 2024, Defendants filed a
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and a Motion to
Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s
Responses to Requests for Documents (Set One), arguing:
·       Counsel for
Defendants provided six extensions over the three-month period in which to
provide the responses. Despite the multiple extensions given, and notice by
counsel for Defendants that they would have no choice but to file a motion to
compel if responses were not served, counsel for Plaintiff filed one single
omnibus objection for all Plaintiffs as to all request for production of
documents and all form interrogatories. 
·       Defendants
contend the omnibus objections were improper and made in bad faith.
·       Defendants
requests sanctions in the sum of $342 for each motion.
 
Plaintiff filed a combined opposition to both motions, arguing
that Defendants failed to meet and confer and failed to file a Separate
Statement. Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendants in the sum of $1,807.26
 
Defendants filed replies arguing that Plaintiff did not sufficiently
provide responses because the responses were only blanket objections, thus
there was no need to meet and confer. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Procedural
Issues
 
First, the
Court notes that although Defendants’
motions are styled as motions to compel initial responses, they would in fact be
motions to compel further responses.
 
Defendants served their discovery requests on June 17, 2024. Defendants
contend that they granted Plaintiff multiple extensions to respond. (Nusbaum
Decl., ¶¶ 4-11.) On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff served omnibus objections to
Defendants’ discovery requests. (Nusbaum Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. H.) Therefore, Plaintiff had served
responses to the initial discovery requests, even if the responses consisted of
only objections. Thus, Defendants’ motions are in fact motions to compel
further responses. 
 
a.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to
compel further responses “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b); 2031.310, subd.
(b).)  The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  “[A] reasonable and good
faith attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering with
[opposing] counsel….  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt to
talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.”  (Clement
v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294.)  “A determination of
whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate involves the exercise of
discretion.”  (Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1006, 1016, internal ellipses omitted.)  Where a party fails to make any
real effort at informal resolution, a particularly egregious failure may
justify an immediate and outright denial of further discovery.  (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433-34, citing Townsend v.
Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1437.)   
 
Here, Defendants failed to file a meet and confer
declaration. Defendants argue in their reply that they were not obligated to
meet and confer as Plaintiff only served unmeritorious objections. The Court
disagrees. Even if Plaintiff’s responses were unmeritorious, Defendants were
still obligated to file a meet and confer declaration. 
 
Defendants also contend that even if they were required to meet
and confer over those legal issues, the Court is allowed to evaluate whether,
from the perspective of a reasonable person in the position of the discovering
party, additional effort appeared likely to bear fruit. (Clement v. Alegre
(2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1277, 1285.) Here, the Court finds that Defendants
should have attempted to meet and confer, and thus, have failed to satisfy
their meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b); 2031.310, subd. (b).) 
 
b.     Separate
Statement
 
Motions to compel further responses must be accompanied by a separate
statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) A properly-prepared
Separate Statement enables both the parties and the Court to accurately analyze
relevance and objections. The substantial rights of the parties are affected
when there is no separate statement. Here, Defendants did not file
separate statements.
 
Due to these procedural deficiencies, the Court DENIES
Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
and Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
B.     Sanctions
 
As stated in
Section 2023.030 (a), the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that
one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising
that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. 
 
Further, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand
or interrogatory, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code
of Civil Procedure §2031.310(h), §2030.300(d).)
 
Here, both parties seek monetary sanctions. Defendants request
sanctions in the sum of $342 for each motion. Plaintiff requests sanctions in
the sum of $1,807.26. Since the Court denies Defendants’ motions, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Plaintiff’s counsel states he has and will
spend a total of four hours on opposing Defendants’ motions at a rate of $450
per hour and costs in the amount of $7.26. (Rand-Lewis Decl. ¶ 25.) The Court awards Plaintiff
sanctions in the amount of $1,807.26.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
and Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annemarie Baranik’s responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants in
the amount of $1,807.26. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of the date of this order. 