 Case Number:  23STCV16161    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling 
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
21, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  June 2, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Linda Mansolillo v. GRAIL, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV16161





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH DEFENDANT GRAIL LLC’S DEPOSITION 
SUBPOENA
FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS TO 
ROCHE
DIAGNOSTICS CORPORATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Linda Mansolillo 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant GRAIL, LLC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is an employment discrimination and retaliation action.
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff, Linda Mansolillo, filed a Complaint against
Defendant, GRAIL LLC (sued as “GRAIL, Inc.”), for (1) Harassment in Violation
of FEHA, (2) Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (3) Retaliation in Violation
of FEHA, (4) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment in Violation of
the Fair Employment & Housing Act, (5) Violation of California Equal Pay
Act, (6) Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of California Equal Pay
Act, (7) Whistleblower Retaliation, and (8) Labor Code Retaliation.  The action arises from Plaintiff’s employment
with Defendant from 2020 to 2022.
 
            On February
9, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with a Notice to Consumer for  deposition Subpoena for the Production of
Business Records to Roche Diagnostics Corporation (the “Roche Subpoena”).  Plaintiff worked with Roche from 2004-2012.
            
On February 28, 2024, the parties participated in an
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) regarding issues with the Roche Subpoena,
among others.  The issues were not
resolved.  The court ordered Counsel for
Plaintiff to file a Notice of Outcome regarding discovery.  
 
On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Notice of Outcome which
stated in relevant part, “Plaintiff will produce all documents and
communications from other employers she worked for during her career as a
healthcare professional, including employment agreements with those employers,
from March 9, 2010 (10 years before the start of her employment with GRAIL)
through the present, located after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry.”   
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash
Defendant’s deposition subpoena for production of business records to Roche.  Plaintiff does not seek sanctions.
 
            Defendant
filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands such as
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1.)¿ 
III.       DISCUSSION
In the Notice of Outcome filed on March
5, 2024, Plaintiff noted the look back period would be ten years calculated
from the start of Plaintiff’s employment with GRAIL.  On March 4, 2024, prior to the filing of the
Notice of Outcome, Plaintiff’s Counsel emailed Defense Counsel to express
disagreement with Defendant’s edits to the Notice of Outcome.  That disagreement involved the commencement
of the 10-year look-back period.  Defendant
took the position the time runs from the commencement of Plaintiff’s hire by
GRAIL.  Plaintiff took the position the
time commences from the current date.  Plaintiff
offered a compromise of a look-back period commencing from the date of
Plaintiff’s separation from GRAIL.  To
avoid burdening the court, however, Plaintiff’s Counsel accepted the revisions
without prejudice to her position GRAIL should withdraw the Roche
Subpoena.  (See Atteberry Decl., Ex. 6.)
Based on the foregoing, the central
issue to be decided is:  when should the
look-back period commence?  There are
various options identified by the parties. 
The court rules out both the present day because that is a moving target,
and date of the incident because, in the context of this case, that is too
vague.  That leaves either the date of
hire with GRAIL (February 2020) or the date of separation (2022).  Plaintiff properly points out that the Form
Interrogatories use different time periods: a look back for ten years prior to
the time of the response to the interrogatory with respect to any law suits
filed by the employee against any employer (Emp. FROG 209; 210); a look back
for five years prior to the date of the incident to identify prior employers (General
FROG 2.6).  
The court selects the date of hire
as the look back period.  The general
purpose of the discovery request is to learn about relevant issues concerning
Plaintiff’s employment prior to being hired by GRAIL.  And it makes little sense to include the time
Plaintiff worked at GRAIL because, obviously, this time period will not yield any
prior employment information.  To include
the time Plaintiff worked at GRAIL would reduce the relevant look-back period to
eight years, not ten.    
The Roche Subpoena seeks records
from 2004 to 2012.  This time period exceeds
the ten- year look back period.  
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the motion to quash the Roche Subpoena
is GRANTED in part.  The court modifies
the Roche Subpoena to seek records from February 2012 to February 2022.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   May 21, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            