  Case Number:  19STCV23201    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 21, 2024                                                                  TRIAL
DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         Tyler Evans v. AIDS
Healthcare Foundation
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV23201
 





















 
MOTION
TO STRIKE AND/OR TAX 
DEFENDANT’S
MEMORANDUM OF COSTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Tyler Evans 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On July 2, 2019, Plaintiff Tyler Evans (“Evans” or
“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
(“AHF” or “Defendant”).  On October 9,
2019, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The FAC asserted causes of action for: 
 
1.     
Violation of Labor Code §
1102.5; 
2.     
Violation of Health & Safety
Code § 1278.5; 
3.     
Violation of Business &
Professions Code § 510; 
4.     
Sexual Orientation Discrimination in
Violation of Government Code § 12940, et seq.;
5.     
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy; 
6.     
Breach of Written Contract;
7.     
Breach of the Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 
8.     
Failure to Provide Employment
Records in Violation of Labor Code §§ 226 & 1198.5. 
                         
Evans worked as AHF’s Director of Infectious Disease and
Medical Director from December 16, 2016 to September 27, 2018.  He alleged that he was wrongfully terminated
after complaining to AHF senior management about conduct he believed was
unlawful and threatened patient safety.  In
retaliation, AHF falsely accused Evans of communicating with other AHF
employees in a sexual nature.  Evans also
alleged the false accusations were motivated by Evans’s heterosexuality. 
 
            Procedural
Background
 
On July 6, 2023, AHF moved for summary adjudication on the
ground that Evans’s termination was based upon good faith, non-retaliatory and
non-discriminatory reasons.  The motion
was set for September 21, 2023.
 
Prior to the hearing on its Motion for Summary Adjudication,
AHF discovered a document which it believed Evans had falsified: an email that
Evans asserted as a pre-termination whistleblower complaint from him to the Los
Angeles County of Department of Public Health. 
On September 13, 2023, AHF met and conferred with Evans about the
document and propounded written discovery concerning the altered e-mail document.  AHF also demanded to inspect the email in its
native file format.  
 
On September 19, 2023, AHF filed an ex parte application to
continue the hearing for the Motion for Summary Adjudication.  The court granted the ex parte application.
 
Evans did not produce the email in its native file format or
agree to the inspection of his email account or computer.  Instead, on September 26, 2023, Evans
dismissed this action without prejudice.
 
On October 11, 2023, AHF filed its Memorandum of Costs as
the prevailing party.
 
On October 30, 2023, Evans filed this Motion to Strike
and/or Tax Costs.
 
On March 1 and 4, 2024, AHF
filed three motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to AHF’s Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Six, Requests for Admission, Set Three, Form
Interrogatories, Set Four, and Inspection Demand, Set Two.
 
On April 19, the court
denied AHF’s motions to compel further responses.
 
On May 8, 2024, AHF filed an opposition.  
 
On May 15, 2024, Evans replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            A
party challenging the amounts claimed may file a motion to tax costs, which
must be served and filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum.¿ If the
cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code
of Civil Procedure section 1013. If the cost memorandum was served
electronically, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(4).¿ (Cal. Rules of Court., rule
3.1700(b)(1).)¿ “Unless objection is made to the entire cost memorandum, the
motion ... must refer to each item objected to by the same number and appear in
the same order as the corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of
costs and must state why the item is objectionable.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1700(b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The memorandum of cost is a
verified statement by the party, attorney, or agent that the costs are correct
and were necessarily incurred in the case.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a)(1).)¿ “If
the items appear to be proper charges, the verified memorandum is prima facie
evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein listed were necessarily
incurred by the defendant, and the burden of showing that an item is not
properly chargeable or is unreasonable is upon the [objecting party].”¿ (Oak
Grove School Dist. v. City Title Ins. Co. (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 678, 698.)¿
“[I]f the correctness of the memorandum is challenged either in whole or in
part by the affidavit or other evidence of the contesting party, the burden is
then on the party claiming the costs and disbursements to show that the items
charged were for matters necessarily relevant and material to the issues
involved in the action.”¿ (Id. at p. 699.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5 lists the costs that are recoverable.¿ Section 1033.5 provides: “(1)
Costs are allowable if incurred, whether or not paid. (2) Allowable costs shall
be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation. (3) Allowable costs shall be
reasonable in amount. (4) Items not mentioned in this section ... may be
allowed ... in the court’s discretion.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1033.5, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
            However,
an award of costs in a FEHA action is governed by a different statute.  A prevailing defendant in a FEHA action may
be awarded fees and costs only when the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought,
or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.  (Gov.
Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).)  “By making a cost award discretionary
rather than mandatory, Government Code section 12965[(c)(6)] expressly excepts
FEHA actions from Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b)’s mandate for a cost
award to the prevailing party.”  (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent
Fire Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 105.)  In determining whether an
action is frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless, the court must not “engage in
post hoc reasoning by concluding that, because a plaintiff did not
ultimately prevail, his action must have been unreasonable or without
foundation. . . . Even when the law or the facts appear questionable or
unfavorable at the outset, a party may have an entirely reasonable ground for
bringing suit.”  (Christiansburg Garment
Co. v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (1978) 434 U.S. 412,
421-422.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
            AHF seeks costs and expenses in the sum of $26,042.85. 
(See Memorandum of Costs.) Plaintiff argues the costs should be stricken on three
principal grounds: (1) AHF cannot show that Plaintiff’s FEHA action was
unreasonable, frivolous, vexatious, or that he brought or continued litigating
the matter without an objective basis for believing his claims had merit, (2) costs
have not been allocated between the FEHA and non-FEHA claims, and (3) the facts
supporting the FEHA and non-FEHA claims overlap and are thus inextricably
intertwined.  
 
            In
opposition, AHF argues that this is not a FEHA action and further, Plaintiff’s
lone FEHA cause of action was frivolous and not inextricably intertwined with
Plaintiff’s other claims.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the task before the court is to determine (1) whether this is
a “FEHA action”; (2) whether Plaintiff’s FEHA claim was frivolous, and (3) if
Plaintiff’s FEHA claim was not frivolous, whether the FEHA and non-FEHA
claims are inextricably intertwined?[1]
 
1.      First Issue: Whether This is a “FEHA
Action”
 
Plaintiff alleged eight causes of
action, one of which is a FEHA claim for sexual orientation discrimination.  AHF argues that a lone FEHA cause of action does
transform the case into a “FEHA action.” 
And if it is not a FEHA Action, AHF is entitled to a mandatory award of
costs as the prevailing party under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032.  
 
Implicit in AHF’s argument is that
a FEHA action constitutes something more than one FEHA claim.  Case law does not support AHF’s
position.  As AHF would have it, a “FEHA
action” must include more than one FEHA claim. 
And how many might that be?  No
California Court of Appeal decision has adopted AHF’s more than one cause of
action test. 
 
Here, Plaintiff asserted a FEHA
claim.  For lack of a better term, this
is a FEHA action.  Further, because
Plaintiff dismissed his FAC, which included the FEHA claim, AHF is the
prevailing defendant.  Therefore, AHF may
obtain discretionary costs as provided under Government Code section 12965,
subdivision (c)(6).
 
2.      Second Issue: Whether Plaintiff’s
FEHA Claim Was Frivolous 
 
As the prevailing defendant in a FEHA action, AHF has the
burden to show Plaintiff’s FEHA claim was frivolous.  (See Neeble-Diamond, supra, 99
Cal.App.5th at p.557 [“when the defense prevails in a FEHA action, it has no
automatic right to recover costs under section 1032; instead, it must move the
court to make a discretionary award of such costs, based in part on a specific
finding that the action was frivolous.”].)  No doubt, Plaintiff’s case was primarily a
whistleblower action.  But that, in and
of itself, does not make the FEHA claim frivolous.  The court looks to the law and facts to make
that determination.
 
            FEHA
discrimination claims are subject to the McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973)
411 U.S. 792 (McDonnell Douglas) burden-shifting
analysis.  (Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th
297.)   First, the plaintiff-employee has the burden of establishing
a prima facie case of discrimination.  (Guz
v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354.) The plaintiff
satisfies this burden by proving that “(1) he was a member of a protected
class, (2) he was qualified for the position he sought or was performing
competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4)
some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.”  (Id. at p. 355.)  There must be a causal link between the
discriminatory animus and adverse action. 
(See Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686,
713.)  After proving a prima facie case of
discrimination, the McDonnell Douglas test shifts the burden to the defendant
to provide a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for its action.  (Guz, 24 Cal.4th at p. 379.)
After the reason is articulated, the burden is shifted to the plaintiff to show
that the defendant’s reason is pretext.  (Id.
at p. 380.)
 
Plaintiff refers to the summary judgment motion to advance his
argument that his FEHA claim was not frivolous. 
If Plaintiff’s FEHA claim was sufficient to establish a prima facie case,
his FEHA claim is likely not frivolous.  Probably
so.  Turning to the summary judgment
motion, Plaintiff points out that AHF attacked two elements of the prima facie
test: the second and fourth.  
 
As to the second element (qualification), Plaintiff spends
much time and effort detailing the evidence refuting Defendant’s claim that
Plaintiff was not qualified.  Plaintiff
succeeds in demonstrating a prima facie case regarding his qualification for
his position (or conversely, the  lack of
merit to Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff was not qualified).  
 
            Plaintiff
does not fare so well with the fourth element – a discriminatory motive.  At most, Plaintiff points to a couple
scattered sexual orientation comments made by others but Plaintiff fails to tie
these comments to his termination.  The
comments are peripheral, unconnected to the decision to terminate him.  Plaintiff points to certain statements –Plaintiff
testified as to two specific derogatory comments about his sexual orientation:
(1) that he was told by one of the medical directors and dental directors at a
medical retreat, “We were hoping that you were gay, but you know it just turned
out that you were straight, and we were so disappointed”; and (2) a staff
member said that Plaintiff liked watching straight porn. (Plaintiff’s Response
to Defendant’s Material Facts (PMF) 124-126.) Plaintiff also testified that it
would be “impossible to describe all of them [the derogatory comments about his
sexual orientation]” and that there was a “clear and consistent pattern of not
fitting in.” (PMF 127.)  
 
            Critically, however, Plaintiff does
not make a connection between his termination and the allegedly derogatory
comments about his sexual orientation.  There
must be a causal link between the discriminatory animus and adverse
action.  (See Mamou v. Trendwest
Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  Plaintiff does not submit any evidence to
show the speakers of any derogatory comments played a role in an any adverse
employment action taken against him.
 
            Plaintiff next argues there is
direct evidence that Plaintiff’s sexual orientation factored into AHF firing
him.  Plaintiff points to two comments.  Dr. Wohlfeiler, one of two individuals who decided
to fire Plaintiff, admitted that if Plaintiff had been a homosexual male, the
allegations of sexual harassment would have been dismissed sooner. (PMF 178, 179.)
 This comment does not present evidence
that Plaintiff’s sexual orientation was an animating factor or even considered
as part of his termination, but rather was a consideration in the investigation
whether Plaintiff sexually harassed a female employee.  The inference being that if he were a
homosexual male he would be less likely to harass a female and the
investigation would have terminated sooner. 
The comment does not demonstrate a discriminatory motive related to his
termination. Moreover, Plaintiff cannot lift a comment from the sexual
harassment investigation a female employee and shoehorn it into the decision to
terminate Plaintiff, at least not without some other connective evidence.  Plaintiff’s
“direct evidence” argument is conclusory, misguided, and without any factual
basis.  The “direct evidence” shows only
that Plaintiff’s sexual orientation was considered in investigating sexual
harassment complaints made against Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff was cleared of wrongdoing as to one of the complaints.  (PMF 95.) 
Plaintiff does not present direct evidence that his sexual orientation
was considered in his termination. 
 
In the end, Plaintiff admitted that none of the individuals
responsible for disciplining or terminating him made any negative comments
about his sexual orientation, nor did Plaintiff maintain that anyone else with
“anti-straight” animus influenced the decision. 
(See Grix Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p. 259:10-16.)[2]
 Without any evidence of discriminatory
animus connection to the termination decision, Plaintiff’s FEHA never gets off
the ground.  The claim is “frivolous,
unreasonable, or groundless.”  (See Bond
v. PulsarVideo Productions (1996) 50 Cal.Capp.4th 918, 924 [trial court
found that discriminatory action was not prosecuted in good faith where there
was no evidence of discrimination]; see also Villanueva v. City of Colton (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1200 [holding that the trial court did not abuse its
discretion in awarding attorney fees in FEHA action where defendant prevailed
at summary judgment by showing there was no admissible evidence of
discrimination].)  
 
Having so concluded, the court does not consider whether Plaintiff’s
FEHA and non-FEHA claims are inextricably intertwined.  
 
Tax Costs
 
AHF is entitled to costs.  The remaining issue is whether AHF’s claimed
costs should be taxed.  The court is
empowered to tax costs that it finds were not reasonably necessary to the
course of litigation.  (Ladas v.
California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761,
773-774.)  “The court’s first determination … is whether the statute
expressly allows the particular item, and whether it appears proper on its
face.”  (Nelson v. Anderson (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131.)
 
Plaintiff seeks an order taxing the following line items
from AHF’s Memorandum of Costs:
 
·        
Line Item No. 1: Filing and motion
fees for AHF’s discovery motions ($123.30)
·        
Line Item No. 5: Service of Process of
deposition subpoenas ($4,043.80)
·        
Line Item No. 11: Court Reporter Fee
($475)
·        
Line
Item No. 14: Electronic Filing Fees ($96.84)
·        
Line Item No. 16: Other
Costs-Chamber copies ($312.31)
 
Line
Item No. 1: Filing and motion fees
 
These are expressly allowed as costs under CCP section
1032.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(1).)  Further, the court finds the costs incurred
were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation.  
 
Line Item No. 5: Service of Process of deposition subpoenas 
 
When a memorandum of costs does not state how the subpoenas
are served, the party seeking costs has the burden to establish the necessity
and reasonableness of the service costs. 
(Nelson, 72 Cal.App.4th at p. 132.) 
 
Plaintiff argues the costs at Line Item No. 5 should be
taxed because the Memorandum of Costs does not indicate the manner of service.  In response, AHF provides evidence to show the
subpoenas were served by registered process server.  (See Grix Decl., Exs. B-F.)  Service of process by registered process
server is an allowable cost.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(4)(B).)    Further, AHF demonstrates they were reasonably
necessary to the litigation.  (See Opp.,
pp. 9-10.)
 
Line Item No. 11: Court Reporter Fees
 
The court exercises its discretion to award the challenged
costs of $475 and $3,409.40. (Code Civ.
Proc., §¿1033.5, subd. (c)(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
Line Item No. 14: Electronic Filing Fees 
 
Plaintiff challenges Item Nos. 14.1 and 14.s, 14.u, 14.w,
14.x, and 14.y.  AHF withdraws the costs
of $96.84 at Item No. 14.1.  (See Opp.,
p. 14, fn. 14.)  As to the other items,
AHF acknowledges that those items are not electronic filings but should have
been listed under filing and motion fees. 
The court agrees.  The court will
tax the withdrawn costs of $96.84 only.
 
Line Item No. 16: Other Costs
 
Plaintiff objects to various items in Line Item No. 16.  The court does not find any to be
objectionable or unreasonable.  To the
extent a cost is not expressly allowed by statute, the court exercises its
discretion to award those costs.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1033.5, subd.
(c)(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to strike costs is Denied. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to tax costs is Granted in part.  The
court taxes $96.84 from AHF’s Memorandum of Costs.
 
            AHF is
awarded costs in the reduced sum of $25,946.01.
 
            Defendant
to give notice.
 
            
Dated:   May 21, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


