


[1] In reply, Plaintiff argues that because he brought a FEHA claim, AHF, as
the prevailing party, was required to move for an award of discretionary
costs.  For this proposition, Plaintiff
relies on Neeble-Diamond v Hotel California By the Sea, LLC (2024) 99
Cal.App.5th 551 (Neeble-Diamond). 
This is a new argument which Plaintiff raises for the first time in
reply.  Typically, arguments raised for
the first time in reply are disregarded. 
“Points raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be
considered, because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an
opportunity to counter the argument.”  (American
Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453.)  A trial court has broad discretion to
disregard legal arguments or other matters not presented in a party's moving
papers.  (See, e.g., Jay v. Mahaffey
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537 [motion practice general rule is new evidence
not permitted with reply].)  The court
addresses the argument here because it is relevant to, but not dispositive of
the issues before the court.  
 
In Neeble-Diamond, defendant Hotel by the Sea
prevailed in an action raising FEHA and non-FEHA claims and thereafter filed a
Memorandum of Costs.  The trial court
amended the judgment to add Hotel By the Sea’s costs.  Neeble-Diamond did not file a motion to tax costs
but appealed the order amending the judgment. 
On appeal, the Court of Appeal reversed, holding that a prevailing
defendant in a FEHA action must file a noticed motion requesting a
discretionary award of costs.  The Court
of Appeal further held that the losing plaintiff in a FEHA action is not
required to respond to a Memorandum of Costs because discretionary costs in the
FEHA context is governed by Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(6),
not the general procedure for recovering the costs allowed under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1032.
 
Like the defendant in Neeble-Diamond, AHF
filed a Memorandum of Costs instead of filing a noticed motion for a
discretionary costs award.  However,
unlike Neeble-Diamond, Plaintiff has responded to AHF’s Memorandum of
Costs by filing the instant Motion to Strike and/or Tax Costs.  By doing so, the issues concerning the merit
of Plaintiff’s FEHA claim and whether it is inextricably intertwined with the
non-FEHA claims are squarely before the court.  The court addresses them here.  
 


[2] AHF also argued the FEHA claim was
frivolous because Plaintiff tampered with evidence supporting his non-FEHA
claims, which raises two inferences: (1) Plaintiff’s FEHA claim was likewise
baseless and (2) Plaintiff fatally damaged all of his claims such that no jury
could trust him on any claim once it learned he had doctored evidence.  However, the court has not made any finding
that Plaintiff tampered with evidence.  And
the court need not go down that path given the foregoing ruling. 
 

