 Case Number:  23STCV04392    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 21, 2024                                                  TRIAL
DATE:  September 30, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Dmitri Shistik v. KA America, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV04392
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Armanda Guerrero
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
Plaintiff, Dmitri Shistik, commenced this Song-Beverly
action against Defendant KA America, Inc. (KA) and thereafter propounded Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, among others.  KA served responses.  After review of the responses and document
production, Plaintiff determined that the responses to Request Nos. 8-10, 12,
17, 19, 22, 26-27, 33, 40, 55, 63, 64, and 66-69 were evasive and incomplete
and the objections were without merit or too general.  
 
On March 1, 2023, the court (Judge Yolanda Orozco) issued a
Notice of Case Management Conference with Song-Beverly Act Joint Case
Management Conference Statement Addendum and Attachment “A” (“March 1 Song-Beverly
Addendum”).  The case management
conference eventually took place on October 24, 2023 with Judge Serena Murillo.
 
On December 18, 2023, the parties participated in an
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) with the court (Judge Kerry Bensinger) regarding
this discovery dispute.  In advance of
the IDC, the court provided its Addendum to Case Management Conference Order
re: Song-Beverly Discovery (“Addendeum”) for the parties to review and discuss
at the IDC.  At the IDC, the issues were
not resolved.  The court directed the
parties to meet and confer and for Plaintiff’s Counsel to prepare and file a
Notice of Outcome.  The court also
adopted the Addeundum as issued and filed. 

 
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Outcome
which states, in relevant part:
 
Following
further communications between Counsels, on January 29, 2024, Counsel for
Defendant submitted that “KA will search for the information on similar
complaints that is called for in the CMO.” Counsel for Defendant also advised
that he does not have an estimated production date yet, and that he will follow
up with KA and let Plaintiff’s Counsel know.”
 
 Thereafter, KA did
not provide supplemental responses or supplemental documents.  Meet and confer efforts did not resolve the
dispute.  
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel KA
to provide further responses to Request Nos. 8-10, 12, 17, 19, 22, 26-27, 33,
40, 55, 63, 64, and 66-69.[1]  Plaintiff also seeks issue or evidentiary
sanctions.
 
On May 8, 2024, KA filed an opposition.
 
On May 14, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may
move for a further response to requests for production of documents where
an answer to the request is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is
without merit or too general.¿ The motion “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service
of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to
compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The
motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Finally, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires
that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            In her motion, Plaintiff states: “According to
records, Plaintiff Dmitri Shistik (“Plaintiff”) purchased 2021 KA Sorento
vehicle (“Vehicle”) on May 23, 2021 with 26 miles on the odometer from
Defendant Car Pros Automotive Group, Inc. dba Car Pros KA Glendale
(“Dealership”) which was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant KA
America, Inc. (“KA” or “Defendant”). (Declaration of Sam Azimtash (“SA Decl.”),
¶ 2.) According to records, following the purchase, the Subject Vehicle was
presented to Defendant’s authorized repair facility on numerous different
occasions for the following engine, transmission, and powertrain symptoms
and/or defects that were identified by Defendant’s authorized repair facility:
(1) illumination of the Check Engine Light; (2) loss of power; (3) shaking on
start, especially in cold weather; (4) stuttering on start, especially in cold
weather; (5) ignition coil failure; (6) misfire of the cylinders; (7) misfiring
of multiple cylinders; (8) trans shifting hard; (9) excessive shaking and
vibrations; (10) rough idle; (11) engine misfiring rapidly on start; (12) trans
internal failure; (13) harsh shifts; (14) symptoms leading to a transmission
replacement; (15) shifting really hard on reverse; (16) leaking waterpump;
and/or (17) transmission juddering.1 (Id. ¶ 3; Exhibit A to SA Decl.) As
of the filing of this Motion, the Subject Vehicle is suffering from Defects
identified herein and the Defendant’s authorized repair facility has been
unable to repair it. (Id.)”  (Mot., p.
5.)   
 
                Plaintiff
seeks a further response to Request Nos. 8-10, 12, 17, 19, 22, 26-27, 33, 40,
55, 63, 64, and 66-69.  
 
            With the Addendum
in mind, the court rules as follows: 
 
No. 8: The
Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by YOU and provided to YOUR
authorized repair facility(s), within the state of California, from 2016 to the
present. [This request will be understood to include production of any and all
versions of such manual as distributed to YOUR dealerships during the relevant
time frame].
 
            KA’s
Response:  “After a reasonable inquiry
and diligent search, KA has been unable to locate any documents responsive to
the Request. KA has no documents responsive to this request, and no responsive
documents have ever existed. KA does not have a document entitled Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual. However, KA refers Plaintiff to the herein
referenced portions of KA’s Service Policy and Procedures Manual, a copy of
which was produced subject to the Protective Order in this case.”
 
            Ruling:  DENIED. 
The court finds this is a Code-compliant response.  KA represents that no responsive documents
have ever existed.  A further response is
not warranted.  
 
No. 9: All LEMON
LAW DOCUMENTS[2]
published by YOU and provided to YOUR employees, agents, and representatives.
[This request shall also be understood to include copies of any and all
documents identified in YOUR response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No.
7.] 
 
KA’s Response:  “KA
agrees to comply with this demand in part and will produce all documents or
things in the demanded category that exist and are in its possession, custody,
or control. KA refers Plaintiff to the Warranty and Consumer Information Manual
for the subject vehicle, a copy of which was previously produced, and relevant
portions of the Service Policy and Procedures Manual and Call Matrix copies of
which will be produced subject to the Protective Order in this case.”
 
            Ruling:  DENIED. 
“ALL LEMON LAW DOCUMENTS” (which ends with “etc.”) is overbroad.  Moreover, the request is not bounded by time
and place, which should be after January 1, 2021 (the year the car was
purchased) and location (California).     
 
No. 10: A copy of
the Workshop Manual specifying diagnosis and repair procedures for YOUR
VEHICLES.[3]
 
            KA asserted
an objection-only response.  
 
            Ruling:  GRANTED.  (Addendum 2(f).)  
 
No. 12: All
Technical Service Bulletins, Recalls, Special Service Messages, or other
technical bulletins regarding TRANSMISSION DEFECTS in YOUR VEHICLES.
 
            KA’s
Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in part and will produce all
documents or things in the demanded category that exist and are in its
possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is being made. KA
will produce technical service bulletins, if any, related to the issues alleged
by Plaintiff to exist with the subject vehicle.”
 
            Ruling:  GRANTED. 
(Addendum 2(i).)  
 
No. 17: All
DOCUMENTS, including electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning
any internal analysis or investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding
TRANSMISSION DEFECTS in YOUR VEHICLES. [This request shall be interpreted to
include any such investigation to determine the root cause of such TRANSMISSION
DEFECTS, any such investigation to design a permanent repair procedure for such
TRANSMISSION DEFECTS, any such investigation into the failure rates of parts
associated with such TRANSMISSION DEFECTS, etc.].
 
            KA provided
an objection-only response.  
 
            Ruling:  GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part.  With respect to
electronically stored information, the motion to compel is Granted.  With respect to email communication, the
request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does not
identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive
documents.  The request with respect to emails
is Denied. 
 
No. 19: All
DOCUMENTS, including electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning communication YOU have had regarding customer concerns relating to
TRANSMISSION DEFECTS in YOUR VEHICLES.
 
            Ruling:  GRANTED in
part (Addendum 2(h)) and DENIED in part. 
With respect to electronically stored information, the motion to compel
is Granted.  As to email communication,
the request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does
not identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive
documents.  The request with respect to
emails is Denied. 
 
            On May 15, 2024, KA lodged
confidential documents under seal pursuant to the parties’ Stipulated
Protective Order.  The confidential
documents relate to customer complaints that are substantially similar to the
alleged defects in the subject vehicle.  The
court has reviewed KA’s under seal submission. 
In particular, KA’s spreadsheet is incomprehensible.  It does not comply with Addendum 2(h).  KA is ordered to amend the spreadsheet
consistent with Addendum 2(h).
 
No. 22: All
DOCUMENTS, including electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and warranty claims
related to TRANSMISSION DEFECTS in YOUR VEHICLES, including any databases in
YOUR possession with information from dealers, service departments, parts
departments, or warranty departments, and all documents concerning YOUR
response to each complaint, claim or reported failure.
 
            Ruling:  GRANTED in
part (Addendum 2(h)) and DENIED in part. 
With respect to electronically stored information, the motion to compel
is Granted.  As to email communication,
the request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does
not identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive
documents.  The request with respect to
emails is Denied. 
 
On May 15, 2024, KA lodged confidential documents under seal
pursuant to the parties’ Stipulated Protective Order.  The confidential documents relate to customer
complaints that are substantially similar to the alleged defects in the subject
vehicle.  The court has reviewed KA’s
under seal submission.  In particular, KA’s
spreadsheet is incomprehensible.  It does
not comply with Addendum 2(h).  KA is
ordered to amend the spreadsheet consistent with Addendum 2(h). 
 
            No. 26:
All DOCUMENTS, including warranty claims related to TRANSMISSION DEFECTS in
YOUR VEHICLES, including any databases in YOUR possession with information from
dealers, service departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and
all documents concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported
failure. 
 
KA provided an objection-only response.  
 
Ruling:  DENIED.  Warranty claims are limited to the subject
vehicle.  (Addendum 2(e).)
 
No. 27: All
DOCUMENTS which concern any technical service bulletins issued, or in the
process of being issued, for YOUR VEHICLES.
 
KA’s Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in part
and will produce all documents or things in the demanded category that exist
and are in its possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is
being made. KA will produce technical service bulletins, if any, related to the
issues alleged by Plaintiff to exist with the subject vehicle.”
 
Ruling:  GRANTED. 
(Addendum 2(i).) 
 
No. 33: Any and
all audio or video tape recordings involving any discussions concerning the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
KA provided an objection-only response.  
 
Ruling:  GRANTED.  (Addendum 2(d).) 
 
No. 40: All
DOCUMENTS that YOU use, since 2016, to evaluate consumers’ requests for
repurchases pursuant to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
 
KA’s Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in part
and will produce all documents or things in the demanded category that exist
and are in its possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is
being made. KA refers Plaintiff to the Warranty and Consumer Information Manual
relevant portions of the Service Policy and Procedures Manual and Call Matrix,
and the BBB Lemon Law Summary for California, copies of which will be produced
subject to the Protective Order in this case.” 
 
Ruling:  GRANTED in
part.  KA agreed to comply with the
demand in part.  KA has not produced any
documents.  DENIED in part. The relevant
time period is 2021-forward.  (Addendum 2(g).)

 
No. 55: All
training manuals and/or other DOCUMENTS relating to the training given to YOUR
employees, agents, and representatives, since 2016, in connection with handling
consumer lemon law repurchase requests.
 
KA’s Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in part
and will produce all documents or things in the demanded category that exist
and are in its possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is
being made. KA refers Plaintiff to the Warranty and Consumer Information
Manual, and relevant portions of the Service Policy and Procedures Manual and
Call Matrix, copies of which will be produced subject to the Protective Order
in this case.”
 
Ruling:  DENIED.  The relevant time period is 2021
forward.  (Addendum 2(g).) 
 
No. 63: All
DOCUMENTS reflecting YOUR call center’s policies, procedures or practices in
evaluating consumer’s request for vehicle repurchase under the Song-Beverly Act
which was/were in effect at the time Plaintiff requested repurchase of the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
KA’s Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in part
and will produce all documents or things in the demanded category that exist
and are in its possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is
being made. KA refers Plaintiff to the following responsive consumer affairs
documents: the Warranty and Consumer Information Manual and BBB Lemon Law
Summaries for California, and relevant portions of the Service Policy and
Procedures Manual and Call Matrix, copies of which will be produced subject to
the Protective Order in this case.”
 
RULING:  GRANTED.
(Addendum 2(d).) 
 
No. 64: All
DOCUMENTS reflecting YOUR policies, procedures or practices in assessing
whether to repurchase or replace a consumer’s vehicle under the Song-Beverly
Act which was/were in effect since 2016.
 
            KA’s
Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in part and will produce all
documents or things in the demanded category that exist and are in its
possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is being made. KA
refers Plaintiff to the Warranty and Consumer Information Manual and BBB Lemon
Law Summaries for California, which will be produced, and relevant portions of
the Service Policy and Procedures Manual and Call Matrix, copies of which will
be produced subject to the Protective Order in this case.”
 
Ruling:  DENIED.  The relevant time period is 2021
forward.  (Addendum (g).) 
            
No. 66: YOUR
dealership agreement with CAR PROS AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. DBA CAR PROS KA
GLENDALE.
 
KA provided an objection-only response.  
 
Ruling:  GRANTED.  Plaintiff argues a further response is
required because KA has asserted improper objections.  The objections lack merit.  This discovery request seeks relevant
information.
 
No. 67: All
communications between YOU and CAR PROS AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. DBA CAR PROS KA
GLENDALE regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
            KA’s
Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in whole and will produce all
documents or things in the demanded category that exist and are in its
possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection is being made. KA
refers Plaintiff to the service records for the subject vehicle, which are in
Plaintiff’s possession and will be produced by KA. Further, KA refers Plaintiff
to the Warranty History Inquiry and Techline Assistance Center Case Reports,
copies of which will be produced subject to the entry of a suitable Protective
Order in this case.” 
 
Ruling: GRANTED. Plaintiff argues a further response is
required because KA has not produced the requested documents.  The court notes that Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling KA’s compliance.  It is
undisputed KA has yet to provide the documents.  Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to an order
compelling KA’s compliance.
 
No. 68: All
communications between YOU and CAR PROS AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. DBA CAR PROS KA
GLENDALE regarding all of the repairs performed on the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
KA’s Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in
whole and will produce all documents or things in the demanded category that
exist and are in its possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection
is being made. KA refers Plaintiff to the service records for the subject
vehicle, which are in Plaintiff’s possession and will be produced by KA.
Further, KA refers Plaintiff to the Warranty History Inquiry and Techline
Assistance Center Case Reports, copies of which will be produced subject to the
entry of a suitable Protective Order in this case.”
 
Ruling:  GRANTED.  Plaintiff argues a
further response is required because KA has not produced the requested
documents.  The court notes that
Plaintiff seeks an order compelling KA’s compliance.  It is undisputed KA has yet to provide the
documents.  Accordingly, Plaintiff is
entitled to an order compelling KA’s compliance.
 
NO. 69: All
reports submitted to YOU from CAR PROS AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. DBA CAR PROS KA
GLENDALE regarding CAR PROS AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. DBA CAR PROS KA GLENDALE’s
repair procedure.
 
KA’s Response: “KA agrees to comply with this demand in
whole and will produce all documents or things in the demanded category that
exist and are in its possession, custody, or control, and to which no objection
is being made. KA refers Plaintiff to the service records for the subject
vehicle, which are in Plaintiff’s possession and will be produced by KA.
Further, KA refers Plaintiff to the Warranty History Inquiry and Techline
Assistance Center Case Reports, copies of which will be produced subject to the
entry of a suitable Protective Order in this case.”
 
Ruling:  GRANTED.  Plaintiff argues a further response is
required because KA has not produced the requested documents.  The court notes that Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling KA’s compliance.  It is
undisputed KA has yet to provide the documents. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling KA’s
compliance. 
 
            Issue
and Evidence Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests issue and evidence sanctions against KA.   If a party fails to obey an order
compelling inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320,
subd.(c).)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s request is based upon purported violations
of the court’s March 1, 2023 and October 24, 2023 orders.  The request lacks merit.  The court did not issue any rulings in this
discovery dispute.  There is no basis to
claim KA disobeyed an order “compelling inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling.”  The request is DENIED.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion as to Request for Production Nos. 10, 12,
27, 33, 63, 66, 67, 68, 69 is GRANTED.  KA
is ordered to provide further responses and/or comply with its statement of
production within 45 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion as to Request for Production Nos. 17, 19, 22, 40 is GRANTED IN PART.  KA is ordered to provide further responses
and/or comply with its statement of production within 45 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion as to Request for Production Nos. 8, 9, 26, 55, 64 is DENIED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for issue and evidence sanctions is Denied.  
 
            Plaintiff
to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   May 21, 2024                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 


