

Hearing Date:             September 25, 2024    
Case Name:                Westlake Services, LLC v. Perl

Case No.:                    24STCV00706
Motion:                       Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
Moving
Party:             Defendant Chaim Perl

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Court sustains the
demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the Second Amended
Complaint. 
 

 
Background                                                                                            
 
            This
is a contract dispute. Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges
Defendant Chaim Perl (“Defendant”) sold a vehicle to a third party. Plaintiff
agreed to finance the sale according to a Master Dealer Agreement
(“Agreement”). Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached certain warranties and
representations in the Agreement, triggering Defendant’s obligation to
repurchase the loan. Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to repurchase the loan.
            
            On March
14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint alleging the following
causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Common Counts. 
 
            On March
15, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to both causes of action. The Court
sustained the demurrer on May 22, 2024. 
 
            On May 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint alleging the same causes of
action: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Common Counts. 
 
            On June 26,
2024, Defendant filed this demurrer. On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
to the demurrer. On September 18, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
for Demurrers 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the
complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton
v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.) 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
demurs to the first and second causes of action on the grounds that each cause
of action fails to state a claim and is uncertain.
 
First Cause of Action – Breach
of Contract
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “‘(1) the
contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.’ [Citation.]” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1182, 1186.)
            
            Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action on the grounds that it fails to allege
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. The SAC
specifies the provisions Defendant purportedly breached as Article 6(h) and
Article 3(g), (aa). (SAC, B-2.) The provisions describe fraudulent activities
that would trigger Defendant’s obligation to repurchase the loan. Defendant
argues that while the SAC points out the specific provisions Defendant
purportedly breached, it still contains no factual allegations as to how
Defendant breached those provisions or engaged in fraudulent activity.
Defendant also argues a heightened pleading standard applies where Plaintiff
alleges fraud. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends to have alleged all necessary facts to state a
cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff argues that a valid contract
has been established by attaching a copy of the Agreement. The SAC alleges
Defendant entered into the Agreement on or about August 11, 2020, and breached
the agreement on or around May 12, 2023. Plaintiff argues the SAC has adequately
been amended to include the name of the third-party consumer involved in the transaction,
the date of the original transaction, the date of Plaintiff’s repurchase
demand, and Defendant’s failure to perform. Plaintiff alleges $51,177.01 in
damages as a result of Defendant’s breach. Plaintiff argues any dispute
regarding the SAC should be resolved at trial or via discovery.
 
            The Court
finds the SAC fails to allege sufficient facts demonstrating a breach of
contract. The SAC identifies provisions of the Agreement that Defendant
purportedly breached but fails to allege facts describing Defendant’s actions
that would arise to a breach. The SAC states, “Due to a breach of Art. 6(h) and
Art. 3(g), (aa) in the [Agreement], Defendant was required to buy-back the
loan.” (SAC, BC-2.) The mentioned Articles are as follows:
 
Article 6(h) of the Agreement requires
repurchase by the dealer of a finance agreement if: 
(h) Dealer breaches any of the
representations, warranties, or covenants specified herein, 
above, in Section 3 of this
Agreement. 
 
Article 3(g) of the Agreement
provides: 
(g) Each contract accurately
reflects a genuine transaction between the Dealer and the Customer in all
particulars. At least one Customer identified in the Contract is the primary
driver of the Unit, and the Unit has been delivered to such customer. 
 
Article 3(aa) of the Master Dealer
Agreement provides: 
(aa) Possession of the Unit was not
obtained by Customer by any fraudulent scheme, trick, or device. Sale of the
Contract to Westlake was not accomplished by Dealer’s use of any fraudulent
scheme, trick, or device.
 
Plaintiff must allege specific
facts that would trigger Defendant obligation to repurchase the loan. “‘If a
condition precedent imposed by the contract is an act to be performed by the
plaintiff he may allege such performance in general terms. ... But if the
condition is an event which must happen before the defendant's duty of
performance accrues, a specific allegation of the happening of the
condition is a necessary part of the pleading of the defendant's breach.’
[Citation.]” (Byrne v. Harvey (1962) 211 Cal.App.2d 92, 113 (italics in
original).) The SAC does not explain how Defendant’s or the third-party
customer’s actions resulted in a breach of Article 3(g) or (aa), which would
trigger Defendant’s obligation to repurchase the loan under Article 6(h). For
example, the SAC does not allege that Ms. Hill is not the primary driver of the
unit or that the unit was not delivered to Ms. Hill in violation of Article
3(g). Further, the SAC does not allege facts that suggest Defendant committed
any fraudulent scheme in violation of Article 3(aa). Therefore, Plaintiff did
not specifically allege facts that would predicate the basis for Defendant’s
obligation to buy-back the loan.
 
The Court further notes the
heightened pleading standard does not apply here when Plaintiff is alleging a
breach of contract cause of action.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to
the first cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action – Common
Counts
 
“[A] common count, to be
sufficiently pleaded, must state not only the indebtedness of 
the defendant but also directly or impliedly the
relationship or the express or implied legal 
principle upon which a promise to plaintiff is predicated.”
(Vaughn v. Certified Life Ins. Co. of 
Cal. (1965) 238 Cal.App.2d 177, 181.) While common
count claims are generally not subject to 
demurrer, they are subject to demurrer when they are based
on the same facts as the specifically 
pleaded claims. (Orloff v. Metropolitan Trust Co.
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 484, 489.
 
            Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for common counts on the grounds that the
SAC fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is
uncertain. Defendant argues the second cause of action should fail because it
is based on the same facts as the breach of contract cause of action.
Specifically, both claims seek an identical damages sum. Plaintiff’s opposition
does not address this argument.
 
            The Court
finds the SAC fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for
common counts. The Court agrees that the second and first causes of action are
based on the same facts since they seek the same amount of damages, i.e.,
$51,177.01. (See SAC, ¶¶ BC-4, CC-2.) 
 
            The Court
sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
            The Court sustains the demurrer to the first and second
causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint with leave to amend.