 Case Number:  24STCV26984    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



J.D.C., a minor Individual, by and through
  her Guardian ad Litem, ELIZABETH SERRANO
  
        
  vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS,
  LLC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV26984  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 14, 2025



 
Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference is GRANTED.
 
            On 10/15/2024, Plaintiff J.D.C., a minor
individual, by and through her Guardian ad Litem Elizabeth Serrano (Plaintiff)
filed suit against General Motors, LLC, Rotolo Chevrolet, Inc., and Pomona Auto
Body Collision Center, Inc. (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) strict
liability—manufacturing defect; (2) strict liability—design defect; (3)
negligence; (4) negligence—failure to recall; (5) breach of implied warranty of
merchantability; (6) violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (7)
negligent repair; and (8) negligent repair. 
 
            On
10/24/2024, Plaintiff moved for trial preference. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36,
subdivision (b) “A
civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be
entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is under
14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does not have a
substantial interest in the case as a whole.”
 
Subsection (e) further provides that, “[n]otwithstanding
any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for
preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies
the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this
preference.” (Id., subd. (e).) If the
court grants a motion for preference, it must set the case for trial within 120 days after the motion is granted.
(Id., subd. (f).)
 
Factual
Background
 
On May 4, 2024, Plaintiff J.D.C., a 13-year-old minor girl was in
the front passenger seat of her family’s 2017 Chevrolet Malibu LS while her older
brother, Jason David Carrillo, was driving. They were coming back from a family
outing and returning to their home in Bloomington, CA. Unfortunately, Jason
suddenly began to feel dizzy and lost consciousness before he could pull over.
As a result, the vehicle drifted left into oncoming traffic and struck another
vehicle head-on. The 2017 Chevrolet Malibu’s front passenger airbags deployed,
however the front passenger side seatbelt pretensioner allegedly failed to fire
and retract properly. As a result of the allegedly defective vehicle, J.D.C.’s
upper body was not properly and safely kept in place, but thrusted forward into
the airbag. J.D.C. suffered a Traumatic Brain Injury, an L2 Burst Fracture, a
T12-L3 Posterior Spinal Fixation, as well as numerous bruises, abrasions, and
lacerations to her face and body, as well as numerous other bodily injuries. 
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff seeks trial preference on
the grounds pursuant to CCP section 36(b).
 
After review, the Court finds that Plaintiff meets the criteria for
trial preference afforded by this section. Namely, Plaintiff is under the age
of 14, she is the sole Plaintiff in this action, and has a substantial interest
in the litigation. There is no showing of poor health required for trial
preference under CCP section 36(b). 
 
Once a court determines that the three requirements for preference
under CCP § 36(b) have been met by a moving party, the requirement to grant
preference is mandatory. As the court noted in KochAsh v. Superior Court,
“[w]e conclude that section 36 … is mandatory and absolute in its application
and does not allow the trial court to exercise inherent or statutory general
administrative authority.” (Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.
App. 3d 689, 692.) This requirement was further reinforced in 2018 when the
Court of Appeal held that “[w]here a party meets the requisite standard for
calendar preference, preference must be granted. No weighing of interests is
involved.” (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal. App. 5th 529, 535.)
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference is
granted. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
January    , 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include t
he case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 