  Case Number:  23SMCV00997    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
SP Plus Corporation’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
SP Plus Corporation to give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
SP Plus Corporation (“SP Plus”) moves the Court for an order granting summary
judgment in its favor and against Plaintiff Thomas Greco (“Plaintiff”) and Defendants/Cross-Complainants N & J - #1,
L.P and Ness Moadeb (“Defendants”). Plaintiff and Defendants oppose the
motion on the ground there remains a triable issue of material fact. As an
initial matter, the Court notes that SP Plus has filed two summary judgment
motions as one, that is, SP Plus seeks judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint and
judgment on Defendants’ First Amended Cross-Complaint. It follows that SP Plus
should have filed two motions and obtained two hearing reservations, but it
failed to do so. While the Court would be within its discretion to make one
motion off calendar and require SP Plus to refile its motion, the Court opts to
consider both motions. However, SP Plus is required to pay a second motion
filing fee of $435.00 within ten (10) days of entry of this order, and the
Court notes that further failures to comply with the Court’s hearing
reservation system will result in the motion being placed off calendar.
 
Legal
Standard
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant
. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).)
 
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set
forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see
also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Analysis
Plaintiff
alleges claims for premises liability and general negligence against SP Plus
based on allegations that Plaintiff slipped and fell due to a dangerous
condition at 984 Monument Street in Pacific Palisades; specifically, on March
15, 2021, Plaintiff fell due to a slippery wet surface creating a slip hazard.
(Compl., pp. 5-6.) Defendants seek indemnity and contribution on the ground
that if Plaintiff sustained injuries, it was a direct result of SP Plus’s
negligence, and SP Plus agreed to indemnify N & J - #1, L.P. (First Am. Cross-Compl., pp. 2, 3.)
 
To
establish a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must establish the elements of (1)
“the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) “The elements of
a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)
 
“Equitable
indemnity, which requires no contractual relationship, is premised on a joint
legal obligation to another for damages; it is subject to allocation of fault
principles and comparative equitable apportionment of loss.” (C.W. Howe
Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 688, 700, quotation marks
omitted.) “The elements of a cause of action for equitable indemnity are (1) a
showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the
indemnitee for which the indemnitor is equitably responsible.” (Ibid.,
quotation marks, brackets, and ellipses omitted.) A claim for contribution
requires evidence of (1) “a money judgment,” (2) “rendered jointly against two
or more defendants in a tort action,” (3) “in accordance with the principles of
equity,” (4) “after one tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged the joint
judgment or has paid more than his pro rata share thereof,” (5) without
intentional injury by the tortfeasor. (Code Civ. Proc., § 875, subds. (a)-(d).)
“An indemnitee seeking to recover on an agreement for indemnification must
allege the parties’ contractual relationship, the indemnitee’s performance of
that portion of the contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, the
facts showing a loss within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification
agreement, and the amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F & H Construction (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.)
 
SP Plus provides
evidence that it generally staffed the subject garage on Mondays, Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Fridays from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., it provided management
services at the garage, and it had one person on site during the staffing
times. (SP Plus’s UMF Nos. 3, 4.) The incident at issue occurred on March 15,
2021 before 8:10 a.m., before any SP Plus employee commenced work at the
parking structure, and it was raining lightly on that day. (SP Plus’s UMF Nos.
1, 2, 5.) SP Plus had no maintenance responsibilities at the location over the
weekend, it had no responsibilities at the location for over 48 hours prior to
the incident, and it had no responsibility to maintain the physical structure
of the parking lot. (SP Plus’s UMF Nos. 6-8.) SP Plus also provides evidence
that the Parking Management Contract required indemnity to the owner only in
the event of SP Plus’s negligence. (SP Plus’s UMF No. 9.)
 
Plaintiff
provides evidence that the duties under the Parking Management Contract were
somewhat vague. The contract is silent regarding timing of work at the parking
garage, including whether work was required earlier in the day if there had
been a weather event requiring additional attention, and the contract is vague
as to SP Plus’s maintenance duties at the garage, as parking attendant Doroteo
Ortiz testified that many duties were not included in the contract. (Pl.’s UMF
No. 3.) Reference to the contract confirms there is no listed time for duty, as
the contract states that days and hours of operation and the number of
employees necessary would be determined by the owner and the operator. (Mot.,
Flokas Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) Evidence that one individual was on site on Mondays,
Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. does not show that
SP Plus did not have a duty to provide more than that coverage. The duties are
also vague, as “[m]anagement and operation of the parking facility” could include
any sort of work, including the work SP Plus claims it was not required to
perform. (Ibid.)
 
The Court
finds there remains a triable issue of material fact as to whether SP Plus can
be liable for Plaintiff’s injuries because SP Plus may have been negligent in
its duties under the contract. Because the contract required indemnification where
SP Plus may have been negligent, and there remains a triable issue as to
negligence, there is also a triable issue as to whether indemnification is
warranted. Accordingly, Defendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.