  Case Number:  19STCV30463    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BEN
  MYERSON CANDY CO., INC. dba WINE WAREHOUSE,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
DEVOTO-WADE
  LLC dba GOLDEN STATE CIDER, and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  19STCV30463
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  08/27/19
2nd
  Amended Complaint Filed:   01/13/23
Trial
  Date:  None set.



 
Hearing
date:  February 28, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendant Devoto-Wade LLC dba
Golden State Cider
Responding
Party:  None.
Motion
to Seal 
The Court
considered the moving papers.
The motion is
DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background
            On
January 13, 2023, Plaintiff Ben Myerson Candy Co., Inc. dba Wine Warehouse
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
Defendant Devoto-Wade LLC dba Golden State Cider (“Defendant”), and DOES 1-10,
inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Common Count in Quantum Meruit. 
            On
January 2, 2024, Defendant filed this instant Motion to Seal. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
 
 
Legal
Standard
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, “A party requesting that a record be
filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the
record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (CRC, rule
2.551, subd. (b)(1).) “A copy of the motion or application must be served on
all parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise,
any party that already has access to the records to be placed under seal must
be served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a
redacted version.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).) 
Finally, “[t]he
party requesting that a record be filed under seal must lodge it with the court
under (d) when the motion or application is made, unless good cause exists for
not lodging it or the record has previously been lodged under (3)(A)(i).
Pending the determination of the motion or application, the lodged record will
be conditionally under seal.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(4).)
 
Discussion
            Defendant Devoto-Wade LLC dba Golden
State Cider (“Defendant”) moves for an order sealing certain materials
submitted by Plaintiff Ben Myerson Candy Co., Inc. dba Wine Warehouse
(“Plaintiff”) in connection with Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s motion
in limine K and Plaintiff’s motion for issue and monetary sanctions. Defendant
argues the information sought to be sealed consists of information reflecting
or deriving from Defendant’s documents produced in discovery and the testimony
of Defendant’s witnesses that were designated as “Confidential” or “Highly
Confidential – Attorneys’ Eyes Only” pursuant to the parties’ Protective Order
and/or provided to Defendant with an expectation that Defendant would seek to
seal the information. Furthermore, Defendant contends it has an overriding
interest in the sealing of this information to protect it and its members’
private and competitively sensitive information and that of relevant
third-parties, which overrides the public interest in access. Moreover,
Defendant asserts the documents were also previously ordered sealed or contain
information similar in nature to documents and information that the Court
ordered sealed. (Min. Order 4-20-23; see also Order re: Mtn. to Seal and
Disqualify Counsel 5-30-23.) 
Specifically,
Defendant seeks to seal information contained within five exhibits: (1) Exhibit
R to the Declaration of Oren Bitan in Support of Wine Warehouse’s Motion for
Issue and Monetary Sanctions under seal; (2) Exhibit M to the Declaration of
Oren Bitan in Support of Wine Warehouse’s Opposition to Golden State Cider’s
Motion in Limine K under seal; (3) emails attached as Exhibit S to the
Declaration of Oren Bitan in Support of Wine Warehouse’s Motion for Issue and
Monetary Sanctions under seal; (4) Excerpts from Defendant’s proposed trial
demonstratives; and (5) Excerpts from a confidential deposition of Defendant’s
former CEO. 
Additionally,
Defendant argues the documents and deposition testimony it seeks to seal contain
confidential information and negotiation strategies that were exchanged between
the members and partners of Defendant, and confidential information requested
and exchanged between counsel for Defendant and counsel for Sonoma Craft for
purposes of completing the Golden State Cider Transaction. Defendant also
argues revealing such confidential and sensitive materials to the public would
put Defendant at a competitive disadvantage if the company sought to acquire or
invest in a new business venture, because the information is not something Defendant
would otherwise reveal during the typical negotiation process. Likewise,
Defendant contends it takes extensive steps to protect its confidential
information, including by restricting access to specific individuals and
ensuring the company has adequate cybersecurity. Lastly, Defendant asserts the
sealing motion is narrowly tailored and reasonable. 
The Court finds
that Defendant’s motion is narrowly tailored and reasonable. Defendant only
seeks to seal information that have either already been subject to seal and/or
are similarly in nature. Furthermore, Defendant only seeks to seal five
exhibits, which is a relatively low quantity of documents. Defendant also
demonstrates the information it seeks to seal contain confidential or highly
confidential information and that revealing such information to the public
would put it at a disadvantage against its competitors. Finally, Defendant
shows that the information it seeks to protect under seal is not readily shared
with competitors, business partners, or even certain individuals that work for
Defendant. However, Defendant’s motion does not include proof of service as
required by California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1). Also, Plaintiff did
not file an opposition. As such, the Court is unable to confirm whether or not
Plaintiff had notice of this instant motion. 
Therefore, the
motion to seal is DENIED without prejudice.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: February 28, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Assigned Judge of
the Superior Court
 