 Case Number:  22STCV38667    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
JAMES
  H. TUGGLE, et al.,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
RESHMA
  KAMATH, et al.,
 
                              Defendant.
 
[AND RELATED
  CROSS-ACTION]
 


Case No.:  22STCV38667
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  December 12, 2022
Cross-Complaint
  Filed: February 21, 2023
Trial
  Date:  TBD



 
Hearing
date:  February 28, 2024
Moving Party: (1) Cross-Defendants James H. Tuggle,
individually and as trustee of the James Tuggle Family Revocable Living Trust (“Tuggle”),
and Robert Conrad; and
 (2)-(3) Plaintiff Tuggle.
Responding
Party: (1)-(3) Defendant Reshma Kamath 
(1)   Special Motion to Strike under Code
of Civil Procedure § 425.16;
(2)   Motion to Compel Defendant Reshma
Kamath to Provide Further Responses to Interrogatory No. 15.1 of Plaintiff’s
Second Set of Form Interrogatories and for Sanctions; and
(3)   Motion to Compel Defendant Reshma
Kamath to Provide Further Responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Demands for
Production of Documents and to Produce Documents and for Sanctions.          
In connection
with the special motion to strike, the court considered the moving papers and the
request for continuance. As to the motions to compel further, the court considers
the moving papers, oppositions, and replies. 
            First,
as to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Reshma Kamath’s request for continuance, the court
DENIES the request because good cause has not been established to
warrant the requested relief. 
Second, the
court GRANTS Cross-Defendants James H. Tuggle, individually and as
trustee of the James Tuggle Family Revocable Living Trust and Robert Conrad’s Special
Motion to Strike under Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16. Thus, the first through
fifth causes of action raised in the cross-complaint are deemed stricken. The
request for attorney fees is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $4,762.75.
Cross-Complainant Reshma Kamath is ordered to tender payment to the
Cross-Defendants’ counsel of record within 45 days of this order. 
Third, the court
DENIES Plaintiff James H. Tuggle’s Motion to Compel Defendant Reshma Kamath to Provide Further Responses to
Interrogatory No. 15.1 of Plaintiff’s Second Set of Form Interrogatories and Motion
to Compel Defendant Reshma Kamath to Provide Further Responses to Plaintiff’s
First Set of Demands for Production of Documents and to Produce Documents. The
requests for sanctions are  DENIED.
 
Background
            On
December 12, 2022, Plaintiff James H. Tuggle, individually and as trustee of
the James Tuggle Family Revocable Living Trust (“Tuggle”), initiated this
action against Defendant Reshma Kamath (“Kamath”), alleging the following
causes of action: (1) legal malpractice; (2) breach of contract; and (3)
financial elder abuse. 
On February 21,
2023, Kamath filed her answer to the complaint.  On the same day, Kamath filed her
cross-complaint against Tuggle, individually and as trustee, and Robert Conrad
(“Conrad”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) defamation (libel); (2)
defamation (per se); (3) defamation (slander); (4) malicious
prosecution; (5) abuse of process; (6) racial discrimination; (7) gender
discrimination; (8) unfair misleading business practices; (9) breach of
contract; (10) breach of fiduciary duty; and (11) breach of covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.
On April 18,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant discovery motions, seeking to compel further
responses to his demand for production of documents, set one, and form
interrogatory no. 15.1. On June 28, 2023, Kamath filed her opposition to the
motion to compel further regarding Tuggle’s demand for production of documents.
On July 5, 2023, Tuggle filed his reply to this opposition. Thereafter, on July
10, 2023, Kamath filed her opposition to the motion to compel further regarding
Tuggle’s form interrogatory no. 15.1. On July 13, 2023, Tuggle filed his reply
to this opposition
On July 11,
2023, Tuggle and Conrad (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) filed the instant special
motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16 (“anti-SLAPP Motion”),
seeking to strike the first through fifth causes of action raised in the cross-complaint.

On July 14,
2023, the court continued the hearings of Tuggle’s motions to compel further to
February 28, 2024. 
In lieu of an opposition
to the anti-SLAPP Motion, Kamath filed a request for continuance on February
23, 2024. This request also sought to continue the discovery motions. On
February 26, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed their oppositions to Kamath’s continuance
request. 
Legal
Standard

Anti-SLAPP

The anti-SLAPP
statute is “a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise
of free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation
process and resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co.
(2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal quotations omitted].) Courts use a
two-step process for determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit
against public participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether
the defendant has established that the challenged claim arises from protected
speech. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)

Compel
     Further

A motion for an
order compelling further responses shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2)), and notice of
the motion shall be given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to
which the parties have agreed in writing, or the party requesting the order
waives any right to compel further responses (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(c),
2031.310(c)).
Interrogatories
On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that (1) an answer
to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete, (2) an exercise of the
option to produce documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate, or
(3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct.
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
Request for
Production of Documents
On receipt of a
response to a request for production of documents, the demanding party may move
for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party
deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or
(3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.310(a).)  
Motions to
compel further responses to requests for production of documents must set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
request. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b).) To establish good cause, a discovery
proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action
and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove
that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the
fact. (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
216, 224 disapproved on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531; see also Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 98 (characterizing good cause as “a fact-specific showing of
relevance”).) If good cause is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to
the responding party to justify any objections made to disclosure of the
documents. (Kirkland, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 98.)
Discussion
A.   
Continuance
Request
Considering an opposition
has not been filed in response to the anti-SLAPP Motion, it is understandable
as to why Kamath seeks a continuance. However, Kamath has failed to establish
relief for her continuance request. Within her request, Kamath first states
that the notice of motions now between the court were improper and there lacked
a meet and confer. (Request for Continuance filed on February 23, 2024 at pg. 2.)
To the extent that this argument is directed at Tuggle’s motions to compel
further, the court shall address any purported deficiencies further below. Now,
as directed at the anti-SLAPP Motion, the court finds these initial arguments
to be unpersuasive. First, the enclosed proof of service within the anti-SLAPP
motion indicates that Kamath was served via email on July 11, 2023. The court
record shows that Kamath has manifested her consent through her own conduct by
using electronic service for her filings. (See Proof of Service, dated July 10,
2023 [stating only electronic mail service was used]; Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(c)(3).)
Kamath fails to present any evidence, let alone a declaration, to support her claim
of improper service. 
Second, Kamath
claims that the parties did not meet and confer. However, there is no
requirement for the parties to meet and confer before proceeding with a motion
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16. (Trinity Risk Management, LLC
v. Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (2021) 59 Cal. App. 5th 995,
1008.)
Third, Kamath
argues that a continuance may be provided because Kamath has not had an opportunity
to receive any discovery responses before the anti-SLAPP Motion was filed. (Request
for Continuance filed on February 23, 2024 at pp. 2-3.) “To establish good
cause, the plaintiff must file a noticed motion identifying the specific
discovery sought and showing this discovery is needed ... to establish a prima
facie case and tailored to that end. [Citation Omitted].” (Murray v. Tran
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 10, 37 [internal quotations omitted].) Notably, Kamath’s
request is devoid of the necessary information that the court would need to
find that there is good cause to grant the continuance request.  Therefore, considering Kamath has been on
notice since July 11, 2023 of the anti-SLAPP Motion and she has failed to identify
the specific discovery sought that would establish a prima facie case
for her claims, the court declines to exercise its discretionary authority in
continuing the anti-SLAPP Motion. 
Lastly, Kamath seemingly
seeks to request sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure § 128.5 on the basis that
the anti-SLAPP Motion is frivolous. (Request for Continuance filed on February
23, 2024 at pg. 4, relying on Changsha Metro Grp. v. Peng Xufeng (2020)
57 Cal.App.5th 173.) However, Kamath’s reliance on Changsha Metro Grp. is
misplaced because that case is distinguishable from the case at hand. In Changsha,
the Court of Appeal determined that is was appropriate for the non-movant to
seek sanctions under Section 128.5 within its opposition to an anti-SLAPP
motion because it reasoned that strictly adhering to the safe-harbor provision
of Section 128.5 would contradict the purpose of the anti-SLAPP Act. (Id.,
supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at 181.) Normally, under Section 425.16,
subdivision (f), a hearing for an anti-SLAPP motion must be held no more than
30 days after the service of an anti-SLAPP motion in order to quickly dispose
of SLAPP suits. (Ibid.) If the nonmovant in Changsha sought
strict adherence to the 21-day safe harbor rule under Section 128.5 without
risking expenses associated with drafting an opposition to the anti-SLAPP
motion, then he would have to request a continuance of the anti-SLAPP hearing,
which would not result in the quick disposition of a possible SLAPP suit. (Ibid.)
Unlike in Changsha, the hearing on the anti-SLAPP Motion was not set
within 30 days of service, and this was most likely because of docket
conditions that necessitated a later hearing. Considering the anti-SLAPP Motion
was reserved for February 28, 2024, Kamath had nearly seven months to abide by Section
128.5’s safe harbor provision. Moreover, Kamath’s request for a continuance
without good cause would contradict the purpose of the anti-SLAPP Act. 
Accordingly, the
court denies Kamath’s continuance request. 
B.   
Anti-SLAPP
                                    
i.         
Prong One: Protected Activity
“[T]he only
thing the defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP
statute is that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the
defendant in furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” (Fox
Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.) 
An act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech includes the
following:
(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining
whether a cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on
“the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the
foundation for the claims.” (Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th
481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action is
based on the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning activity.” (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 [emphasis in original].) In making this
determination, the court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.)
As alleged in
the cross-complaint, Kamath claims that Cross-Defendants have initiated a
defamatory lawsuit against her and that she has been injured as a result.
(Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 6, 88-90.) In connection with the first through third causes
of action for defamation, Kamath describes the defamatory statement as “financial
elder abuse” and that it was to mean that Kamath engaged in financial elder
abuse. (Id. at ¶ 95, 98-99, 105.) It is further alleged that this
allegation of engaging in financial elder abuse has caused personal and
professional damages to Kamath’s reputation and image. (Id. at 88.) 
With regard to
the fourth cause of action for malicious prosecution, Kamath alleges that the
Cross-Defendants initiated this underlying complaint against Kamath without probable
cause and asserts that the cause of action for financial elder abuse therein is
without merit. (Id. at ¶¶ 113-114.) 
Lastly, as to
the fifth cause of action for abuse of process, Kamath alleges that the Cross-Defendants
have abused the court’s process and that they had ulterior motives in using the
legal process. (Id. at ¶ 125.) In particular, Kamath’s allegations
suggest that the Cross-Defendants were not forthcoming in what was alleged in
the underlying complaint. For instance, Kamath asserts that Tuggle was not
responsive to Kamath’s communications during her representation (id. at ¶
126), failed to provide appropriate information during the representation (ibid.),
desired to delay foreclosure for as long as possible (id. at ¶ 133), and
could not make necessary payments to Kamath (id. at ¶ 136). As for Conrad,
Kamath alleges that he was responsible for failing to substitute as an attorney
in the federal action but maintained improper communications with the opposing
counsel (id. ¶¶ 127-130, 141, 143), insistent that Kamath should file a
dismissal in the federal action (id. at ¶ 141), provide unsolicited
legal advice to Kamath (id. at ¶ 138), and backdated Kamath’s consent on
a substitution of attorney form in a separate matter (id. at ¶ 144.)
Here, Cross-Defendants
contend that the first five causes of action raised in the cross-complaint
arise out of protected activity because they all relate to statements made in
connection with litigation. First, with regard to the defamation claims,
Cross-Defendants highlight that the cross-complaint does not identify who made
the defamatory remark or what was exactly stated. (Anti-SLAPP Motion at pg.
10.) Rather, based on the allegations, it is evident that the source of the defamation
is the underlying complaint. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 88-89.) Thus, they reason that any
statements regarding financial elder abuse would have been made in connection
with the pending litigation. (Anti-SLAPP Motion at pg. 10.) Cross-Defendants
further point out that, based on initial discovery, Kamath is unable to
identify any statements beyond what is alleged in the underlying complaint. (Ibid.,
Exh. 3.) Thus, Cross-Defendants contend that the alleged conduct falls under
the anti-SLAPP statute. 
Under the circumstances,
the court finds that the conduct alleged under the first through third causes
of action are protected activities because it is alleged that the complaint
itself is the source of the defamation. Therefore, it qualifies as litigation
related conduct. (Kashian v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 892, 909 [asserting
that litigation-related activity is viewed broadly by the courts].) 
Second, Cross-Defendants
argue that the conduct alleged in support of the fourth cause of action for
malicious prosecution constitutes litigation-related activity. (Anti-SLAPP
Motion at pg. 11.) The court agrees. “A complaint for malicious prosecution is
necessarily based on protected speech and petitioning activity.” (Pasternack
v McCullough (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1347, 1355.)
Third,
Cross-Defendants assert that the fifth cause of action for abuse of process falls
within a protected activity under the Anti-SLAPP Statue because the alleged
conduct stems from communication made in connection with issues under
consideration by a judicial body. (Anti-SLAPP Motion at pg. 12.) The court is
persuaded by this argument because “[a]buse of process claims are subject to a
special motion to strike.” (Booker v. Roundtree (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th
1366, 1370.)
Accordingly, the
court finds that Cross-Defendants have met their burden in satisfying the first
prong has it relates to the first through fifth causes of action. 
                                  
ii.         
Prong Two: Probability of
Prevailing
To establish the
likelihood of prevailing, a “plaintiff
must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by
a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if
the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Premier Med. Mgmt.
Sys., Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464,
476 [internal quotations omitted].) In making the prong two determination,
“the court shall consider the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon
which the liability or defense is based.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).) “The court does not, however, weigh
[defendant’s] evidence against the plaintiff’s, in terms of either
credibility or persuasiveness. Rather, the defendant’s evidence is
considered with a view toward whether it defeats the plaintiff’s showing as a
matter of law, such as by establishing a defense or the absence of a necessary
element.” (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.) 
            Because
Kamath has failed to file an opposition to the anti-SLAPP Motion, the Court
finds that Kamath has failed to meet her burden of demonstrating probability of
prevailing on her defamation claims, malicious prosecution claim, and abuse of
process claim.
            Accordingly,
the Court grants the anti-SLAPP Motion in its entirety. 
                                
iii.         
Attorney Fees
A prevailing
defendant as to a special motion to strike is entitled to mandatory, reasonable
attorney fees and costs.  (Civ. Proc. Code § 425.16(c)(1); Ketchum v.
Moses¿(2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1141 -1142; Rylaarsdam, et al., Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2012)
¶7:1120.) The attorneys’ fees and costs recoverable are only those incurred as
to the special motion to strike, and not as to the entire
litigation.  (Lafayette Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Pub. Co.
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1383.) 
Although detailed time records are not required, California
Courts have expressed a preference for contemporaneous billing and an
explanation of work. (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) “Of course, the attorney's testimony must be based
on the attorney's personal knowledge of the time spent and fees incurred. (Evid.
Code, § 702 (a) [‘the testimony of a witness concerning a particular matter is
inadmissible unless he has personal knowledge of the matter’].) Still, precise calculations
are not required; fair approximations based on personal knowledge will
suffice.” (Mardirossian & Associates, Inc. v. Ersoff (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 257, 269.)
Here, Cross-Defendants seek $12,187.75 in attorney fees and costs against
Kamath. (Teitelbaum Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) This amount consists of the following: (1)
18 hours in preparing the instant motion at an hourly rate of $550; (2) 2 anticipated
hours in reviewing the opposition at an hourly rate of $550; (3) 1 hour in
preparing a reply at an hourly rate of $550; (4) 1 hour in attending the
hearing; and (5) $87.75 in costs. However, under the circumstances, the amount
is excessive. First, because no opposition or reply was ever file, the three
anticipated hours associated with those tasks were never incurred. Second, because
appearances will likely be done remotely, it is unlikely that the hearing would
last an hour. Third, because Cross-Defendant’s counsel has failed to provide a billing
record, it is unclear what tasks were actual spent on drafting the anti-SLAPP
Motion. (Lafayette Morehouse, Inc., surpa, 39
Cal.App.4th 1379, 1383.) Considering half of the motion consists of a summary
of the allegations and the legal arguments presented are uncomplicated, it is
unlikely that it took Counsel Teitelbaum 18 hours to draft the instant motion. Therefore,
a reduction in fees is warranted.
Accordingly, the
Court awards Cross-Defendants’ request for attorney fees pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 425.16(c) in the reduced amount of $4,762.75, consisting of 8
hours preparing the instant motion at a hourly rate of $550, .5 hours in attending
the hearing at an hourly rate of $550, and 87.75 in costs. 
C.   
Motions to Compel
Further
Here, Tuggle
seeks to compel further responses from Kamath in connection with his First Set
of Demands for Production of Documents and Second Set of Form Interrogatories. The
pertinent discovery was propounded on January 23, 2023 and Kamath provided her responses
on February 28, 2023. (Mots., Conrad Decls. ¶ 3.) Based on the perception that
these responses were inadequate and improperly included objections, Counsel Conrad
sent a meet and confer letter to Kamath, but she did not respond. (Id.
at ¶ 4.) Thereafter, Tuggle attempted to secure a hearing date for an informal
discovery conference on March 10, 2023, but the court, with Judge Ronald S. Draper
presiding, would not consider the request April 7, 2023, until Kamath’s motion
for reconsideration of her peremptory challenge had been determined. (Mots.,
Conrad Decl. ¶ 4.)
Under the
circumstances, the court finds that these discovery motions are defective for
Tuggle’s failure to meet and confer in good faith before seeking the court’s
intervention. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2030.310(b), 2031.310(b)(2),
a motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040 to show that the moving party has met and
conferred in good faith. It is evident
that meet and confer declarations submitted in support of both motions do not
“state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)  
Based on the
declarations submitted within each motion, Counsel Conrad attests that he
merely sent a single meet and confer letters to Kamath; this was the extent of
Petitioner’s meet and confer attempts. While Tuggle attempted to request an
informal discovery conference, this was only done in compliance with Judge
Draper’s standing order. Also, it is evident by the reply papers, Tuggle has
not taken a meaningful steps to meet and confer in good faith in order to resolve
the discovery issues since filing the instant motions. A reasonable and good
faith attempt means “a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution,”
in other words, counsel must “attempt to talk the matter over, compare their
views, consult, and deliberate.”  (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294.)  The mere delivery of the meet and confer letter
fails to actually show that the parties discussed or negotiated the purported
deficiencies of the responses. Moreover, “[t]he Discovery Act makes no
exception [to the meet and confer requirement] based upon one’s speculation
that the prospect of informal resolution may be bleak.”  (Townsend v.
Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1438.)  
Consequently,
Tuggle’s request for sanctions are denied. With regard to Kamath’s requests for
sanctions, the court finds the request improper because she is self-represented
and cannot recover attorney fees. (See Gorman v. Tassajara Development
Corp., (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 95.)
Accordingly, the
court denies Tuggle’s motion to compel further responses to his Second Set 
Conclusion
            Based
on the foregoing, as to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Reshma Kamath’s request for
continuance, the court DENIES the request because good cause has not
been established to warrant the requested relief. 
Also, the court GRANTS
Cross-Defendants James H. Tuggle, individually and as trustee of the James
Tuggle Family Revocable Living Trust and Robert Conrad’s Special Motion to Strike
under Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16. Thus, the first through fifth causes of
action raised in the cross-complaint are deemed stricken. The request for
attorney fees is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $4,762.75.
Cross-Complainant Reshma Kamath is ordered to tender payment to the
Cross-Defendants’ counsel of record within 45 days of this order. 
Lastly, the
court DENIES Plaintiff James H. Tuggle’s Motion to Compel Defendant Reshma Kamath to Provide Further Responses to
Interrogatory No. 15.1 of Plaintiff’s Second Set of Form Interrogatories and Motion
to Compel Defendant Reshma Kamath to Provide Further Responses to Plaintiff’s
First Set of Demands for Production of Documents and to Produce Documents. The
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: 
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court
 