  Case Number:  23LBCV00936    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundOn May 23, 2023, Plaintiff Michelle Williams, an individual; Michelle Williams, Guardian Ad Litem for Nashton Magee, filed a complaint against Defendant Lourdes Martinez-Lastilla and Does 1 to 20, alleging motor vehicle negligence and general negligence causes of action. Plaintiff alleges that on March 9, 2022 at approximately 7:35 am, at the intersection of East 56th Street and Lemon Avenue in Long Beach, CA, Defendant ran the stop sign on Lemon Avenue and collided in front of Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Compl., at p. 5.) On December 15, 2023, Defendant Lourdes Judith Hernandez erroneously sued and served as Lourdes Martinez-Lastilla filed an answer. On October 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement of entire case. On December 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Petition to Confirm Minor’s Compromise of Disputed Claim.Legal Standard“The guardian or conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem so appearing for any minor, person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions . . . has been appointed shall have power, with the approval of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending, to compromise the same, to agree to the order or judgment to be entered therein for or against the ward or conservatee, and to satisfy any judgment or order in favor of the ward or conservatee or release or discharge any claim of the ward or conservatee pursuant to that compromise.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(3).) “A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's disputed claim; a compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate Code sections 3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form MC-350).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)A court approving a minor and/or person with a disability’s compromise will order and direct payment of reasonable expenses – including attorney’s fees out of the total settlement amount. (Prob. Code, § 3601.) Under Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(1), the Court “must use a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s fees payable from money or property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a disability.” Also, the court must give weight to the terms of any existing representation agreement. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(2).) Other non-exclusive factors to consider include: (1) the fact that a person with a disability is involved, and her particular circumstances; (2) the length and nature of representation; and (3) the time and labor required. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b)(1-14).) “The rule permits, but does not require, the court to allow attorney’s fees in an amount specified in a contingency fee agreement. The amount of attorney’s fees allowed by the court must meet the reasonableness standard of section 3601 no matter how they are determined.” (Advisory Com. Comment to rule 7.955.)AnalysisThe Court has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that the settlement itself is fair and reasonable. The minor claimant here, Nashton McGee, has agreed to dismiss his claims and will receive $3,000.00 from Defendant Lourdes Martinez-Lastilla (“Defendant”). (Pet. ¶ 10.) A settlement payment is also being made to Plaintiff Michelle Williams in the amount of $12,500.00. (Pet., ¶ 11.b; see also Attachment 11.b.6.) It appears, however, Plaintiffs have failed to attach attachment 11.b.3. as required by the Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor. The Petition on page 3 states “explain in Attachment 11b(3) the circumstances and the effect your claim and Its disposition has on the proposed compromise of the claim or action described In this petition.” The Court finds that 11.b.6. is sufficient in terms of content to address the requirements for attachment 11.b.3.The amount of attorney’s fees requested, represents 33 and 1/3 percent of the gross settlement to minor claimant, is $1,000.00. (See Attachment 13a [Declaration of Brent Gerome, Esq. In Support of Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim of Minor, Nashton McGee] ¶¶ 3-7.) The Claimant, through his parent and Guardian ad litem, Michelle Williams, agreed to a 33 1/3 percent contingency fee arrangement. (See Attachment 13a ¶ 5, Attachment 17a [Retainer Agreement].) In relevant part, the retainer agreement provides: “Client agrees that Attorneys shall receive as compensation for such professional services: Thirty-Three and One-Third percent (33 1/3%) of all sums of whatever nature, regardless of the manner or form, received by compromise or settlement, if such compromise or settlement is made before a lawsuit is filed in any Court or before the filing of a Demand for Arbitration; and for Forty percent (40%) of all sums of whatever nature, regardless of manner or form received by compromise, settlement, verdict, award or recovery after the filing of a lawsuit or after the filing of Demand of Arbitration.”(Attachment 17a ¶ 3.)The petition also seeks to use $959.88 to pay for medical expenses. (Pet. ¶¶ 12a, b; Attachment 12b.5.) After payment of all fees and expenses, Claimant is left with a balance of $1,040.12. The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ counsel has set forth sufficient facts breaking down and explaining the legal fees and costs incurred in litigating this matter. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b).)Tentative RulingThe Court will sign the proposed order approving compromise submitted by Plaintiff.