 Case Number:  22STCV11887    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  T Bernabe Rosales v. Kim CordetaMotion for Attorney FeesMoving Party: Plaintiff Bernabe Rosales Responding Party: Defendant Marek Hudec Tentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDOn September 15, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served an offer on Defendant Marek Hudec (“Defendant”) stating: “Plaintiff… offers to have judgment entered… against… Hudec in the amount of $100,000.00, with each party bearing their own respective attorney’s fees and costs through entry of judgment.” (Lee Declaration, ¶ 2; Exhibit A, Plaintiff Offer to Compromise; Exhibit B, September 15, 2023 Email.) Defendant allowed the Offer to expire without objecting or providing a written response. (Lee Declaration, ¶ 3.) On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff served a separate Offer to Compromise on Defendant Kim Cordeta (“Cordeta”) for $15,000.00. (Lee Declaration, ¶ 4; Exhibit C, Plaintiff Offer to Compromise to Cordeta; Exhibit D, February 13, 2024 Email.) Cordeta similarly allowed the offer to expire without objecting or providing a written response.Plaintiff prevailed in a jury trial, which entered judgment against Defendant Hudec in the amount of $276,283.50 and found Cordeta jointly and severally liable for $15,000 of said judgment. (Lee Declaration, ¶ 9; Exhibit F, Judgment.) Maximilian Lee (“Attorney Lee”) spent 93.2 hours proving the matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, and 9. (Lee Declaration, ¶ 10.) Attorney Lee charges an hourly rate of $550. (Lee Declaration, ¶ 26.) Judith Camilleri (“Attorney Camilleri”) spent 33.4 hours proving the matters set forth in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, and 9. (Camilleri Declaration, ¶ 7.) Attorney Camilleri charges an hourly rate of $595. (Camilleri Declaration, ¶ 10.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues he is entitled to attorney’s fees totaling $151,926 against Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2033.420, and that Defendant lacked reasonable grounds to believe he would prevail, and that Defendant had no good reason to admit Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, and 9. (Motion for Attorney Fees, p. 7.)Plaintiff concedes that the issue of the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved were not exceptionally difficult. (Id. at 8.)OPPOSITIONDefendant argues that he had reasonable grounds to believe he would prevail in refusing to admit Plaintiff’s requests for admission, and therefore should not be ordered to pay the expenses incurred by Plaintiff to prove them. (Opposition, p. 3.)REPLY Plaintiff argues Defendant’s contradictory interrogatory responses and deposition testimony made clear that it was more likely than not that Defendant would be found negligent.  (Reply, p. 2.)Plaintiff further argues Defendant could not reasonably have believed he would prevail on issues of causation and damages based on Defendant’s reliance on Dr. Lercel’s opinion that Plaintiff had a pre-existing meniscus and ACL injury to his right knee. (Id.)ANALYSISI. Motion for Attorney FeesCode of Civil Procedure section 2033.420 states: “(a) If a party fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the truth of any matter when requested to do so under this chapter, and if the party requesting that admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that document or the truth of that matter, the party requesting the admission may move the court for an order requiring the party to whom the request was directed to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that proof, including reasonable attorney’s fees. (b) The court shall make this order unless it finds any of the following: (1) An objection to the request was sustained or a response to it was waived under Section 2033.290. (2) The admission sought was of no substantial importance. (3) The party failing to make the admission had reasonable ground to believe that that party would prevail on the matter. (4) There was other good reason for the failure to admit.”If the party failing to admit the request for admissions has good cause in that the issues that were presented by the requested admissions were strenuously contested and difficult to resolve, the party propounding the requests may not recover the statutory costs of proving the truth of the matters therein, even if the matters were eventually proved to be true by uncontroverted evidence (Pappas v. Chang (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 975, 992- 994; Yoon v. Cam IX Trust (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 388, 394; Universal Home Improvement, Inc. v. Robertson (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 116, 129 132.) In evaluating whether a 'good reason' exists for denying a request to admit, “a court may properly consider whether at the time the denial was made the party making the denial held a reasonably entertained good faith belief that the party would prevail on the issue at trial.” (Laabs v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1275 1276; Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 116.)“Whether a party has a reasonable ground to believe he or she will prevail, in the context of requests for admissions heavily reliant on expert opinion evidence.” This consideration depends on factors within the reasonable understanding of the party, including the expert’s qualifications and experience, whether the expert's opinions are likely admissible at trial, “whether the facts underlying the expert's opinions are supported by the evidence, whether the expert's methodology appears reasonable, and whether the expert's analysis is grounded in logic.” (Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 117-118) (italics added.) Moreover, a party’s reasonable belief that it will prevail based on a credible opinion from a qualified expert is not defeated by “the mere fact that an opposing party also has a credible opinion from a qualified expert.” Rather, “[s]omething about the state of the evidence must make the party's reliance on its own expert's opinion unreasonable.” (Id.) Whether a party has reasonable grounds to believe they will prevail is thus necessarily wholistic—requiring consideration of all the evidence known or reasonably available at the time the RFA responses are served. (Id. at 117-118.) It is not appropriate here to grant Plaintiff’s motion for attorney fees because Defendant had reasonable grounds to believe that he would prevail at trial on the issues covered by the subject requests for admission, and reasonably relied on his expert witness testimony in establishing that belief. Courts will generally find a party's reliance on expert opinion evidence unreasonable only where the expert opinion evidence would be inadmissible at trial or where the expert opinion evidence was fatally undermined by facts known to the party, though these circumstances are not exclusive. (Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 121.) Here, Defendant reasonably relied on the testimony of his expert witness, Dr. Gregory Lercel, in establishing a good faith belief he would prevail at trial. Conversely, Plaintiff’s motion tacitly acknowledges that Defendant had a legitimate evidentiary basis to believe he would prevail in attempting to justify Plaintiff’s request for a heightened attorney fee award. Plaintiff explicitly acknowledges Defendant’s case was not trivial, as Plaintiff had “overcome the fact that he struck the rear of Defendant Marek Hudec’s car while in the street, and jurors often assume that individuals who strike the rear of another person’s vehicle are always at fault” and that Plaintiff “had to overcome the opinions of Defendant’s expert witness Gregory Lercel, M.D.” (Motion, p.10.) Based on the record in this case, the Court thus finds that Defendant reasonably relied on the evidence available to him as well as the testimony of his expert witness to believe he would prevail at trial. RULINGBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for attorney fees is DENIED. 