  Case Number:  21STCV23684    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  T Cross Motions to Enforce SettlementTentative Ruling:  Grant Defendant’s MotionBACKGROUND This is a car collision case in which Plaintiff and Defendants agreed to settle the matter for $100,000, provided Plaintiff first complies with the conditions of the Settlement Agreement and Release. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff signed the Release. (Declaration of Andrei Serpik (“Serpik Decl.”), ¶ 2, Ex. A.)Paragraph 5 of the Release requires Plaintiff to provide Defendants with an executed copy of the CMS Affidavit. (Serpik Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. B.) However, Plaintiff returned an incomplete CMS Affidavit to Defendants and refused to provide the requested information because it was “private and confidential.” (Serpik Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. C.)PLAINTIFF’S POSITION Plaintiff argues the Court should enforce his settlement agreement with Defendants to compel Defendants to tender the $100,000.00 value in the settlement agreement in addition and 10 percent interest, in addition to attorney fees and costs in the amount of $1,985.00. Plaintiff argues Defendants entered into a binding written agreement they cannot rescind. (Plaintiff’s Motion to Enforce Settlement, p. 3-4.)DEFENDANTS’ POSITION Defendants argue this Court should compel Plaintiff Hector Calderon (“Plaintiff”) to complete the applicable portions of the CMS Affidavit form as required in Paragraph 5 of the Settlement Agreement and Release Plaintiff signed. (Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement, p. 2.)  Defendants also request this Court award Defendants $2,172.50 in attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in bringing the instant motion. (Serpik Decl., ¶ 3).In opposition to Plaintiff’s motion, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not fulfilled a material condition of the settlement agreement necessary for it to be enforceable by failing to provide a complete CMS Affidavit. Defendants also request this Court award Defendants in the amount of $1,950.00 for the costs incurred with opposing this motion. (Defendants’ Opposition to Motion to Enforce Settlement, p. 3.)ANALYSIS I. Motion to Enforce SettlementThe Court is authorized to enter judgment pursuant to the stipulated settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.)  In reviewing a motion to enforce a settlement, the Court determines “whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.”  (Hines v. Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1182.)  “A settlement is enforceable under section 664.6 only if the parties agreed to all material settlement terms.  [Citations.]  The court ruling on the motion may consider the parties’ declarations and other evidence in deciding what terms the parties agreed to, and the court’s factual findings in this regard are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard.  [Citations.]  If the court determines that the parties entered into an enforceable settlement, it should grant the motion and enter a formal judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Id. at pp. 1182-1183; see also Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1357 [“Strong public policy in favor of the settlement of civil cases gives the trial court, which approves the settlement, the power to enforce it”].)II. Plaintiff’s MotionHere, it is not appropriate in this case to grant Plaintiff’s motion to enforce the Parties’ settlement agreement. The settlement agreement required Plaintiff to provide an executed CMS Affidavit. (Para. 5) The most reasonable interpretation of this requirement is that the provided affidavit must be complete to be executed.  Plaintiff, by failing to provide a complete CMS Affidavit, accordingly fails to satisfy one of the material terms of the settlement agreement, which is a precondition to its enforcement. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion cannot be granted.  III. Defendant’s MotionHere, there is no dispute over whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement. Further the parties stipulated to this Court’s jurisdiction to enforce the settlement. (Para. 21).  As such, this Court has the power to make orders to effectuate the terms of this settlement.The agreement can only be reasonably interpreted as obligating Plaintiff to provide a completed Affidavit.  Section 111 of the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (MMSEA) contains mandatory reporting requirements with respect to Medicare beneficiaries who receive settlements, judgments, awards or other payment from liability insurance. The completed CMS Affidavit is necessary for Defendants to comply with these mandatory requirements.  Plaintiff’s refusal to provide this information thus fails to satisfy Plaintiff’s obligations under the settlement agreement.  Plaintiff executed the settlement agreement and is obligated to comply with its terms.  Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Enforce Settlement and orders Plaintiff to provide a complete and signed Affidavit.   IV. Attorney FeesSection 14 of the Parties’ settlement agreement provides that “In the event an action or a motion is brought by any SETTLING PARTY to enforce this AGREEMENT, the prevailing party in such action or motion shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees and costs actually incurred in connection with such later action.” (Para. 14)  The plain language of Section 14 of the agreement thus anticipates the present motion and provides a basis for recovery to the prevailing party. Defendants are thus entitled to recover the reasonable attorney costs associated with bringing their motion and opposing Plaintiff’s motion.  Defendants request $1,950.00 in sanctions for the costs associated with opposing Plaintiff’s motion. Defendants’ counsel reports charging $325.00 per hour and spending 4 hours preparing an opposition — and anticipates spending 2 hours reviewing Plaintiff’s reply and preparing and attending a hearing on this matter. (Serpik Decl., p. 3.)  Defendants also request the Court award $2,172.50 for the costs associated with their motion.  Defendants’ counsel reports spending 4.5 hours preparing this motion — and anticipated spending an additional 2 hours reviewing Plaintiff’s reply and preparing and attending a hearing on this matter. (Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement, p. 6-7.) The Court finds that the hourly rate is reasonable, but finds significant overlap between Defendants’ motion and the opposition.  Further, Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  The Court finds five hours to be reasonable for defense counsel’s efforts in this manner.  The Court grants Defendants’ request for attorney fees in the amount of $1,625 and costs of $60.  RULING Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement is DENIED.  Defendants’ motion to enforce settlement is GRANTED.  Defendants’ request for attorney fees and other costs is GRANTED in the amount of $1,685.