  Case Number:  22PSCV01233    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center and Ray  Inge’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication   Respondent: Plaintiff Shaunette Miller   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendants Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center and Ray  Inge’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary  Adjudication is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   This is an employment discrimination action. In June 2019,  Plaintiff Shaunette Miller was hired as a human resources director for  Defendant Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (PVHMC) under the direct  supervision of Defendant Ray Inge, PVHMC’s vice president of human resources.  Soon afterwards, Miller alleges Inge began sexually harassing Miller by making  lewd and inappropriate comments to Miller about Inge’s private life and  Miller’s appearance. Miller also alleges Inge singled out Miller by commenting  on Miller’s attire, including scolding Miller for wearing leggings.   As a result of Miller’s refusal to give in to or entertain  Inge’s alleged sexual harassment, Miller alleges Inge began to retaliate  against Miller by yelling at Miller, speaking to Miller in a condescending  manner, and undermining Miller’s authority. Miller further alleges that Inge  discriminated against Miller’s disability by attempting to make Miller feel bad  about using sick days, contacting Miller’s primary care physician to verify  accommodations, and demanding proof of Miller’s physical therapy and chiropractor  visits.   In response to this alleged harassment and discrimination,  Miller made complaints to recruitment supervisor Sandra Shea and benefits  specialist Krystal Garcia. On August 5, 2021, Inge gave Miller a performance  evaluation that allegedly contained untruthful statements about Miller. When  Miller submitted a rebuttal to the evaluation, Inge stated an independent third  party would conduct a review of the performance evaluation and rebuttal. Miller  then alleges the review was conducted by Naomi Nightingale, one of Inge’s close  friends, and that the final report absolved Inge of responsibility. A week  afterwards on August 10, 2022, Inge fired Miller.   On October 12, 2022, Miller filed a complaint against  PVHMC, Inge, and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  sexual harassment in violation of Government Code sections 12940 et seq.; (2)  discrimination in violation of Government Code sections 12940 et seq.; (3)  retaliation in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (4) failure to  provide reasonable accommodations in violation of the Fair Employment and  Housing Act; (5) failure to engage in the interactive process in violation of  the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (6) failure to prevent sexual harassment,  discrimination, and retaliation in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing  Act; (7) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; and (8)  intentional infliction of emotional distress. On February 1, 2023, the court  partially sustained and overruled a demurrer to Miller’s Complaint by PVHMC and  Inge.   On February 21, 2023, Miller filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against the same Defendants alleging the following causes of  action: (1) sexual harassment in violation of Government Code sections 12940 et  seq.; (2) discrimination in violation of Government Code sections 12940 et  seq.; (3) retaliation in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (4)  failure to prevent sexual harassment, discrimination and retaliation in  violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (5) wrongful termination in violation  of public policy; and (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress. On June  30, the court overruled a demurrer to Miller’s FAC by PVHMC and Inge.   On January 17, 2024, PVHMC and Inge filed the present  motion for summary judgment or adjudication. A hearing on the motion is set for  June 25, 2024, along with a case management conference.   ANALYSIS  PVHMC and Inge move for summary judgment or  adjudication on all six of Miller’s causes of action and on Miller’s request  for punitive damages. For the following reasons, the court DENIES the motion.   Legal Standard  A motion for summary judgment or adjudication  provides “courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in  order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact  necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted “if all the evidence submitted,  and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted  by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the opposing party must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) “A motion for summary  adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of  action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)   Sexual Harassment (First Cause of  Action)  PVHMC and Inge argue Miller’s first cause of  action for sexual harassment lacks merit because it is undisputed Inge’s  actions (1) were not so severe or pervasive as to alter the conditions of the  Miller’s employment, (2) were not based on gender, and (3) involved management  of PVHMC’s business. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   Government Code section 12940, subdivision  (j)(1) prohibits harassment of an employee “because of race, religious creed,  color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability,  medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender  identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military  status.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).) “To establish a prima facie case  of harassment, [Plaintiff] must show that (1) [Plaintiff] is a member of a  protected class; (2) [Plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the  harassment was based on [Plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment  unreasonably interfered with [Plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an  intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are  liable for the harassment.” (Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37  Cal.App.5th 549, 563.)   A “hostile work environment form of sexual  harassment is actionable only when the harassing behavior is¿pervasive¿or¿severe.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) In other words, the  harassment must be “severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the  conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as  hostile or abusive to employees because of their sex.” (Miller v. Department  of Corrections (2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 462 (Miller).) Thus, “an  employee generally cannot recover for harassment that is occasional, isolated,  sporadic, or trivial; rather, the employee must show a concerted pattern of  harassment of a repeated, routine, or a generalized nature.” (Lyle v. Warner  Brothers Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283 (Lyle).)   In determining if harassment is severe enough  to be actionable, “[T]he objective severity of harassment should be judged from  the perspective of a reasonable person in the plaintiff's position, considering  all the circumstances. [Citation.]” (Miller, supra, 36 Cal.4th at  p. 462, quoting Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc. (1998) 523  U.S. 75, 81-82 (Oncale).) This is an inquiry requiring “careful  consideration of the social context in which particular behavior occurs and is  experienced by its target” in which “[c]ommon sense, and an appropriate  sensibility to social context, will enable courts and juries to distinguish  between simple teasing or roughhousing . . . and conduct which a reasonable  person in the plaintiff's position would find severely hostile or abusive.” (Ibid,  quoting Oncale, supra, 523 U.S. at p. 81-82.)   Discussion   In the FAC, Miller alleges Inge engaged in  the following acts of sexual harassment. First, in July 2019, Miller alleges  Inge told Miller “about an occasion where a woman tried to come onto him  sexually in a club and flirted with him while his wife was in close proximity.”  (FAC, ¶ 18.) Second, in August or September of 2019, Miller alleges Inge told  Miller “that she should change her Facebook profile picture because it didn’t ‘do  her justice.’” (FAC, ¶ 21.) Miller also alleges Inge told Miller that Miller “was  more beautiful in person than in the profile picture.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) Third, Miller  alleges Inge utilized Inge’s position as a supervisor to critique and comment  on Miller’s clothing on at least four occasions. (FAC, ¶ 23-24.) During the  first two occasions, Miller alleges Inge had Miller come to Inge’s office because  Inge claimed Miller’s “pants were not dress-code compliant.” (FAC, ¶ 25.)  During Miller’s time in Inge’s office, Miller alleges Inge shut the door and  used the opportunity to “leer at her” and inspect Miller “for his own sexual  pleasure.” (FAC, ¶ 25.) On the third occasion, Miller alleges Inge inspected  Miller for approximately ten minutes in Inge’s office with the door closed and  the window shades drawn. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Miller alleges Inge had Miller turn  around so Inge “could see all of the angles of her body from her crotch area to  her buttocks.” (FAC, ¶ 26.) And on the fourth occasion, Miller alleges Inge  carried out the inspection with another female employee present. (FAC, ¶ 26.)   Here, PVHMC and Inge do not point to any  undisputed material facts that establish or refute these allegations. Instead, Defendants  argue that the allegations alone are insufficient to establish pervasive or  severe harassment. (Motion, p. 14:27-16:4.) As to pervasiveness, Defendants  argue it is undisputed that Inge’s “alleged conduct involved three separate and  isolated incidents that occurred over the span of several years.” (Defendants’  Separate Statement (DSS), ¶ 17.) In support of this fact, Defendants cite a  deposition exhibit that purports to describe or outline Miller’s allegations.  (Johnson Decl., Ex. S.) The first two incidents are described as taking place  in July 2019 and August or September of 2019 as alleged in the FAC. (Johnson  Decl., Ex. S, p. 1-2.) But the third allegation of sexual harassment is not  described as a single incident. Instead, it is described as occurring  throughout the year of 2021 on at least three different occasions. (Johnson  Decl., Ex. S, p. 6.)   In arguing isolated and relatively benign  incidents spread over the course of several years are insufficient to establish  pervasive harassment, PVHMC and Inge cite to Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46  Cal.4th 1035 (Hughes). There, our supreme court held a handful of  comments made to the plaintiff over the course of one day were insufficient to  establish pervasive harassment. (Id., at p. 1048.) Here, however, the  court finds the present case involves more. While PVHMC and Inge try to frame  the alleged harassment at issue as isolated and sporadic over the course of  multiple years, this characterization ignores the fact that most of the alleged  harassment occurred within the course of one year in 2021.   PVHMC and Inge also argue that Inge’s  inspection of Miller’s clothing does not constitute harassment because Inge was  carrying out the responsibility of enforcing PVHMC’s dress code. (Motion, p. 14:14-19.)  In support of this argument, PVHMC and Inge cite to Reno v. Baird (1998)  18 Cal.4th 640 (Reno), for the rule that “conduct of a type necessary  for management of the employer’s business or performance of the supervisory  employee’s job” is not harassment. (Id., at p. 646, quoting Janken v.  GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 63 (Janken); Motion,  p. 14:10-12.) But Janken goes on to state the following:   “Making a personnel decision is conduct of a  type fundamentally different from the type of conduct that constitutes  harassment. Harassment claims are based on a type of conduct that is avoidable  and unnecessary to job performance. No supervisory employee needs to use slurs  or derogatory drawings, to physically interfere with freedom of movement, to  engage in unwanted sexual advances, etc. in order to carry out the legitimate  objectives of personnel management. Every supervisory employee can insulate  himself or herself from claims of harassment by refraining from such conduct.”  (Janken, supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at p. 64.)   Thus, a supervisory employee can still engage  in harassment while making personnel decisions if they engage in conduct that  is unnecessary to the execution of their duties. Here, it is undisputed that PVHMC  has a dress code prohibiting certain types of clothing, including leggings. (DSS,  ¶ 7.) It is also undisputed that Inge is responsible for enforcing PVHMC’s  dress code. (DSS, ¶ 8.) However, PVHMC and Inge’s separate statement does not  provide any facts that establish if Miller’s clothing was in violation of  PVHMC’s dress code when Inge conducted the alleged inspections. Nor does their  separate statement provide any facts to establish or to contest the allegation  that Inge’s dress code concerns were unsubstantiated. (FAC, ¶ 23.) Furthermore,  Miller’s allegations go beyond alleging Inge commented on Miller’s clothing.  Miller also alleges Inge’s inspections were conducted alone behind closed doors.  (FAC, ¶ 25-26.) And on one occasion, the inspection lasted a total of ten  minutes and involved Miller having to “twist from side to side” so Inge “could  see all of the angles of her body from her crotch area to her buttocks.” (FAC,  ¶ 26.) A reasonable factfinder could find Inge’s alleged actions were not conducted  for the purposes of enforcing PVHMC’s dress code, but were instead conducted  for Inge’s own gratification. Thus, the court finds that PVHMC and Inge failed  to establish no triable issues of material fact that Inge was enforcing  compliance with PVHMC’s dress code and not sexually harassing Miller as alleged  in the FAC.   Last, PVHMC and Inge argue there is no  evidence Inge’s actions were based on Miller’s gender. (Motion, p. 14:20-26.) True,  but the court also notes there is also no evidence Inge’s actions were not  based on Miller gender. As noted above, PVHMC and Inge failed to present any  undisputed material facts that establish or challenge Miller’s accusations. While  Defendants argue Inge had the responsibility to enforce the dress code, Defendants  failed to present any undisputed material facts that establish enforcement of  PVHMC dress code was the purpose for Inge’s private inspections of Miller.   Accordingly, PVHMC and Inge’s motion is DENIED as to this cause of action.   Discrimination and Retaliation (Second  and Third Causes of Action)  PVHMC and Inge contend Miller’s second cause  of action for discrimination and third cause of action for retaliation fail because  (1) Miller cannot prove Miller suffered from a disability, (2) there was no  causal connection between Miller’s gender or disability and any adverse  employment action, and (3) PVHMC had a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason  for terminating Miller’s employment. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   To establish a prima facie case of disability  discrimination, a plaintiff must show “he or she (1) suffered from a  disability, or was regarded as suffering from a disability; (2) could perform  the essential duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodations[;]  and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because of the disability  or perceived disability.” (Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18  Cal.App.5th 908, 926, quoting Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195  Cal.App.4th 143, 159-160 (Wills).)   “To establish a prima facie case of  retaliation under FEHA, ‘a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a  protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse  employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity  and the employer's action.’” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234  Cal.App.4th 359, 380, quoting Scotch v. Art Institute of California (2009)  173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1020.)   Discussion   PVHMC and Inge first contend that Miller  cannot establish Miller suffered from a disability. (Motion, p. 16:23-24.) The  FAC alleges Miller took two weeks off at the start of Miller’s employment with  PVHMC due to surgery. (FAC, ¶ 31.) In March 2021, the FAC alleges Miller needed  time off to recover from the flu and respiratory issues. (FAC, ¶ 32.) In August  2021, the FAC alleges Miller needed time off to receive care for a hip injury.  (FAC, ¶ 37.) However, the separate statement submitted by PVHMC and Inge fails  to address these allegations. In fact, Defendants’ separate statement does not  reference whether Miller had any medical issues at all, and instead focuses on  the issue of causation. (DSS, ¶ 26, 34, 35, 39.) Thus, the court finds the  first contention is unsupported.   PVHMC and Inge next contend there is no evidence  to suggest a causal link between Miller’s gender or medical condition and  PVHMC’s decision to terminate Miller’s employment. (Motion, p. 16:9-20.) They  also contend Miller was terminated for legitimate and non-discriminatory reasons  involving unsatisfactory performance. (Motion, p. 17:22-18:3.) In support of  these contentions, they rely on the following facts in their separate statement:  first, Defendants state Miller had a total of 61 unplanned absences for  personal reasons between June 28, 2019, and December 1, 2021 (DSS, ¶ 23.); second,  Defendants state Miller’s absences were unrelated to Miller’s leave of absence  for surgery that was taken in 2019 (DSS, ¶ 26), and many of Miller’s unplanned  absences were unrelated to Miller’s health or alleged illness and were taken  for reasons that included running personal errands or handling home  construction issues (DSS, ¶ 34-35.); third, Defendants state Miller’s  absenteeism affected other PVHMC staff and became worse after Miller received  an unsatisfactory performance evaluation (DSS, ¶ 24-25.); and last, Defendants  state Miller’s performance was not satisfactory at the time of Miller’s  termination. (DSS, ¶ 22.)   In each of the facts noted above, the court  finds PVHMC and Inge failed to provide specific citations to evidence. In a  separate statement, Rule 3.1350, subdivision (d)(3) of the California Rules of  Court requires all citations to supporting evidence to include not only the  pertinent exhibits, but also the title, page, and line numbers. While PVHMC and  Inge support these facts with general citations to a thirteen-page report (Inge  Decl., Ex. I) or an exhibit containing fifty pages of text messages (Inge Decl.,  Ex. T), Defendants fail to direct the court to specific page numbers for the  evidence upon which Defendants rely. As such, the court finds these facts  unsupported and declines to consider them in ruling on PVHMC and Inge’s motion  for summary judgment.   In PVHMC and Inge’s separate statement, the remaining  facts are established as follows:  first,  it is undisputed Inge gave Miller a performance review in 2021 that found  Miller “does not meet criteria consistently.” (DSS, ¶ 11.); second, it is  undisputed PVHMC and Inge were unaware  why  Miller took a leave of absence from April 1, 2022, to August 1, 2022 (DSS, ¶ 39.),  and  while Miller’s reply states Miller  disputes this fact in part, Miller failed to identify which part is disputed  and fails to introduce any evidence establishing such a dispute; and last, it  is undisputed that the reason given for Miller’s termination on August 10, 2022,  was poor performance. (DSS, ¶ 32.) Again, Miller disputes this fact in part, but  fails to introduce any evidence supporting such a dispute.   As such, the court finds the remaining facts  are insufficient to carry PVHMC and Inge’s burden on summary judgment. While Defendants  claim “poor performance” as a legitimate and nondiscriminatory reason for  termination, Defendants failed to establish Miller’s termination was for  nondiscriminatory reasons. Outside of the facts that the court has rejected  above for noncompliance with court rules, Defendants failed to provide facts demonstrating  a lack of causal connection between Miller’s alleged medical absences and Defendants’  determination that Miller’s performance fell below standard. Further, to the  extent Defendants rely on the fact that Defendants were unaware of the reasons  for Miller’s 2022 leave of absence, Defendants failed to establish Miller’s  2022 absence was the only grounds for termination.   Accordingly, PVHMC and Inge’s motion is DENIED as to these causes of action.   Failure to Prevent and Wrongful  Termination (Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action)  PVHMC and Inge maintain Miller’s fourth cause  of action for failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, and retaliation,  and fifth cause of action for wrongful termination fail for the same reasons as  Miller’s harassment, discrimination, and retaliation claims. Accordingly, for  the same reasons noted above, PVHMC and Inge’s motion is DENIED as to these causes of action.   IIED (Sixth Cause of Action)  PVHMC and Inge argue Miller’s sixth cause of  action for IIED fails because Miller cannot establish harassment. The court  already rejected this argument in denying Defendants’ motion for summary  judgment on Miller’s harassment claims.   Therefore, PVHMC and Inge’s motion is DENIED as to this cause of  action for the same reasons.   Punitive Damages  PVHMC and Inge contend there is no basis for  Miller to request punitive damages. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   Civil Code section 3294 allows punitive  damages when a plaintiff establishes by clear and convincing evidence that a  defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.  (a).) For the purposes of determining punitive damages, malice is defined as  “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or  despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and  conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a  person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's  rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Lastly, fraud is defined as “an  intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known  to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby  depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)   Discussion   In this case, PVHMC and Inge contend that  even if they are found liable for discrimination or retaliation, that finding  alone is insufficient to justify punitive damages. (Motion, p. 20:20-26.) The  court recognizes it is true that “wrongful termination, without more, will not  sustain a finding of malice or oppression.” (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009)  175 Cal.App.4th 702, 717.) For example, punitive damages are appropriate when  the employer not only intentionally discriminated against an employee but then  attempted to conceal that discrimination with false or pretextual  justifications. (Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 895, 912.)   The court notes, however, that sexual  harassment can also establish oppression. (See Monge v. Superior Court (1986)  176 Cal.App.3d 503, 511.) Because PVHMC and Inge are not entitled to summary  judgment or adjudication of Miller’s sexual harassment claims as noted above, the  court finds Miller has at least one basis on which to request punitive damages.   Accordingly, PVHMC and Inge’s motion for  summary adjudication of punitive damages is DENIED.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, the Court DENIES PVHMC and Inge’s motion for summary judgment  or adjudication.