  Case Number:  23SMCV01823    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



STEALTH SWEETS, INC. d/b/a
  TIDBITS CANDY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MERCENARY CONSULTING LLC, et al.,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.:      23SMCV001823
  Hearing Date:  October 6, 2023 
  Trial Date: 
     March 3, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
MOTION TO SEAL PORTIONS OF AMENDED MOTION FOR ISSUANCE OF LETTERS
  ROGATORY
 
 




 


 



 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
is a family-owned candy company. 
Plaintiff hired Defendants to develop a line of gummy candies in
accordance with certain specifications: (1) formulation of three flavors of the
products working with food scientists to ensure that the products met Plaintiff’s
strict requirements and expectations; (2) finding the right
co-packer/co-manufacturer(s) and product blenders who would manufacture the
products and then to work with those companies to ensure production met
Plaintiff’s specifications; (3) finding and sourcing all ingredients for the
products through multiple non-exclusive vendors who would supply those
ingredients that had been approved by Plaintiff for use in the products; (4)
ensuring that the products were produced according to FDA food safety rules and
in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices; and (v) ensuring that the
packaging and labeling of the products including the Nutrition Facts Panels and
ingredient statements on the products complied with applicable FDA regulations.

 
            Plaintiff
alleges it hired Defendants based on Defendants’ fraudulent misrepresentations
regarding their experience and abilities in product development.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to
develop the gummy candies in accordance with Plaintiff’s specifications.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also charged
them for services that were never done.  
            On
April 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants alleging: (1)
fraud in the inducement; (2) fraud-intentional misrepresentation; (3) unfair
business practices (B&PC §17200); (4) breach of contract; (5) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (6) intentional interference
with contractual relations; (7) intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage; (8) negligent interference with economic advantage; (9)
commercial disparagement; (10) money had and received; (11) unjust enrichment;
(12) conspiracy to defraud.
            The
hearing is on Plaintiff Stealth Sweets, Inc.’s and Cross-Defendants David and
Kristi Vartanian’s (collectively “Plaintiffs”) Motion to Seal Portions of
Motion for Issuance of Letters Rogatory and Motion to Seal Portions of Reply in
Support of Protective Order.  In response
to Plaintiffs’ Motions to Seal, Defendants and Cross-Complainants filed
separate statements of agreement with Plaintiffs’ Motions to Seal.               
Legal Standard
 
            Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to
the public pursuant to CRC 2.550(c).  However,
as stated in Mercury, CRC Rules 2.550 and 2.551 “create a presumption of
public access to some, but not all, court-filed documents. The sealed records
rules ‘do not apply to discovery motions and records filed or lodged in
connection with discovery motions or proceedings. However, the rules do apply
to discovery materials that are used at trial or submitted as a basis for
adjudication of matters other than discovery motions or proceedings.’” Mercury,
supra, 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68 (quoting CRC Rule 2.550(a)(3). 
            As such, the
restrictions (1) that “a record must not be filed under seal without court
order,” (CRC 2.551(a)); (2) that “a court must not permit a record to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties” (CRC
2.551(a)); and (3) that a court may only order a record be sealed if it
expressly makes the NBC findings of fact required under CRC Rule
2.550(d) do not apply to “discovery motions and records filed or lodged in
connection with discovery motions or proceedings.”  
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs move to seal portions of their Amended Motion for Issuance
of Letters Rogatory, the Declaration of Daniell K. Newman ISO Amended Motion
for Issuance of Letters Rogatory and the attached exhibits in support of the
Letters Rogatory.  The Amended Motion for
Issuance of Letters Rogatory is a discovery motion pursuant to CCP §2027.010.  Newman’s declaration in support of the Amended
Motion for Issuance of Letters Rogatory and attached exhibits are records filed
in connection with a discovery motion.  
            As such, CRC
Rules 2.550 and 2.551 do not apply to this Motion to Seal.  The Court need not make express factual
findings under CRC Rule 2.550(d), and the Court may issue an order sealing the
subject documents based solely on the parties’ agreement.  
            Plaintiffs argue
the documents they move to seal contain confidential and proprietary business
and trade information involving key ingredients and formulations for
Plaintiffs’ gummy candy products.  Newman
Dec., ¶2.  Cross-complainants also filed a
statement of agreement with Plaintiffs’ motions to seal.  
            There being no
opposition to the Motion to Seal the Amended Motion for Issuance of Letters
Rogatory, Plaintiffs’ Motion is granted. 
Conclusion
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ Amended Motion to Seal the Amended Motion for
Issuance of Letters Rogatory is GRANTED. 

 
 
Dated:
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior CourtSuperior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



STEALTH SWEETS, INC. d/b/a
  TIDBITS CANDY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MERCENARY CONSULTING LLC, et al.,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.:      23SMCV001823
  Hearing Date:  October 6, 2023 
  Trial Date: 
     March 3, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
AMENDED MOTION FOR ISSUANCE OF LETTERS ROGATORY 




 


 



 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
is a family-owned candy company. 
Plaintiff hired Defendants to develop a line of gummy candies in
accordance with certain specifications: (1) formulation of three flavors of the
products working with food scientists to ensure that the products met Plaintiff’s
strict requirements and expectations; (2) finding the right
co-packer/co-manufacturer(s) and product blenders who would manufacture the
products and then to work with those companies to ensure production met
Plaintiff’s specifications; (3) finding and sourcing all ingredients for the
products through multiple non-exclusive vendors who would supply those
ingredients that had been approved by Plaintiff for use in the products; (4)
ensuring that the products were produced according to FDA food safety rules and
in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices; and (v) ensuring that the
packaging and labeling of the products including the Nutrition Facts Panels and
ingredient statements on the products complied with applicable FDA regulations.

 
            Plaintiff
alleges it hired Defendants based on Defendants’ fraudulent misrepresentations
regarding their experience and abilities in product development.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to
develop the gummy candies in accordance with Plaintiff’s specifications.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also charged
them for services that were never done.  
            On
April 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants alleging: (1)
fraud in the inducement; (2) fraud-intentional misrepresentation; (3) unfair
business practices (B&PC §17200); (4) breach of contract; (5) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (6) intentional interference
with contractual relations; (7) intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage; (8) negligent interference with economic advantage; (9)
commercial disparagement; (10) money had and received; (11) unjust enrichment;
(12) conspiracy to defraud.
            The
hearing is on Plaintiff Stealth Sweets, Inc.’s and Cross-Defendants David and
Kristi Vartanian’s (collectively “Plaintiffs”) Amended Motion for Issuance of
Letters Rogatory filed on September 20, 2023. 
Plaintiffs move for an order pursuant to CCP §2027.010 directing
issuance of letters rogatory addressed to the appropriate courts of judicial
authority located in Ontario, Canada requesting the appointment of a person to
receive the production of documents from Miski Organics, 70 Ellis Drive, Unit
4, Barrie, ON L4N 8Z3, Canada.  
            Defendants
and Cross-Complainants (collectively “Cross-Complainants”) filed a statement of
non-opposition on September 26, 2023.  
Legal Standard
 
CCP §2017.010
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with
this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim
or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.
Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition, and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.
 
CCP §2027.010                      
 
      (a) Any party may
obtain discovery by taking an oral deposition, as described in Section
2025.010, in a foreign nation. Except as modified in this section, the
procedures for taking oral depositions in California set forth in Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 2025.010) apply to an oral deposition taken in a
foreign nation.
 
      (b) If a deponent is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, the service of the deposition notice is effective to compel the deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling.
 
      (c) If a deponent is
not a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent or employee
of a party, a party serving a deposition notice under this section shall use
any process and procedures required and available under the laws of the foreign
nation where the deposition is to be taken to compel the deponent to attend and
to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing for inspection, copying, testing, sampling, and
any related activity.
 
      (d) A deposition taken
under this section shall be conducted under the supervision of any of the
following:
 
(1) A person who is authorized to
administer oaths or their equivalent by the laws of the United States or of the
foreign nation, and who is not otherwise disqualified under Section 2025.320
and subdivisions (b) to (f), inclusive, of Section 2025.340.
(2) A person or officer appointed
by commission or under letters rogatory.
(3) Any person agreed to by all the
parties.
 
            (e) On motion of the party seeking to take an oral
deposition in a foreign nation, the court in which the action is pending shall
issue a commission, letters rogatory, or a letter of request, if it determines
that one is necessary or convenient. The commission, letters rogatory, or
letter of request may include any terms and directions that are just and
appropriate. The deposition officer may be designated by name or by descriptive
title in the deposition notice and in the commission. Letters rogatory or a
letter of request may be addressed: “To the Appropriate Judicial Authority in
[name of foreign nation].”
            
            Letters rogatory
are the usual and accepted method of taking depositions in a foreign country in
a civil law nation.  Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 503, 507.  Commissions or “letters rogatory” “are
basically letters of request to the foreign government, asking it to appoint a
deposition officer and to order the witness to appear and testify before such
officer.”  Weil et al., Cal. Prac.
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2020), ¶ 8:647.  As a discovery matter, whether letters
rogatory for foreign deposition should be issued is generally a question
resting in the discretion of the court.  M.
Kennel, 23 Am. Jur. 2d Depositions and Discovery § 17 (May 2003); see
generally Philippine Export & Foreign Loan Guarantee Corp. v. Chuidian
(1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1058, 1084 (management of discovery matters is within
sound discretion of the court).   
            Although the
cooperation of an unwilling foreign deponent is insured by local courts acting
upon a letter rogatory, the execution of the letter in the first instance rests
upon principles of international comity, and is in that sense discretionary
with the issuing American court. Kennel, supra, 23 Am. Jur. 2d
Depositions and Discovery § 17.  State
courts have the power to issue letters rogatory directly to foreign
governments.  Id. (citing 28
U.S.C.A. § 1781(b)). 
            Courts asked to
enforce a letter rogatory ordinarily presume that the request is proper.  Id. 
There is nothing in the law requiring or suggesting that American courts
should examine information requested by letter rogatory to determine whether
that information comports with the discovery rules of the requesting nation.  Id. 
“Thus, the enforcing court usually does not reach such technical
questions as whether the foreign tribunal has jurisdiction over the case or
whether the evidence sought would be admissible in that court; however, a
United States court may determine if departures from American concepts of
fundamental due process and fairness are involved.”  Id.          
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs move for issuance of letters
rogatory pursuant to CCP §2027.010. 
Plaintiffs seek issuance of a letters rogatory for deposition of the
custodian of record and receipt of production of documents from Miski Organics,
70 Ellis Drive, Unit 4, Barrie, ON L4N 8Z3, Canada.  Plaintiffs seek both deposition of the
custodian of records and production of documents from Miski Organics.  Motion, Attachment 1.
            Plaintiff demonstrates that
deposition of Miski Organics’ custodian of records and production of records are
relevant pursuant to CCP §2017.010.  Defendant
Mercenary Consulting, LLC listed Miski Organics as a vendor of ingredients for
at least three different formulas of food products that were produced for
Plaintiffs.  Newman Dec., ¶2, Ex. B.  Plaintiff’s complaint is based on Defendants’
failure to develop the product in conformity with Plaintiff’s specifications,
including fraudulent misrepresentations regarding what ingredients were used in
the product.  As one of the identified
suppliers of ingredients used in the product, deposition of Miski Organics and
production of documents will either
be “itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.”  Code
of Civ. P., §2017.010.
            Issuance of
letters rogatory is also necessary and convenient per CCP §2027.010(e).  Miski Organics is allegedly located in
Ontario, Canada.  Courts of Ontario
recognize and enforce letters rogatory issued by courts of foreign
jurisdictions pursuant to their rules of court. 
Newman Dec., Ex. C.  Letters
rogatory for a foreign deposition are necessary.  Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v.
Superior Court (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 503, 507.  Defendants do not oppose issuance of letters
rogatory for deposition of Miski Organics. 

Conclusion
            Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s Amended Motion for Issuance of Letters Rogatory is 
 GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
to submit a proposed order.
 
 
Dated:
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court