 Case Number:  BS168107    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANIEL P.
  MOSSIGHI AKA PARVIZ
MOSSIGHI, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
ISAAC MUSIGHI AKA ESHAGH
MUSIGHI,
                                                                             
  
                        Respondent.            
                   


 


     
  CASE NO.:  BS168107
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT AND PERMIT
  FILING OF CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date: October 16, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Respondent
ISAAC MUSIGHI (“Respondent”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Petitioner
DANIEL MOSSIGHI (“Petitioner”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action stems from a long-standing dispute
between Petitioner and Respondent, who are brothers and former business
partners. Together, they operated Pacific M. International Corp. dba PMI
diamonds (“PMI”), a wholesale diamond business. The parties thereafter had disagreements
related to PMI’s management and finances and they agreed to submit their
dispute to binding arbitration. 
 
            The first arbitration regarding
PMI’s dissolution took place over the second half of 2016. In December 2016,
the parties received a binding order after arbitration in favor of Petitioner.  (Request for Judicial Notice [“RJN”], Exh.
A.)  The parties thereafter agreed to submit
to further binding arbitration in April 2017, as the result of which the
arbitrators issued an Amended Binding Order (the “Award”) in favor of
Petitioner for $9,018,291.  (RJN, Exh.
B.) 
 
            On October 11, 2017, this Court
confirmed the Award and entered judgment in favor of Petitioner (the “Judgment”).
 
            On September 6, 2024, Respondent filed
the instant Motion to Set Aside Judgment and Permit the Filing of a Cross-Complaint
(the “Motion”).  Petitioner filed an
opposition to the Motion on October 3, 2024, and Respondent filed a reply on
October 8, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
            Petitioner objects to the two Declarations of Isaac Musighi filed in
support of Respondent’s Motion.  The
objection is SUSTAINED.
             
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Petitioner’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 (Evid. Code § 452(d) and (h).)
 
DISCUSSION
A
trial court has broad discretion to vacate a judgment, dismissal, default
judgment or entry of default that preceded it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.) That
discretion can only be exercised, however, if the moving party establishes a
proper ground for relief, uses the proper procedure and acts within the time
limit set by the statute. (Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)  A party may seek
discretionary or mandatory relief from¿default¿under CCP § 473(b) on grounds of
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.” 
 
            A motion to set aside¿under CCP §
473(b) must be brought within six (6) months of the entry of the order or
judgment; this requirement is jurisdictional.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
473(b).)  The Judgment was entered on
October 11, 2017, yet Respondent did not file the Motion until almost seven
years had passed, i.e., on September 6, 2024 – long after the
jurisdictional limitations period of six months had expired.  The Motion is therefore untimely insofar as it
is brought under CCP § 473(b).
 
            Respondent argues that rather than
being bound by the 6-month jurisdictional time limit of CCP § 473(b), he is
entitled to proceed with the Motion because there is no such time limit for filing
a motion under Section 473(d), which requires a showing of extrinsic fraud.  Respondent contends that Petitioner’s
extrinsic fraud rendered the underlying Judgment void and warrants setting it aside,
even though it was entered in Petitioner’s favor seven years ago.  Respondent asserts that “Petitioner’s
misconduct severely compromised the arbitration process” and that Respondent “was
deprived of a reasonable opportunity to present his case fully,” which “tainted
the entire proceeding, rendering the arbitration’s outcome fundamentally flawed.”  (Motion, p. 11.)
 
To
support his claims of fraud, Respondent enumerates a string of allegedly
fraudulent activities carried out by the Petitioner.  (Motion, pp. 5-6.)  These alleged activities, however, are related
to issues that were already settled or could have been resolved during the
arbitration proceedings seven years ago.  Respondent does not offer any evidence to
support the assertion that the Judgment confirming the arbitration Award was
obtained through fraud.  Thus, there are
no grounds upon which the Court may set aside the Judgment as void.  
 
Having
considered the Motion and Respondent’s contentions regarding alleged fraud by
Petitioner, the Court finds that there is no valid basis for Respondent’s claim
that the Judgment is void due to fraud and therefore subject to being set aside
under CCP § 473(d).  The Motion is
untimely under CCP § 473(b).  The Court
therefore finds that there is no basis under the law to find that the Judgment
should be vacated or that Respondent should be given leave to file a
Cross-Complaint in this action.
            
RULING
            Accordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 16th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



