  Case Number:  21STCV34334    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV34334




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTY:


Specially Appearing Defendant Francisco
  Salas-Corona 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 17, 2021,
Plaintiff Gilberto Vera (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants
Francisco Salas Corona, Alfonso Del Real Montoya, Johnny Lobos, and Does 1 to
10 for injuries related to an alleged motor vehicle accident that occurred on January
31, 2021.
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service of the summons and complaint on Francisco
Salas-Corona. The proof of service shows the summons and complaint was personally
served to Michele Roach, the Director of the Department of Motor Vehicles
(“DMV”), under Vehicle Code sections
17450 and 17454. 
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Francisco Salas-Corona (“Defendant”) now
moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, arguing service was
defective and as such, the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendant. Plaintiff
filed a notice of non-opposition to this motion.   
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for one or
more of the following purposes:¿ (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .”¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10(a).)¿The motion must be filed on or before the last day on which the
defendant must plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow. (Id.) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is
essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]”¿(Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)¿“[T]he filing of a
proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper”
but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such
proofs.”¿(Id. at 1441-42.) ¿On a motion to quash service of summons, the
plaintiff has the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence the
prima facie facts entitling the court to assume jurisdiction, including whether
service was in compliance with statutory requirements. (Lebel v Mai
(2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1160.) A court may rely upon the verified
declarations of the parties and other competent witnesses. (Buchanan v. Soto
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if
there has not been proper service of process.”¿(Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
 
By driving a car in California, any non-resident (U.S.
citizen or foreign national) appoints the Director of the DMV as agent for
service of process in any action arising out of an auto accident. (Litwin v.
Estate of Formela (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 607, 613 (citing Vehicle Code §
17451).) “[T]he Vehicle Code provides a method whereby persons from outside
California, who become involved in litigation as the result of their use of a
motor vehicle on the highways of this state, may be sued here and, although they
have left the state, may be effectively served with process so that in personam
judgments may be rendered.” (Litwin, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at
613.) 
 
Vehicle Code section 17454 contains that method: 
 
“Service of
process shall be made by leaving one copy of the summons and complaint in the
hands of the director or in his office at Sacramento or by mailing either by
certified or registered mail, addressee only, return receipt requested, the
copy of the summons and complaint to the office of the director in
Sacramento…such service shall be a sufficient service on the nonresident
subject to compliance with Section 17455.” 
 
Vehicle Code section 17455 requires that: 
 
“A notice
of service and a copy of the summons and complaint shall be forthwith sent by
registered mail by the plaintiff or his attorney to the defendant. Personal
service of the notice and a copy of the summons and complaint upon the
defendant wherever found outside this State shall be the equivalent of service
by mail.” 
 
Vehicle Code section 17456 sets forth the manner of proving
service: 
 
“Proof of
compliance with Section 17455 shall be made in the event of service by mail by
affidavit of the plaintiff or his attorney showing said mailing, together with
the return receipt of the United States post office bearing the signature of
the defendant. The affidavit and receipt shall be appended to the original
summons which shall be filed with the court from out of which the summons
issued within such time as the court may allow for the return of the
summons.”  
 
In short, to serve a defendant through the DMV a plaintiff
must both serve a copy of the summons and complaint on the DMV and
mail another copy directly to the defendant. Under Section 17456, any proof of
service must include a receipt signed by the defendant, indicating that the
defendant has actually received the package. “In compelling proof of service by
a return receipt ‘bearing the signature of [the] defendant’ the statute
requires actual delivery to the defendant by registered mail of a copy of the notice,
summons, and complaint.” (Weisfeld v. Superior Court (1952) 110
Cal.App.2d 148, 151.) 
            
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to show that
he was a non-resident of California when the accident occurred. Additionally,
he argues that the proof of service fails to show under section 17455, that notice
of service was sent to Defendant by registered mail. The Court notes that the
proof of service filed on March 8, 2024 fails to show that a copy of the
summons and complaint was mailed to Defendant. Plaintiff does not oppose this
motion and therefore fails to meet his burden to show that Defendant was a
non-resident at the time of the accident and that he complied with Vehicle Code
section 17455. As a result, the motion to quash is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Specially Appearing Defendant Francisco
Salas-Corona’s motion to quash service of
summons and complaint.
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 