 Case Number:  22STCV25510    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


July
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV25510




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Defendant
  Berry Bowl Los Angeles, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


None
  



 
MOTION
 
Cross-Defendant Berry Bowl Los Angeles, LLC (“Cross-Defendant”) moves
to continue trial and all related dates. No opposition has been filed.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves injuries from a sliding gate that occurred on July
28, 2022. The complaint was filed on August 8, 2022. Trial was initially set
for February 5, 2024.  
 
Defendants Viken Ouzounian, Raquel Ouzounian, VRCC York, LLC, VRCC
Lincoln, LLC, Don’s Auto repair & RV Center, and Don’s Auto Repair & RV
Center (“Defendants”) filed an answer on November 3, 2022. 
 
On January 11, 2024, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued
trial to August 5, 2024, and granted leave to Defendants to file a cross
complaint. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants filed a cross-complaint for equitable
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and express indemnity against “Berry
Bowl” and Roes 1 to 25. 
 
On May 14, 2024, Cross-Defendant (sued erroneously as Berry Bowl),
filed an answer to the cross complaint. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard 
 
¿“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone &
Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion
in considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.¿ 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition
of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).)  
 
“A party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
 
1.    
The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
2.    
The unavailability of a party
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
3.    
The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
4.    
The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
5.    
The addition of a new party
if: 
A.   
The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
B.   
The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; 
6.    
A party’s excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
7.    
A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.”  
8.    
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include: 
 
1.    
The proximity of the trial
date; 
2.    
Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
3.    
The length of the continuance
requested; 
4.    
The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
5.    
The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
6.    
If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
7.    
The court’s calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
8.    
Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial; 
9.    
Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; 
10.  Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance,
by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
11.  Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Discussion
 
Here, Cross-Defendant seeks to continue trial and all related dates to
May 22, 2025. Cross-Defendant argues the continuance is needed because it
entered this case on May 14, 2024, and thus requires more time to conduct
discovery. Additionally, it contends that Plaintiff is still treating injuries
and that all parties have stipulated to the continuance. Cross-Defendant
estimates that it will need 40 to 60 days to conduct written discovery and 3 to
5 months to receive Plaintiff’s subpoenaed medical records. (Shaw Decl. ¶ 6.)
As a result, Cross-Defendant requests 7 to 9 months to prepare a defense. 
 
However, Cross-Defendant does not explain its diligence in conducting
discovery since May 2024, nor does it describe with specificity the outstanding
discovery. Accordingly, Cross-Defendant does not justify the need for a lengthy
continuance.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS in part Cross-Defendant’s motion to continue
trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to January 16, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to January 30, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All discovery and motion deadlines are associated with the new trial
date.
 
Cross-Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.