 Case Number:  22STCV28270    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28270




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Bernard Nellom




OPPOSING PARTY:


 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 30, 2022, Plaintiff Bernard Nellom (“Plaintiff”) filed a form complaint
against Defendants Watson H. Family Living Trust, HW Property
Management, Inc., and Does 1 to 10 for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges that on November 19, 2020, he was injured on property owned by
Defendants that contained defective ceilings, floors, and stairs. 
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Hubert Watson as Doe 1. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend his
complaint in order to add Doris Sturgis as a plaintiff and assert the following
additional causes of action: Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability;
Breach of the Statutory Warranty of Habitability; Nuisance; Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty; Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and Breach of Contract. The proposed amended
complaint also sought injunctive relief, attorney’s fees, and punitive damages.
 
On May 21, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
amend. (Min. Order, 5/21/24.) 
 
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to file
a first amended complaint. The proposed first amended complaint again adds
Doris Sturgis as a plaintiff but sets forth fourteen causes of action: Breach
of the Implied Warranty of Habitability; Breach of the Statutory Warranty of
Habitability; Nuisance; Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; Negligence;
Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty; Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; Breach of Contract; Premises Liability; multiple violations of the Inglewood
Municipal Code; and a violation of Civil Code section 1940.2.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held: “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff does not address the propriety of
bringing this motion again after it was denied on May 21, 2024. This motion
appears to be solely brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a). 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 limits a party’s ability to file
repetitive motions. (Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1104.)
“This section specifies the court's jurisdiction with regard to applications
for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies
to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(e).) The burden under
Section 1008 for a motion to renew “is comparable to that of a party seeking a
new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be
such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior
Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13; Even Zohar Construction &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833
[finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not
only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show
diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different
information earlier…”].)¿¿
 
Turning to the merits, the original complaint arose out of an incident
on November 19, 2020, when Plaintiff attempted to open the locked front door of
his apartment located at 11130 S. Freeman Avenue in Inglewood, California.
Plaintiff alleges that as he tried opening his door, he stepped back, and due
to slope and deficiencies of the steps, lost his footing and fell. (Motion, 7.)

 
The proposed amended complaint alleges issues with the subject
apartment, which Plaintiffs have lived at since March 1, 2013. It alleges that
Plaintiffs did not notice any structural defects upon first beginning their
tenancy. (Exh. J, Proposed FAC ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were
informed of the defective condition of the stairs during an August 15, 2020
housing inspection. After Plaintiff allegedly fell down the stairs on November
19, 2020, the amended complaint asserts that subsequent housing inspections
found issues with, among other things, leaking water, a roach infestation, and
a bathtub needing reglazing, which Defendants failed to fix. 
 
Plaintiff argues that recent findings in discovery support the
addition of the proposed causes of action and adding a new plaintiff to this
case. On May 15, 2023, the Hawthorne Housing Authority produced requested
documents showing the history of habitability issues with the unit. (Howard
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff deposed the person most
knowledgeable of HW Property Management, Ebony Doris. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. E.)
The transcripts provided show that Ms. Doris was questioned on the May 2023 Housing
Authority records and the purported defects that were reported. Additionally,
Plaintiff contends that Defendants filed an unlawful detainer action against Sturgis
on April 30, 2024, which was in retaliation for this lawsuit. (Id. ¶ 8.)

 
However, counsel’s declaration does not explain how the discovery disclosed
for the first time a new plaintiff, who has been residing with the named
plaintiff apparently since 2013. In addition, the declaration does not explain
how the May 2023 documents or the April 2024 deposition revealed information
not already known to plaintiffs regarding the habitability issues. The FAC
itself alleges various inspections that identified habitability issues. (See
FAC ¶¶ 17-26.) In addition, the declaration does not explain the delay in
filing the motion until May 2024, given the May 2023 document production.
Finally, although Plaintiff asserts an unlawful detainer action was filed on
April 30, 2024 in retaliation, the declaration of counsel reflects that the
unlawful detainer complaint was against Sturgis, not the currently named
plaintiff. (Howard Dec. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff does not sufficiently respond to
Defendant’s arguments that the proposed amendments assert an entirely different
legal obligation against Defendant including as to a new plaintiff, or respond
to Defendant’s argument that the proper course is for that plaintiff to file a
separate habitability action, or respond to Defendant’s argument regarding the
prejudice of asserting new legal obligations, a new plaintiff, and a new claim
for punitive damages given a January trial date. Plaintiff generally asserts
that “all causes of action arise from the same set of operative facts.” (Reply
at p. 2.) This argument is too broad. As Plaintiff’s motion itself
acknowledges, the original complaint related to a fall based on deficient steps.
The proposed FAC relates to a number of issues regarding a different
plaintiff’s tenancy. Regarding prejudice, Plaintiff again generally asserts
that the “newly discovered evidence indicates that Defendant were already aware
of the underlying issues” and that “discovery is still ongoing, providing ample
time for all parties to engage fully in the process.” (Reply at p. 2.) However,
as Defendant argues, trial is set for January 2025, for a case that was filed
in August 2022, and the discovery at issue relates to new claims and punitive
damages.
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion for leave to file an amended
complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint
is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 