 Case Number:  23STCV05424    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DARREN KUBES,  
  
         vs.
 
SENA
  TECHNOLOGIES, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV05424
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 26, 2024



 
Moving Defendants Sena
Technologies, Inc.’s, Lemans Corporation’s, and Western Power Sports, LLC fdba
Western Powers Sports’ unopposed application for an order admitting Daniel
J. Kain to appear pro hac vice is denied without prejudice.

Moving
Defendants Sena Technologies, Inc.’s, Lemans Corporation’s, and Western Power
Sports, LLC fdba Western Powers Sports’ unopposed application for an
order admitting Charles Gilliam-Brownlee to appear pro hac vice is granted.
 
          Defendants Sena Technologies, Inc. (“Sena”), Lemans Corporation
(“Lemans”), and Western Power Sports, LLC fdba Western Powers Sports (“WPS”) (collectively,
“Moving Defendants”) apply unopposed to permit Daniel J. Kain (“Kain”) of
P& K Park LLP to appear pro hac vice on their behalf.  (Notice Pro Hac Vice Kain, pg. 2; CRC, Rule
9.40.) 
Moving Defendants apply unopposed
to permit Charles Gilliam-Brownlee (“Gilliam-Brownlee”) of P& K Park LLP to
appear pro hac vice on their behalf. 
(Notice Pro Hac Vice Gilliam-Brownlee, pg. 2; CRC, Rule 9.40.)
 
          Background
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff Darren
Kubes (“Kubes”) (“Plaintiff”) filed his initial complaint (“Complaint”).  On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Moving Defendants and
Non-moving Defendant Helmet House, LLC, alleging seven causes of action: (1) strict
liability- manufacturing defect; (2) strict liability- design defect;
(3) negligence (I); (4) negligence (II); (5) negligence- failure to recall; (6)
breach of implied warranty of merchantability; and (7) Consumer Legal Remedies
Act.
On May 20, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed the instant application for Kain to be admitted pro hac vice.  On May 24, 2024, Moving Defendants filed the
instant application for Gilliam-Brownlee to be admitted pro hac vice.  As of the date of this hearing Plaintiff has
not filed an opposition.
 
Motion
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “[a]n applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice
under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”
 
1.    
Kain’s
Application
Moving Defendants’ application
on behalf of Kain provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d).  Moving Defendants submitted proof that the
$50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Decl. of Kain ¶8,
Exh. A.)  Moving Defendants’
proof of service on the application does not indicate that the State Bar
of California was provided notice of the hearing of this application, however, Kain
declares that he caused to be served upon the State Bar of California a copy of
this Application.  (C.R.C., Rule
9.40(c)(1); Decl. of Kain ¶8; see POS Kain.)
Kain also appears to have
been admitted pro hac vice in three other cases in California within the last
two years.  (Decl. of Kain ¶4.)  Kain must demonstrate to this Court how much
time in the last two years has been spent on those three other California
cases.
Moving Defendants have
provided this Court with Kains’ bar numbers in Pennsylvania (308299) and New
Jersey (006952010). While this requirement is not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule
9.40, the Court needs this number to enter Kain’s application into the Court’s
system.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s unopposed
motion for an order admitting Kain to appear pro hac vice is denied, without
prejudice.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
2.    
Gilliam-Brownlee’s
Application
Moving Defendants’
application on behalf of Gilliam-Brownlee provides the information required by C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d).  Moving Defendants submitted
proof that the $50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Decl. of Gilliam-Brownlee
¶9, Exh. A.)  Moving Defendants’ proof of
service on the application does not indicate that the State Bar of
California was provided notice of the hearing of this application, however,
Gilliam-Brownlee declares that he caused to be served upon the State Bar of
California a copy of this Application. 
(C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1); Decl. of Gilliam-Brownlee ¶9; see POS Gilliam-Brownlee.)
Gilliam-Brownlee also appears
to have filed an application to appear pro hac vice in one other case in
California within the last two years. 
(Decl. of Gilliam-Brownlee ¶5.)
Moving Defendants have
provided this Court with Gilliam-Brownlee’s bar numbers in Pennsylvania (322634).
While this requirement is not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the Court needs
this number to enter Gilliam-Brownlee’s application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s unopposed
motion for an order admitting Gilliam-Brownlee to appear pro hac vice is granted.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  