 Case Number:  22PSCV01609    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant B.R. Building Resources Company’s Demurrer to
Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED as MOOT.
2.         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant B.R. Building Resources Company’s Motion to
Strike the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
3.         Cross-Defendant Juan Banos’ Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint is
DENIED as MOOT. 
Background   
Case No. 22PSCV01609
Plaintiff B.R. Building Resources Company (“B.R.”) alleges
as follows:
B.R. is a boutique builder. Defendants
SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC (“SAH Acquisition”), SA Hospital Real Estate
Holdings, LLC (“SAH Real Estate”) and SA Hospital Real Estate
Holdings-Jefferson, LLC (“SAH Jefferson”) (hereinafter collectively, the “SAH
Defendants”) own and/or operate the South City Hospital (“Hospital”) in St.
Louis, Missouri. Defendants Lawrence Feigen (“Feigen”) and Jeffrey Ahlholm
(“Ahlholm”) are the owners/agents of the SAH Defendants. B.R. and the SAH
Defendants entered into a “Master Service Agreement” (“MSA”), wherein B.R.
agreed to perform different categories of construction projects to improve the
Hospital. The funding for the projects to be completed by B.R. was provided by
Twain Financial Partners (“Twain”). The SAH Defendants had an agreement with
Twain to provide the funding directly to B.R. upon completion of certain work
related to the projects. These funds were deposited into an escrow account
(“Construction Fund”). Twain was to make deposits to the Construction Fund on a
per project basis. B.R. entered into twelve subcontracts (“AIA Contracts”) with
the SAH Defendants, each of which pertained to specific construction work to
improve different portions of the Hospital. B.R. was to be paid $15,537,397.16
to perform the work contemplated in the AIA Contracts. To date, Twain has
provided $6,460,063.24 in funds to the Construction Fund. 
On January 3, 2022, Feigen and asked
B.R. to give them $826,937.00 from the Construction Fund to cover operating
costs for the Hospital. On this same date an additional $200,000.00 from the
Construction Fund was given to Feigen and Ahlholm upon requesting funds from
B.R. and assuring B.R. they had approval from Twain to make this request. On
March 3, 2022, Feigen and Ahlholm made another request for B.R. to give
$400,000.00 directly to Modern HR Payroll Company from the Construction Fund to
cover the Hospital’s payroll expenses, again assuring B.R. they had Twain’s
approval. On April 26, 2022, B.R. met with Dave Merrifield, an employee of
Twain, to discuss funding for ongoing projects, at which time B.R. learned that
Twain did not know that Feigen and Ahlholm had requested Construction Funds
from B.R., nor that B.R. had transferred Construction Funds to Feigen and
Ahlholm. Twain subsequently stopped funding the projects, which has rendered
B.R. unable to complete the AIA Contracts.
Also, since January 2022, B.R. entered
into a contract to rent a boiler and a chiller to service the Hospital. B.R.
was instructed by the SAH Defendants, by and through Feigen and Ahlholm, to use
the Construction Fund to pay for the aforesaid service as. Due to no longer
receiving fund deposits to the Construction Fund, B.R. is unable to continue
paying the rental fees for the boiler or chiller or any other temporary
services.
On June 21, 2023, B.R. filed an “Amendment to Complaint,”
wherein Modern HR, Inc. (“Modern HR”) was named in lieu of Doe 1.
On August 21, 2023, Modern HR filed a cross-complaint,
asserting causes of action against SAH Acquisition, Feigen, Ahlholm and Roes
1-10 for:
1.                 
Contractual Indemnification
2.                 
Equitable Indemnification
3.                 
Intentional Misrepresentation
4.                 
Declaratory Relief
On November 14, 2023, B.R. filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), asserting causes of action against the SAH Defendants, Feigen,
Ahlholm, Modern HR and Does 2-25 for:
1.                 
Fraud and Deceit
2.                 
Breach of Contract
3.                 
Penal Code § 496(c)
4.                 
Defamation Per Se
5.                 
Money Had and Received
On December 15, 2023, the SAH Defendants, Ahlholm and Feigen
filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against B.R., Juan Banos
(“Banos”) and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Fraud in the Concealment 
3.                 
Fraud in the Deceit
4.                 
An Accounting
5.                 
Unjust Enrichment 
6.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
On March 15, 2024, the court related Case Nos. 22PSCV01609
and 23PSCV03948; Case No. 22PSCV01609 was designated as the lead case.
A Case Management Conference and a Status Conference Re:
Related Case are set for May 8, 2024.
Case No. 23PSCV03948
Plaintiff Trane U.S. Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On/about and between March 31, 2022 and
May 4, 2024, Plaintiff and Defendants B.R. Building Resources Company fka B.R.
& Sons Co. (“B.R. Resources”) and B.R. & Co., Inc. (“B.R. Co.”) entered
into several written Equipment Leases, wherein Plaintiff provided equipment to
B.R. Resources and B.R. Co. on credit in exchange for B.R. Resources’ and B.R.
Co.’s promise to pay monthly lease payments to Plaintiff. B.R. Resources and
B.R. Co. have failed to make payments due.
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint,
asserting causes of action against B.R. Resources, B.R. Co. and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Open
Book Account 
3.                 
Account
Stated 
On February 5, 2024,
B.R. Resources filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against
SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC (“SAH Acquisition”), SA
Hospital Real Estate Holdings, LLC (“SAH Real Estate”), SA Hospital Real Estate
Holdings—Jefferson LLC (“SAH Jefferson”) (hereinafter collectively, the “SAH
Defendants”), Lawrence Feigen, Jeffrey Ahlholm, Twain GL XXV, LLC and Roes 1-10
for:
1.                 
Equitable Indemnity
2.                 
Unjust Enrichment 
A Status Conference Re: Related Case is set for May 8, 2024.
1.         B.R.’s Demurrer
to Cross-Complaint
Discussion
B.R. demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10,
subdivision (e), to the second through fifth causes of action in the SAH
Defendants’, Ahlholm’s and Feigen’s cross-complaint, on the basis that they
each fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action in . B.R.
also demurs, per subdivision (f), to the second, third and fifth causes of
action on the basis of uncertainty.
B.R.’s demurrer is summarily overruled as moot, based on the
ruling made on the motion to strike [see below].
2.         B.R.’s
Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
B.R. moves the court for an order striking out the SAH
Defendants, Ahlholm and Feigen’s cross-complaint in its entirety, on the basis
that it was untimely filed without leave of court.
B.R.’s motion is granted. “A party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a
cross-complaint setting forth. . . : (a) Any cause of action he has against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him…” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.10, subd. (a).) “A party shall file a cross-complaint against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (a).)
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party against
whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint
any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the
complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any
other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not
pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) A “[r]elated cause of action’
means a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence,
or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the
plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50). 
On November 1, 2022, B.R. filed its original complaint. On
January 30, 2023, the SAH Defendants, Ahlholm
and Feigen filed their answer. On November 14, 2023, B.R. filed its FAC. On
December 15, 2023, the SAH Defendants, Ahlholm and Feigen filed their
cross-complaint, without seeking leave to amend or a stipulation from the
parties.
The cross-complaint makes claims that “arise[] out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action which [B.R.] alleges in [the] complaint;” more specifically,
the cross-complaint and complaint both stem from the same agreements entered
into between the parties (i.e., the “Master Service Agreement” and ancillary
AIA contracts) and allege misappropriation of funds from a “Construction Fund”
designated for construction projects at the South City Hospital. The SAH
Defendants, Ahlholm and Feigen concede in Paragraphs 40 and 41 of their
cross-complaint that they have known of the claims alleged in the
cross-complaint since at least September 26, 2022, which is over 4 months prior
to the time of their answer to B.R.’s original complaint (i.e., “[i]t was not
until September 26, 2022 that BR Building provided an itemized expense
breakdown (through an Excel spreadsheet) to the Cross-Complainants. On
information and belief, this Excel spreadsheet contained illegitimate
surcharges and suspicious payments to BR Builders’ affiliated vendors.
Moreover, BR Builders’ failed to account for all of the funds that it received
from the Construction Fund . . .”).
B.R.’s motion, then, is granted. The court strikes out the SAH
Defendants, Ahlholm and Feigen’s cross-complaint filed December 15, 2023 in its
entirety.
3.         Banos’
Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint
Based upon the ruling made on B.R.’s motion to strike, Banos’
motion is denied as moot.