  Case Number:  21STCV19312    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Claudia and Josue
Morales filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial Medical
Center, Memorial Health Services, Praveen R. Jonnala, M.D., and Ali Khoynezhad,
M.D., PhD for negligence, hospital negligence, and loss of consortium.  The complaint arises out of Defendants’ care
and treatment of Claudia Morales for cardiothoracic surgery.  
 
2.     Motions
for Summary Judgment
a.     Parties’
Positions
There are two summary judgment
motions on calendar today.  The first
motion was filed by Defendants, LBMMC, Ali Khoynezhad, M.D., Ph.D., and
Memorial Health Services.  The second motion
was filed by Defendant, Praveen R. Jonnala, M.D.  The crux of each motion is the same.  The defendants contend they are entitled to judgment
as a matter of law because expert testimony shows the moving defendants complied
with the standard of care at all times and nothing they did caused or
contributed to Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries. 

 
Plaintiffs filed a notice of
non-opposition to Dr. Jonnala’s motion. 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the remaining three defendants’ motion,
contend their expert opines Dr. Khoynezhad breached the standard of care, the
breach caused their damages, and the entity defendants are liable for the
breach and damages.
 
Defendants, in reply, contend the
Court should grant Dr. Jonnala’s motion because it is unopposed.  They contend the Court should grant the
remaining defendants’ motion because many of the purportedly disputed facts are
not disputed, and because Plaintiffs’ expert’s declaration does not meet the
evidentiary standard required under the law to raise a triable issue of
material fact.  
 
b.     Law Governing Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony. 
Id.  If the “common knowledge”
exception does not apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is
conclusive and cannot be disregarded. 
Id.  
 
A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the
circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
c.     Law Governing Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. 
[Citations.]  That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical
'possibility' needs little discussion. 
There can be many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of
circumstances which can produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only
becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable causal
explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a result of
its action.  This is the outer limit of
inference upon which an issue may be submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp.
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
d.     Dr. Jonnala’s Motion
Because Plaintiffs filed a notice of
non-opposition to Dr. Jonnala’s motion, it is granted.
 
e.     Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiffs filed evidentiary objections
with their opposition papers.  Plaintiffs
object to ¶3 of Dr. LeMaire’s declaration on the ground that Dr. LeMaire declares
he reviewed the transcript of the deposition of Ali Khoynezhad, M.D. and
plaintiffs’ responses to special interrogatories, but neither the deposition
transcript nor the discovery responses are attached to the declaration.  Plaintiffs also object to the entire declaration
on the ground that, if the materials relied upon are not attached, then the entire
declaration lacks foundation.
 
Plaintiffs rely on Garibay v.
Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 735 to support their objection.  Garibay held that experts must attach copies
of records upon which they rely in forming their expert opinions.  The objection is sustained.  Notably, Defendants do not address the
objection in reply. 
 
f.      Analysis
Defendants, in reply, focus on whether or not Plaintiffs’ evidence
sufficiently raises a triable issue of material fact.  They fail, however, to address Plaintiffs’
objections, which were filed with the opposition papers.  Because the objections are sustained, the entirety
of Defendants’ expert’s opinion is excluded, and Defendants fail to meet their
moving burden to show they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  The summary judgment motion is therefore denied.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.