 Case Number:  22STCV11375    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Prior Hearing on Summary Judgment Motion 
The Court was previously scheduled to hear this motion on
12/19/23.  Prior to the hearing, the Court
issued a tentative ruling granting the motion in full.  At the conclusion of the hearing, the Court
asked for further briefing on the issue of whether Gov Code §§820.2 and 820.4 provide
immunity to Defendants from Plaintiff’s claims. 
Notably, the Court’s original tentative ruling on this issue was as
follows:
Moving parties further contend that Khemiri is immune from liability
under Government Code §§ 850.2 and 850.4. 

 
 “Neither a public entity nor a
public employee is liable for failure to establish a fire department or
otherwise to provide fire protection service.” 
(Gov. Code § 850.) “Neither a public entity that has undertaken to
provide fire protection service, nor an employee of such a public entity, is
liable for any injury resulting from the failure to provide or maintain
sufficient personnel, equipment or other fire protection facilities.” (Gov.
Code § 850.2.) “Neither a public entity, nor a public employee acting in the
scope of his employment, is liable for any injury resulting from the condition
of fire protection or firefighting equipment or facilities or . . . for any
injury caused in fighting fires.”  (Gov.
Code § 850.4.)   
 
The fire protection service statutes are construed to “‘provide for a
broad immunity from liability for injuries resulting in connection with fire
protection service.’” Cairns v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 62 Cal.App.4th
330, 335.  In Varshock v. Department of
Forestry & Fire Protection (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 635, the court examined
the language of Government Code section 850.4 and concluded “that by relieving
public entities and employees of liability ‘for any injury caused in fighting
fires’ under section 850.4, the Legislature intended immunity to apply to any
claim based on death, personal injury, or property damage that results from an
act or omission of a public entity or employee while responding to or combating
an actual fire.”  Varshock, supra, at
642.  Courts have applied section 850.4
broadly to a wide range of government activities.  See, e.g., Cairns, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th at
336 (statutory immunity applied to bar nuisance claim stemming from city’s and
county’s continued road closure that made firefighter ingress and egress
virtually impossible); People ex rel. Grijalva v. Superior Court (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078 (statutory immunity applied to bar affirmative defenses
including comparative negligence against complaint filed by California
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection to recoup firefighting costs, even
though the department’s premature demobilization of firefighting resources
caused the fire’s severity); Bettencourt v. State of California (1975) 51
Cal.App.3d 892, 894 (government immunity for loss of cattle that escaped
through wire fence cut by firefighters to fight grass fire). 
 
Here, the fire protection statutes provide immunity to Khemiri. The
subject valve fed the fire line that serviced both Plaintiff’s property and the
property adjacent to it. (UMF 63.) Khemiri feared that these buildings may have
been without adequate fire protection for nearly three years. (UMF 65, 67.) His
decision to exercise the valve, ascertain its position, and ensure that it
still worked brings his actions within the type contemplated by the immunity
statutes. Thus, immunity applies and Khemiri is entitled to summary
adjudication on the second cause of action for negligence.  
 
2.    
Further Briefing
a.     Parties’ Briefs
Defendants timely filed a supplemental brief on 3/01/24.  They contend, in their supplemental brief,
that any attempt by Plaintiff to rely on Potter v. City of Oceanside (1981) 114
Cal.App.3d 564 is misplaced because Potter considered the second prong of
§850.4, whereas this case involves immunity under the first prong of
§850.4.  They cite various cases to stand
for the position that immunity exists even when there is no active fire or
firefighting, and note that the statute, on its face, applies to the condition
of fire protection and firefighting equipment. 

 
Plaintiff timely filed a supplemental brief on 3/06/24.  Plaintiff contends, in his supplemental brief,
that Potter is on all fours with this case, and makes clear that §850.4
immunity does not apply when a negligent act occurs and ultimately starts a
fire, but the negligent act has nothing to do with the fire itself.  He contends the cases cited by Defendants are
distinguishable.  He contends Defendants
are contradicting themselves in asserting that the valve was a firefighting
protection facility when Defendants previously asserted the value was NOT a
fire extinguishing system.  Finally,
Plaintiff seeks leave to amend his complaint to clarify that the second cause
of action is pled against both Khemiri and also the City itself.  
 
b.    
Facts
In drafting this ruling, the Court revisited the parties’ separate statement
of undisputed and disputed facts.  Kherimi
is a water utility mechanic with the city’s water department.  Fact 6. 
Plaintiff’s building and an adjacent building are equipped with
automatic fire sprinkler systems at the roof level, both of which are supplied
by the same fire sprinkler riser, which is located on the exterior of the
adjacent building.  Facts 13 and 14.  The riser connects the sprinkler system to the
city’s underground water supply line.  Fact
16.  The riser is equipped with a control
valve that starts and stops the flow of water through the buildings’ fire
sprinkler system.  Fact 18.  
 
On 11/01/18, for disputed reasons, the city’s employee located the valve
that feeds the fire line.  Fact 29.  The employee turned off the valve.  Fact 30. 
The city notified the adjacent property employee that the valve was
closed and instructed her to contact the fire department for fire watch
orders.  Fact 31.  On 11/07/18, the same employee again requested
the valve be turned off, and the city employee returned and confirmed it was
off.  Facts 32-34.  
 
Thereafter, in order to obtain an operating permit, Plaintiff had to
undergo fire inspections, which he ultimately passed on 9/25/20.  Facts 39-49. 
The City contends the building was identified, in plans submitted by
Plaintiff, as “non-sprinkler,” and the fire sprinkler system was concealed
during the inspection, such that the inspectors did not believe there was a
fire sprinkler system on the premises; Plaintiff disputes this fact and
contends nothing was concealing the ceiling; Plaintiff contends the inspectors
requested a non-sprinkler plan, and that is why such a plan was submitted.  Fact 51. 

 
The sprinkler pipes were cut and left uncapped in several locations
throughout the building; it is disputed whether this happened before or after Plaintiff
leased the building.  Facts 51-55.
 
On 6/29/21, Khemiri was conducting valve operations in the area of the
property.  Fact 56.  He was tasked with “exercising City valves in
his assigned gate valve district.”  Fact
57.  Exercising a valve involves rotating
the valve to ensure the water vale functions and operates property.  Fact 58. 
This is done to ensure the valve does not become so stiff that it will
no longer work, and so it does not corrode or become blocked with mineral
deposits.  Facts 59 and 60.  While exercising valves, Khemiri encountered the
valve that feeds the fire line on the subject properties.  Fact 63. 
Kherimi checked his laptop and determined the valve had been closed in
November of 2018.  Facts 64-65.  Because the valve had been closed for more
than 2.5 years, Khemiri was concerned the building could be without fire
protection.  Fact 67.  It is disputed whether Khemiri consulted his
supervisor or not (facts 69-70), but is undisputed that he exercised the
valve.  Fact 71.  He immediately realized the valve was opening
when he heard water flowing through the valve. 
Fact 72.  He then closed the valve,
but it had already sent enough water through the sprinkler system to flood
Plaintiff’s property and cause damage.  Fact
73.  A lot of the damage was caused by the
fact that the pipes had been cut and left uncapped.  Fact 75.
 
c.    
Analysis

The issue on this motion comes down to whether Khemiri’s actions on the
date of the incident constituted maintenance of fire protection equipment, in
which case immunity under §820.4 would apply. 
Plaintiff argues it does not because (a) Defendants admitted the acts at
issue did not constitute maintenance of fire protection equipment, and (b) Khemiri
was neither fighting a fire nor doing anything in preparation to fight a fire
when the incident occurred, and therefore immunity does not apply.
 
As noted above, Gov Code §850.4 provides, “Neither a public entity, nor
a public employee acting in the scope of his employment, is liable for any
injury resulting from the condition of fire protection or firefighting
equipment or facilities or, except as provided in Article 1 (commencing with
Section 17000) of Chapter 1 of Division 9 of the Vehicle Code, for any injury
caused in fighting fires.”
 
Plaintiff relies primarily on Potter v. City of Oceanside (1981) 114
Cal.App.3d 564 to support his position that immunity does not apply in the circumstances
presented here.  Plaintiff focuses on the
portion of Potter that stated:
Under Goverment Code section 850.4, a public entity is not liable for
any injury caused in fighting fires. (1)To further the goal of compensating
injured parties for damages caused by negligent acts, section 850.4 should be
construed to bar governmental liability only where the Legislature has clearly
intended immunity (  H & M Associates
v. City of El Centro (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 399, 406 [ 167 Cal.Rptr. 392]). The
Legislature could have granted immunity to firemen “acting in the scope of their
employment” or “acting to prevent fires,” but chose to bar liability only for
injuries caused in “fighting fires.” (2)Here Potter does not allege the fire
captain was fighting a fire when he told Potter to start the trenching machine;
the alleged negligent act occurred before any fire started. In fact, Potter
alleges the fire captain's negligence caused the escaping gas to ignite and
explode. Potter's complaint as pleaded is not barred by Government Code section
850.4. The superior court erred in sustaining the city's demurrer.
 
Defendants, in their supplemental brief, correctly note that Potter was
concerned only with the second of the two prongs of §850.4, which provides for
immunity “for any injury caused in fighting fires.”  The injury at issue in Potter occurred when
the plaintiff was operating a trenching machine and noticed her broke a gas
line.  The fire captain responded to his
call and told him to start his trenching machine and move it from the area, but
starting the machine caused an explosion and injured the plaintiff.   There
was no fire, but there was also no allegation that had anything to do with the first
prong of §850.4, which provides for immunity “for any injury resulting from the
condition of fire protection or firefighting equipment or facilities.”  
 
Thus, the Court must turn to the other primary cases upon which the parties
rely, New Hampshire Ins. Co. v. City of Madera (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 298 and Lainer
Investments v. Department of Water and Power (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 1.  In each of these cases, the Court of Appeals
upheld a finding of immunity for acts taken while maintaining fire protection
equipment.  Plaintiff argues these cases are
distinguishable because in New Hampshire, a valve had been left closed and
denied all water pressure to firefighting efforts, and in Lainer a valve was
only partially open and did not allow for sufficient water pressure.
 
The Court finds these are distinctions without a difference.  In this case, Defendants’ fact 67 states, “Given
that the subject valve may have been closed for more than two and a half years,
Khemiri was concerned that Plaintiff’s building could be without fire
protection.”  Plaintiff responded “no
position” in response to the fact, which leaves it undisputed.  Thus, Defendants met their initial burden to
establish Khemiri was engaged in maintenance relating to fire protection when
the incident occurred.  
 
Plaintiff argues Defendants admitted the valve was not a fire
extinguishing system.  Plaintiff relies
on Defendants’ brief and expert declaration, both of which stated that the
valve was not a fire extinguishing system. 
Plaintiff contends Defendants’ current position, that the valve is a
firefighting protection facility, conflicts with this prior admission.  The Court is not an expert in firefighting
systems, but these two positions do not appear to be in direct conflict.  The valve itself cannot be used to extinguish
a fire.  It does, however, have to be
open in order to use other components of the system, which components can be used
to extinguish the fire.  It therefore
makes sense that the valve is part of a firefighting protection facility, even
though it is not a fire extinguishing system. 

 
The Court affirms its prior tentative ruling and grants the summary
judgment motion.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 