 Case Number:  23LBCV01217    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Yassine Zerouali filed this action against Defendant, Saleem
Mahida for breach of contract, fraud, breach of implied warranty of
habitability, breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, negligence, and
retaliation arising out of the parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on
6/29/23.  Defendant filed an answer on
8/10/23.  The case is set for trial on
7/15/24.  
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Further Responses  
a.     Procedural History
Plaintiff propounded FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs on Defendant on
9/19/23.  Defendant served responses on
11/27/23.  The parties met and conferred,
and Defendant served supplemental responses on 1/09/24.  Plaintiff filed this motion on 1/16/24.  
b.    
Meet
and Confer
The threshold issue on this motion is whether Plaintiff made adequate attempts
to meet and confer prior to filing the motion. 
Defendant contends Plaintiff did not because (a) Plaintiff did not
attempt to meet and confer after Defendant served supplemental responses, and
(b) Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts did not address many of the discovery
items at issue on the motion.  
 
The Court would have preferred that Plaintiff meet and confer again
after Defendant supplemented his responses. 
To the extent, however, that the issues remained the same as those
originally addressed in the meet and confer correspondence, the Court finds the
failure to meet and confer additionally is not fatal to the motion.  
 
c.    
Initial
Note
At issue on this motion are FROGs 12.1 and 12.4, SROGs 24, 25, and 26,
and RPDs 4, 5, 29, 33, 34, and 36.  The
Court would have preferred that this motion be filed as two separate motions,
with one concerning interrogatories and the other concerning production
demands, as that is the typical practice of civil attorneys.  The Court notes a dearth of point authority
in this regard, but asks Counsel to reserve and file separate motions in the future
in this and other cases.  
 
d.    
FROGs
FROG 12.1 asks for contact information for witnesses to the incident.  In the meet and confer letter, Plaintiff
stated, “Countless witnesses have been omitted. The neighbor in the adjacent
unit. The workers who tried to correct the issues cited by LAHD. The
inspectors. Tafik. The real estate agent. No contact information has been
provided for Abdull Hakim. I expect the information about those witnesses as
well.”  
 
Defendant served a supplemental response, but Plaintiff contends the
response remains deficient.  In its
moving separate statement, Plaintiff argues, “A number of individual witnesses
have been omitted. Workers who tried to correct the Notice and Order issued by
the city. The architect who supposedly came to the property (Eric Figueroa –
See Bates 8). Neighbors and tenants of the other units on the property,
including “Tafik” who is identified in multiple other discovery responses as
having signed a lease agreement for his tenancy on the property, yet he is not
even mentioned here. Defendant cannot withhold these individuals’ names nor
their contact information.”
 
Defendant, in opposition to the motion, indicates he is not claiming
any additional persons have information about the incident(s) complained of by
Plaintiff in the complaint.  Plaintiff,
in reply, contends the individuals whose contact information are sought are
identified by Defendant in other responses and document production, and Defendant
cannot both identify the individuals and also refuse to provide their contact information.  Plaintiff does not specify any of the
discovery in the motion or reply papers, so the Court cannot confirm Plaintiff’s
position.  The Court cannot force Defendant
to take the position that it has witnesses to support its defense of the
complaint.  Defendant will, of course, be
bound to his responses as the action proceeds toward trial, and it is therefore
in his best interest to disclose the information if he intends to rely upon the
persons’ testimony.  If he does not, then
no further response is necessary.
 
FROG 12.4 seeks information about photographs, films, and videotapes of
or concerning the incident.  Plaintiff contends
there is a companion UD action, and in that action Defendant produced
additional photographs of the subject property, but Defendant continues to
refuse to provide the information sought by 12.4 about those photos.  Defendant, in opposition to the motion, contends
he does not have access to the UD file except for the stipulated judgment that
was entered therein.  He therefore
contends he does not know what photos are in it, and cannot provide information
about the photos.  It appears Plaintiff
has copies of these photos.  The Court
asks Plaintiff to provide the photos to Defendant, after which time Defendant
must provide the requested information about the photos.
 
e.    
SROGs
SROG 24 asks Defendant to state the date in 2021 that the City issued a
notice and order to comply for the property. 
Defendant contends he does not have this information, which is publicly available
and equally available to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff does not address this argument in reply.  No further response is required.
 
SROGs 25 and 26 also relate to the 2021 notice, and therefore the same
analysis applies; no further response is necessary.
 
f.     
RPDs
Plaintiff’s motion improperly combines a motion to compel further responses
to RPDs, which is governed by CCP §2031.310, with a motion to compel production
of documents, which is governed by §2031.320. 
A motion to compel further responses to RPDs is made when a party believes
the other party’s responses to RPDs are deficient.  A motion to compel production is made when a
party believes the other party’s responses are sufficient, but production is
deficient.  
 
The motion is summarily denied, as the Court cannot meaningfully
determine the issues posed in light of the procedural deficiency.  By way of example, Plaintiff argues the
response to RPD 4 is deficient because it does not comply with §2031.280, but
then argues the production is lacking as incomplete.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff’s primary contention is that Defendant has not
produced, in this action, documents that it produced in the parties’ UD
action.  It appears, however, that
Plaintiff also has those documents, as they were produced in the UD action, and
therefore it is unclear why Plaintiff needs them to be produced a second
time.  
 
g.    
Sanctions
Both parties request sanctions.  The
Court finds no sanctions are appropriate. 
Plaintiff should have met and conferred further prior to filing the motions.  Defendant, however, should have provided full
and complete responses in good faith.  Because
the motion is granted in part and denied in part, and because the Court finds both
parties took their positions in good faith, no sanctions are awarded.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.