 Case Number:  23VECV04042    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04042 ANZHELA HONCHARENKO, AN IND... vs ALEK
ZEVEN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Alek Zeven and dba Zeven Law Firm’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action is DENIED. 
Response to the First Amended Complaint shall be within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendants Alek Zeven and dba Zeven Law Firm (Defendant)
moved to compel arbitration and stay Plaintiff Anzhela Honcharenko’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).
Discussion  
Before the burden shifts to Plaintiff to oppose the motion,
Defendant must initially prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of
the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement.  (Valsan Partners Ltd.
Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 809,
817.)  Defendant argued that Plaintiff
should be compelled to arbitration and the action be stayed based upon the
Retainer Agreement’s arbitration provision. 
The arbitration provision  stated:
“In the event of any dispute, claim, question, or disagreement (such as, for
example, any claim brought by you for legal malpractice and/or legal fees and
cost disagreements) arising from or relating to this agreement, services of
Alek Zeven and the Zeven Law Firm or the breach thereof, the parties hereto
shall use their best efforts to settle their dispute, claim, question, or
disagreement.”  (Zeven Decl., par. 5,
Exh. A: Retainer Agreement, pg. 3.)  It
is undisputed that an arbitration agreement between the parties exists.
Defendant argued that the claims in the instant action fall
within the scope of the arbitration provision due to the broad language in the
provision.  However, the scope of the
retainer agreement obligated Defendant to provide legal services and obligated
Plaintiff to pay for legal services.  The
allegations in the FAC do not involve disputes over the legal services provided
or the amounts to be paid by Plaintiff. 
The allegations in the FAC are for sexual assault and battery.  Despite Plaintiff’s first cause of action
(COA) being titled negligence, the gravamen of the negligence claim is for
unconsented sexual and threatening comments and touching.  (FAC par. 28.)  The second through eighth COAs are also based
upon unconsented sexual and threatening comments and touching.  Nothing in the FAC’s eight COAs is there any
allegation that Defendant’s legal services were negligent or that malpractice
is being alleged or that a dispute over fees existed.  Without claims based upon the actual legal
services being negligent or the fees to be paid as being improper, there is
insufficient showing that Plaintiff’s claim “arose from or are related to” the
retainer agreement.  
The allegations regarding the retainer agreement and the
attorney-client relationship provided background facts to support how and why
Defendant had access to Plaintiff.  The
attorney-client relationship is used in this action to provide context as to
how the parties were at the same time and place and/or that Plaintiff was lured
into certain locations by Defendant to effectuate the assault and battery.  The fact that the attorney-client
relationship brought the two parties together is insufficient to present a
nexus between the alleged assault and battery and the retainer agreement’s
arbitration provision.  Despite broad
wording, an arbitration clause does not apply to disputes unrelated to matters
covered in the contract.  (Lawrence v.
Walzer & Gabrielson (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1501, 1506.)  Because the allegations in the FAC do not
arise from or relate to the retainer agreement, the Court finds that Defendant
did not meet his initial burden to show that the claims are within the scope of
the retainer agreement or the arbitration provision.  The burden did not shift to Plaintiff.
The motion to compel arbitration and stay the action is
DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.