 Case Number:  22STCV34672    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
have conspired to destroy Plaintiffs’ business enterprises through a social
media smear campaign which characterizes Plaintiffs as a cult.
Cross-Complainants filed a Cross-Complaint
alleging a bevy of claims against Plaintiffs regarding wrongful activities
occurring within the church environment.
Cross-Defendants demur to the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING

Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants
7M Films, Inc., Hannah Shinn, RCP Financial, Inc., Robert Shinn, and Shekinah
Church; and Cross-Defendants Abraham Park, Alpha Plus Realty, Christina Keller,
Eung Seok Son, Imaginating Pictures, Isaiah Shinn, Jenny Park, Lemuel Betton,
Matthew Shinn, Shirley Kim, Studio on the Mount, Inc., and Young Bin Kim’s
demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first, ninth,
twenty-fourth, and twenty-eighth causes of action
The demurrer to the fourth cause
of action is OVERRULED as to Cross-Defendants Young and Abraham and SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to Cross-Defendants Jenny and Christina.            
The demurrer to the twelfth,
thirty-fourth, forty-fourth, forty-sixth, forty-seventh, forty-eighth, forty-ninth,
and fiftieth causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
The demurrer to the fifty-second
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Cross-Complainant
Fisher-Green will only be given one more opportunity to amend this cause of action
only.
            Cross-Complainant Fisher-Green is given
30 days’ leave to amend where indicated.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            The Declaration of Neeloufar
Mahrouyan reflects that Cross-Defendants’ counsel satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
            Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants
7M Films, Inc., Hannah Shinn, RCP Financial, Inc., Robert Shinn, and Shekinah
Church; and Cross-Defendants Abraham Park, Alpha Plus Realty, Christina Keller,
Eung Seok Son, Imaginating Pictures, Isaiah Shinn, Jenny Park, Lemuel Betton,
Matthew Shinn, Shirley Kim, Studio on the Mount, Inc., and Young Bin Kim demur
to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint as follows:
1.         DEMURRER TO FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION (Fraud
– By All Cross-Complainants Against Robert, Hannah, Matthew, Isaiah, Shirley,
Kloe, Daniel, and Shekinah).
            A.        Re:
Insufficient allegations made on information and belief
            Cross-Defendants argue that fraud
may not be pled on information and belief.
However, “[a]n allegation of material facts upon information or belief is a
sufficient allegation.” (Buxton v.
International Indem. Co.
(1920) 47 Cal.App. 583, 591.) If Plaintiff would not have personal knowledge of
a matter, but would ordinarily learn of the information from the declarations
of others, it is appropriate to allege such information on information and
belief:
Defendants contend, however, that the allegation is insufficient
for the reason that the special damages are alleged only on information and
belief. Plaintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that
are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to
believe that the allegations are true. ( Code Civ. Proc., § 446; Campbell-Kawannanakoa v. Campbell, 152 Cal. 201, 206 [92 P.
184]; North v. Cecil B. DeMille
Productions, 2 Cal.2d 55, 58-59 [39 P.2d 199]; Swars v. Council of City of Vallejo, 64 Cal.App.2d 858, 865
[149 P.2d 397]; Thompson v. Sutton, 50 Cal.App.2d 272, 279 [122
P.2d 975].) Plaintiff would ordinarily learn that he lost
employment because of the libel from the declarations of others. It is
therefore appropriate for him to allege such matters on information and belief.
(Campbell-Kawannanakoa v. Campbell, supra.)
 
Hall v. James, 79 Cal.App. 433, 435-436 [249 P. 876], does
not compel a contrary result. In that case the court held insufficient an
allegation on information and belief of the amount of damages sustained by
plaintiff as the result of  [*793]  defendant's breach of contract. The court recognized that
matters that are not within the personal knowledge of the pleader may be
alleged on information and belief, but stated that "plaintiff is
certainly in a position to know better than any informant the financial loss he
sustained by reason of the breach of contract." ( Hall v. James, 79 Cal.App. at 436 [249 P.
876].) In the present case, the amount of financial loss
plaintiff has sustained and the fact that the loss was caused by the libel are
not necessarily within his personal knowledge, but may be ascertainable only
from the declarations of others and may therefore be alleged on
information and belief.
 
(Pridonoff v. Balokovich (1951) 36 Cal.2d
788, 792-93 [bold emphasis added].)
            Here, Cross-Defendants cite certain
allegations scattered throughout the 2AXC, but none of these are necessarily
within the personal knowledge of Cross-Complainants, although they may obtain
information to support such allegations through the declarations of others.
Under Pridonoff, the allegations on information and belief are
sufficient. Cross-Complainants are entitled to obtain evidence to support their
allegations through discovery.
            Moreover, Cross-Defendants fail to
show how this cause of action is insufficiently pled given these allegations on
information and belief.
            This ground for demurrer is not
persuasive.
            B.        Re:
Failure To Meet Heightened Pleading Requirement For Fraud.
 
            Cross-Defendants argue that this cause
of action does not meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud.
 
            “To
establish a claim for deceit based on intentional misrepresentation, the
plaintiff must prove seven essential elements: (1) the defendant represented to
the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that representation was
false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was false when the
defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation recklessly and
without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff
rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff. (Citations
omitted.)” (Manderville v. PCG&S Group, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498 [italics omitted].)
 
Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with “ ‘general and
conclusory allegations.’ ” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th
167, 184 [132 Cal. Rptr. 2d 490, 65 P.3d 1255].)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation,
to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was
made. (Lazar v. Superior Court, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)
 
We enforce the specificity requirement in consideration of its two
purposes. The first purpose is to give notice to the defendant with
sufficiently definite charges that the defendant can meet them. (Committee on
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216
[197 Cal. Rptr. 783, 673 P.2d 660].) The second is to permit a court to weed
out meritless fraud claims on the basis of the pleadings; thus, “the pleading
should be sufficient ‘ “to enable the court to determine whether, on the facts
pleaded, there is any foundation, prima facie at least, for the charge of
fraud.” ’ ” (Id. at pp. 216–217.)
 
(West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
 
      This cause of action is based on the
following allegations:
 
231. Robert and the
Mentors, individually and as agents of Shekinah,
represented to all Cross-Complainants that tithes and offerings given to
Shekinah and Robert would be used to support Shekinah, other religious
institutions, or individuals visiting as “prophets” on Shekinah “prophecy
nights.” The dates of these representations are set forth in the allegations
contained in the preceding paragraphs and incorporated by reference as though
fully set forth herein.  
 
232. On information and
belief, these representations were false because members’
actual offerings and tithes never added up to the final numbers given by Robert
and the Mentors. Robert and the Mentors, individually and
as agents of Shekinah, knew the representations were false when the representations
were made, or at the very least, never intended to honor their representations
because none of offerings were ever reflected on
Shekinah’s end-of-year offering receipts. Robert and Shekinah would claim that the monetary
“donations” were used to do “God’s work.” 
The tax documents provided to members at the end of each year were
inaccurate, missing thousands of dollars that were given to Robert and Shekinah. Hannah, who controlled the accounts of many Shekinah members, including
Elisha Leigh, would write
checks to Shekinah and Robert, but these checks were never reflected in the members’
tax returns as offerings. 
 
233. Instead, Robert, Hannah, Matthew, Isaiah,
Shirley, individually and as agents of Shekinah, used the tithes for personal
expenses and lived lavish lifestyles. 
 
234. All
Cross-Complainants reasonably relied on the representation that tithes and
offerings would be used to support Shekinah or other religious institutions
when tithes and offerings were given because that is a commonly accepted
purpose of tithing, and they were explicitly informed that the money would be
used to support Shekinah and/or other religious institutions. Cross-Complaints
had no reason to know that the tithes would be used otherwise when given.  
 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 231 –
234 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Regarding
specific allegations as to each Cross-Complainant pertaining to the use of
offerings the 2ACC alleges as follows:
 
44. All of the
Cross-Complainants were required to give 10% of their income to Shekinah, a tithe,
which Robert and the Mentors told them would support the church.  In calling this 10% donation a tithe, Robert
and the Mentors implied that this money would be used to support Shekinah, such
as through maintenance of church buildings, funding church programs, or
supporting other members or 
religious
institutions.  If they did not give their
tithes, Robert yelled at them or threatened consequences.   
 
45. Robert encouraged
them to give more than 10% by saying, “The more you give, the more you’ll
receive,” and “Tithe is the minimum, you must one day get to a place where you
give all of your money, time, body, mind and heart.”  Robert said this
frequently during sermons which were given twice a week.  Robert gave sermons on Wednesday
nights and Sunday mornings.  In 2022, this changed Tuesday nights and Saturday
mornings.  All
members were expected to attend sermons. 

 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 44, 45
[bold emphasis added].)
 
47.
These phrases, or slight variations thereof, would be repeated to
Cross-Complainants regularly by their mentors, both in person as well as over
text and email. Cross-Complainants were also told “When you give an offering
to the Man of God, give cash so it’s more of a blessing because he doesn’t need
to pay taxes.”  
 
     (2ACC, ¶ 47 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
48.
Members were expected to give 30% of their income: 10% tithe to Shekinah, 10%
in cash to Robert the Man of God (which on information and belief Robert did
not report as income, misclassifying it as a donation). Mentors, including
Matthew and Shirley, told Shekinah members that they had to give the Man of God
cash box, 10% or more strictly in cash, and an additional 10% “offering.”  Robert stated multiple times in sermons that
those who are committed to God donate 100% of their income and that was how one
entered heaven. Robert and Shekinah would claim that the monetary
“donations” were used to do “God’s work.” 
Meanwhile, Robert and his Mentors lived lavish lifestyles and the tax
documents provided to members at the end of each year were inaccurate, missing 
thousands
of dollars that were given to Robert and Shekinah.  Hannah, who controlled the accounts of many
Shekinah members, including Elisha Leigh, would write checks to Shekinah and
Robert, but these checks were never reflected in the members’ tax returns as
offerings. 
 
49.
On information and belief, Robert took essentially 100% of what longtime
members, including Elisha Leigh, made after those members were allowed to pay
for basic necessities, such as car payments, insurance and income tax, as well
as minimal monthly allowances. Often, Shekinah members were made to believe
that the only way to get to heaven was to give everything, thereby becoming 
favored
by God. Shekinah Mentors were used as examples of people that gave everything
to the Man of God and, thus, received a return from God. 
 
50.
Where members contributed more than 10% of their income to Shekinah, Ms. Leigh
was to classify those contributions as “offerings” and not “tithes.” 
51.
However, Robert and the Mentors used much of the funds from tithes and
offerings to cover personal expenses or other expenses that were not for
Shekinah.  None of the Cross-Complainants
were given complete and accurate receipts of contribution from Shekinah.   
 
52.
If any of Cross-Complainants started to doubt whether Shekinah was legitimate
or whether they were being treated fairly, they were told by Robert and the
Mentors not to ask questions. This included asking questions for clarity or
details.  Total reliance on and faith in
Robert was required If Shekinah members asked questions or didn’t follow
instructions from Robert and the Mentors, they 
would
be forced to miss meetings or would be called out in front of everybody during
church service or meetings and be demeaned before the church members.
 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 47 – 52.)
 
            Here, the allegations regarding the
use of tithes and offerings for church purposes, rather than personal purposes,
may be found by a jury to have been implied:
 
A misrepresentation need not be oral; it may be implied by
conduct. (See, e.g., Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974)
43 Cal. App. 3d 145, 151 [117 Cal. Rptr. 525] and Prosser & Keeton on
Torts, supra, § 106, p. 736.) We are aware of no decision
holding the unauthorized use of a telephone access code constitutes Misrepresentation. But
decisions in analogous circumstances support that conclusion. For example,
in State v. Hamm (Mo.Ct.App. 1978) 569 S.W.2d 289, the
defendant used the bank card and personal identification number (PIN) of
another person to steal cash at an automatic teller machine. Rejecting the
assertion he made no misrepresentation, the court noted defendant's use of the
card and confidential PIN was an was an implied misrepresentation as to his identity.
( Id. at pp. 290-291.) 9 The
same logic applies here.
 
     (Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek
(1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1567.)
 
A misrepresentation need not be express but may be implied by or
inferred from the circumstances. For example, it has been held that a person
who sells securities impliedly represents that the applicable provisions of law
have been complied with and the falsity of that representation may give rise to
an action for fraud. (Mary
Pickford Co. v. Bayly Bros., Inc., 12 Cal.2d 501, 519 [86 P.2d 102]; see also 37 Am.Jur.2d, §
42, p. 67.)
 
Moreover, in
pleading a fraud action based on the alleged falsity of a representation or of
a promise to perform a future act it is not necessary to allege the
circumstantial evidence from which it may be inferred that the representation
or promise was false -- these are evidentiary matters which give rise to the
misrepresentation. The only essential allegation is the general statement
that the representation or promise was false and that the defendant knew it to
be false at the time it was made. (3 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (2d ed.) Pleading,
§ 585, pp. 2222-2224.)
 
(Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974)
43 Cal. App. 3d 145, 151.)
            The obvious harm is out-of-pocket
loss in the form of tithes/offering given in reliance on the alleged
misrepresentations.
            Below are the allegations pertaining
to each Cross-Complainant’s exposure to the alleged misrepresentations regarding
the use of tithes/offerings, made at sermons. Because the dates on which the sermons
occurred are known to Defendants, these allegations are sufficient for purposes
of demurrer. Further details as to each Cross-Complainant’s reliance on said misrepresentations
are properly the subject of discovery.
Cross-Complainant Elisha Leigh
77.
Ms. Leigh was also told by Robert, Hannah, Shirley, and/or Matthew that she
should “Submit all your finances to your mentor” and that “When you give an
offering to the Man of God, give cash so it’s more of a blessing because he
doesn’t need to pay taxes.”
 (2ACC, ¶ 77.)
Cross-Complainants Marilyn and David Gonzalez
143.
Shirley first told Marilyn about tithes and donations in or around November
2020. Shirley instructed Marilyn to give 10% tithe to Shekinah and a 10%
offering to the Man of God for Robert Shinn. Shirley told Marilyn that cash was
preferred for both tithes and Man of God offerings, especially for Man of God
offerings which were strictly cash. Shirley also told Marilyn “We also bless
the Man of God, He is the connection to God himself, and the more you give, the
more you will be blessed back.”
 
Shirley
gave Marilyn constant instructions and reminders about tithes orally as well as
over text and email. Marilyn was under the impression that the tithes and
offerings were given for normal church purposes – e.g., repairs to the church,
helping people in need, supporting the church. She only found out
later
this was not the case. Before joining Shekinah, David had been told by his
brother, a Shekinah member, that tithes went to other churches.  
 
144.
Matthew told David orally and over text that it was very important to tithe.
Initially, Matthew told David that the extra 10% donation to the Man of God was
only if he wished to give it.  A week or
two later, Matthew told David to give the extra 10% to the Man of God.  
 
145.
Throughout his time in Shekinah, Matthew told David that he would be blessed if
he gave more in tithes and donations. 
Matthew said this orally at Bible study nights on Tuesdays and over
texts During sermons on Sundays and Wednesdays, Robert would tell the whole
church that it was good to 
give
tithes and donations because then blessings would come. Shirley also instructed
them to pay off the debt on their car. 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 143 – 145 [bold emphasis added].)
Cross-Defendant Aubrey Fisher-Greene
 
177.
Aubrey was encouraged to give more than 10% of his income to Shekinah by
Robert Shinn and Aubrey’s mentor, Daniel. Robert would tell Aubrey to give
tithes and offerings whenever Aubrey saw him speak, such as during church services,
dinner meetings and Bible studies. Both Daniel and Robert would give Aubrey
warnings that if I didn’t give money through tithes and offerings, telling Aubrey
that he would suffer bad consequences. Sometimes Aubrey was privately and
publicly harassed, criticized and rebuked if he didn’t give enough money. This
would all be done in person, over phone calls, over texts, and over
emails.  
 
178.
During Robert’s twice weekly sermons, Robert would regularly say “The more you
give, the more you’ll receive,” “If you give you will receive,” “When you bless
the Man of God you will be blessed by God,” and that blessings came to those
who gave. These phrases were also repeated by Mentors – including Daniel,
Matthew, and Kloe – during Monday dancer meetings, and Tuesday and Friday men’s
meetings. Aubrey trusted Robert as his pastor and wanted to be closer to God
and to be blessed so he gave to Shekinah. 

 
179.
During his twice weekly sermons Robert would recount stories of Shekinah giving
money to other churches and foundations. Robert also held “Prophecy Nights”
where other pastors and ministers would come to Shekinah and Shekinah members
would be asked, encouraged, and instructed to give money to these prophets. This
made Aubrey think that Shekinah was a giving ministry who gave support to other
ministries.  
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 177 – 179 [bold emphasis added].)
Cross-Complainant
Kylie Douglas
186.
Kylie was taught by Robert during church services about Shekinah’s 10-10-10
practice with respect to member’s income: 10% tithe to Shekinah, 10% to the Man
of God, and 10% in offering to Shekinah. Kylie understood the Man of God
donation was to go straight to Robert, but the other 20% was supposed to go to
the church. 
(2ACC, ¶  186.)
Cross-Complainant
Kevin Davis
210.
On top of the 20% 7M was taking, Kevin also gave 30% of his income to Shekinah:
10% tithe, 10% to the Man of God, and a 10% “offering.”  Robert said during sermons that most of
the tithes and offerings were going to other churches.  On information and belief, those funds did
not go to other churches because they were never mentioned in services or at
meetings. When amounts were given to other prophets, they were minimal in
comparison to what the members had donated specifically for the visiting
prophets. Interestingly, Robert only ever spoke about what he was getting and
how much money he had, but never about what he was doing with the thousands of
dollars he was taking from his members.   
     (2ACC, ¶ 210 [bold emphasis added].)
Cross-Complainant
Kailea Gray
218.
Throughout her time at Shekinah, Kailea was told by Robert and Shirley that
tithes given by her (and other members) would be used for other churches, to
help “save souls,” and to help other Christian groups. The message was
that Shekinah would use this money to help others. Kailea was told this by
Robert during his sermons and by Shirley through text message, including but
not limited on, on April 25, May 9, August 25, and November 3, 2021.  
 
219.
In addition to the tithes, Kailea was also told that the “Man of God”
donations – another donation Shekinah required – would be used to help others.
This was told to Kailea by Robert at a sermon on September 21, 2021. Finally,
when Shekinah held “Prophecy Nights,” Kailea was told that the “prophets”
(individuals visiting from other churches[1])
would be given the donations. Robert and Shirley told her this around March
and April 2022. Kailea later discovered that money was not given to them.
Kailea gave the tithes, Man of God offerings, and Prophecy Nights’ offerings
based on the representations of where the money would go, had no other reason
to believe it was false, and would not have done so had she known the truth.
.
. .
 
227.
Kailea gave approximately 10% of her income as tithe to Shekinah but Shekinah
and Robert misled her as to what her contributions to Shekinah were for. He
told Kailea that Shekinah gives away their money to other churches and they
were going to use the funds to build a new building for Shekinah.  
 
228.
On information and belief none of that money went to other churches or to fund
a new building for Shekinah.   
 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 218, 219, 227, 227 [bold emphasis added].) 
            The Court finds that the fraud
allegations are sufficient to survive demurrer. This ground is not persuasive.
            The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.
2.         DEMURRER TO FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION (Aiding
and Abetting Human Trafficking [Civil Code § 52.5] – By Elisha Leigh Against
Young, Christina, Abraham, and Jenny)   
            Cross-Defendants argue that there
are no allegations that Cross-Defendants were involved in a sex trafficking
scheme, plan or pattern as defined in the applicable statutes. (Civ. Code, §
52.5; Pen. Code, § 236.1(h)(1).) Cross-Defendants argue that, to sufficiently plead human trafficking,
Ms. Leigh must show, for example, threatened deportation, threats to withhold
visas and immigration status, or threats to file civil lawsuits for work
injuries. (Lesnik v. Eisenmann SE (N.D. Cal. 2019) 374 F. Supp. 3d 923, 952,
954.)
            This cause of action purports to
allege a violation of Civil Code, § 52.5, which provides in pertinent part as
follows:
(a) A victim of human trafficking, as defined in Section 236.1 of the
Penal Code, may bring a civil action for actual damages, compensatory damages,
punitive damages, injunctive relief, any combination of those, or any other
appropriate relief. A prevailing plaintiff may also be awarded attorney’s fees
and costs.

     (Civ
Code § 52.5(a).)
 
            In turn, Penal Code, § 236.1
provides in pertinent part as follows:
 
(a) A person who deprives or
violates the personal liberty of another with the intent to obtain forced
labor or services, is guilty of human trafficking and shall be punished
by imprisonment in the state prison for 5, 8, or 12 years and a fine of not
more than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).
 
(b) A person who deprives or violates
the personal liberty of another with the intent to effect or maintain a
violation of Section
266, 266h, 266i, 266j, 267, 311.1, 311.2, 311.3, 311.4, 311.5, 311.6,
or 518 is guilty of human trafficking and shall be punished by
imprisonment in the state prison for 8, 14, or 20 years and a fine of not more
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).
 
. . .
 
(g) The Legislature finds that the
definition of human trafficking in this section is equivalent to the federal
definition of a severe form of trafficking found in Section
7102(11) of Title 22 of the United States Code.
 
(h) For purposes of this chapter,
the following definitions apply:
 
(1) “Coercion” includes a scheme,
plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform
an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any
person; the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process; debt bondage; or
providing and facilitating the possession of a controlled substance to a person
with the intent to impair the person’s judgment.
 
(2) “Commercial sex act” means
sexual conduct on account of which anything of value is given or received by a
person.
 
(3) “Deprivation or violation of
the personal liberty of another” includes substantial and sustained
restriction of another’s liberty accomplished through force, fear, fraud,
deceit, coercion, violence, duress, menace, or threat of unlawful injury to
the victim or to another person, under circumstances where the person receiving
or apprehending the threat reasonably believes that it is likely that the
person making the threat would carry it out.
 
(4) “Duress” includes a direct
or implied threat of force, violence, danger, hardship, or retribution
sufficient to cause a reasonable person to acquiesce in or perform an act which
the person would otherwise not have submitted to or performed; a direct or
implied threat to destroy, conceal, remove, confiscate, or possess an actual or
purported passport or immigration document of the victim; or knowingly
destroying, concealing, removing, confiscating, or possessing an actual or
purported passport or immigration document of the victim.
 
(5) “Forced labor or services”
means labor or services that are performed or provided by a person and are
obtained or maintained through force, fraud, duress, or coercion, or equivalent
conduct that would reasonably overbear the will of the person.
 
(6) “Great bodily injury” means a
significant or substantial physical injury.
 
(7) “Minor” means a person less
than 18 years of age.
 
(8) “Serious harm” includes any
harm, whether physical or nonphysical, including psychological, financial, or
reputational harm, that is sufficiently
serious, under all the surrounding circumstances, to compel a reasonable person
of the same background and in the same circumstances to perform or to continue
performing labor, services, or commercial sexual acts in order to avoid
incurring that harm.
 
(i) The total circumstances, including
the age of the victim, the relationship between the victim and the trafficker
or agents of the trafficker, and any handicap or
disability of the victim, shall be factors to consider in determining the
presence of “deprivation or violation of the personal liberty of another,”
“duress,” and “coercion” as described in this section.
 
     (Penal Code § 236.1 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            As to the underlining claim of human
trafficking, the third cause of action for Human Trafficking is based upon the
following allegations:
 
248.
Ms. Leigh was deprived of personal liberty by Robert, Shirley, and Hannah,
individually and as agents of Shekinah, RCP, and Alpha. Ms. Leigh’s control
over life was extremely limited by Cross-Defendants who exerted significant
control over Ms. Leigh’s finances, housing, food intake, sexual activity, job,
and more.  
 
249.
Robert, Shirley, and Hannah, individually and as agents of Shekinah, RCP, and
Alpha recruited Ms. Leigh to Shekinah, housed Ms. Leigh, and deprived Ms. Leigh
of her liberty with the intent to force Ms. Leigh to provide labor and services.  
 
250.
Ms. Leigh was coerced into performing services and having her liberty
restrained by means of a plan or scheme enacted by Cross-Defendants Robert,
Shirley, and Shekinah to cause Ms. Leigh to believe that, if she did not
perform such services she would be disobeying the Man of God and would suffer
serious harm by means of a plan or scheme enacted by Cross-Defendants Robert,
Shirley, and Shekinah. Cross-Defendants intended to cause Ms. Leigh to believe
that, if she did not perform such services she would be disobeying the Man of
God and would suffer serious harm including: her and her family going to hell,
inviting Satan into her and her family’s life, becoming demon possessed, experiencing
anxiety and depression, potentially losing her job, being physically assaulted
by other Shekinah members, and/or being emotionally abused and berated by
Shekinah members in front of others. In fact, Ms. Leigh suffered serious
psychological harm at the hands of Robert and Shirley as a direct result of her
refusal to perform certain sexual services for Luke.  
 
251.
Ms. Leigh had to ask for permission to receive medical care from Robert and 
subsequently
was denied medical care when her ankle was injured. Ms. Leigh did not have
control of her finances or bank accounts–Shirley, and later Hannah, did. Ms.
Leigh was not allowed to complete her own taxes–those were done for her by Hannah and Cross-Defendant
Christina. Shirley also denied Ms. Leigh access to food, her car, and her
mail.  
 
252.
Ms. Leigh suffered serious physical, psychological, and financial harm as a
result of Cross-Defendants’ plan or scheme. 

 
253.
Ms. Leigh was harmed and is owed damages in an amount to be determined at
trial, including attorney’s fees and costs. 

 
(1AXC, ¶¶ 248 - 253.)
 
            The third cause of action
sufficiently pleads the elements of human trafficking under the definitions set
forth in Penal Code, § 236.1: the deprivation or violation of personal liberty
with the intent to obtain forced labor or services, accomplished through
coercion or duress, by way of a direct or implied threat of hardship or
retribution, and serious psychological, financial or reputation harm under the total
circumstances. (Penal Code, § 236.1(a), (h)(1), (3), (4), (5), (8), (i).)
 
            Cross-Defendants argue that there
are insufficient facts pled to constituting aiding and abetting against each of
them.
 
  “ ‘Liability may … be imposed on one who aids and abets the
commission of an intentional tort if the person … knows the other's conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other to so act … .’ [Citations.]” (Citation omitted.) This is
consistent with the Restatement Second of Torts, which recognizes a cause of
action for aiding and abetting in a civil action when it provides: “For harm
resulting to a third person from the tortious conduct of another, one is
subject to liability if he [¶] … [¶] (b) knows that the other's conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other so to conduct himself … .” (Rest.2d Torts, § 876, subd.
(b).) “Advice or encouragement to act operates as a moral
support to a tortfeasor and if the act encouraged is known to be
tortious it has the same effect upon the liability of the adviser as
participation or physical assistance. … It likewise applies to a person who
knowingly gives substantial aid to another who, as he knows, intends to do a
tortious act.” (Rest.2d Torts, § 876, com. d, p. 317.)
 
(Schulz v. Neovi Data Corp. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
86, 93 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
      The fourth cause
of action is based upon the following allegations: 
257.
Cross-Defendants had actual knowledge of Robert’s coercion of services from and
deprivation of liberty of Ms. Leigh and intended for such coercion and
deprivation to occur.  
 
258.
On information and belief, Cross-Defendant Young substantially
assisted or encouraged the coercion of sexual services and deprivation of
liberty committed by Robert, individually and as an agent of RCP, against Ms.
Leigh by ensuring that no other
Shekinah members were at the Tujunga property when Robert wanted to have sex
with Ms. Leigh. Robert followed a
pattern with his visits: he would always arrive between 2:00 and 2:40 p.m.,
send a text message to Shirley, the house captain, then Shirley would text
Young, the next person in charge, who would then alert everyone else not to go
into the house because Robert was coming and needed to spend time with God.
Robert would then enter the house, make his way to Elisha’s room, coerce sexual services, and then go to the living room. At that
point, Shirley and Young would send a text message to everyone to come to the
house and eat. Because Robert made Ms. Leigh feel that her job, livelihood, and
spiritual wellbeing was at stake if she did not obey him and have sex with him,
Young’s knowing facilitation of Robert’s sexual extortion of Ms. 
Leigh
substantially aided the deprivation of liberty committed by Robert against Ms.
Leigh.
 
259.
Cross Defendant Jenny knowingly and substantially assisted and
encouraged the coercion of services and deprivation of liberty committed by
Robert, Shirley, and Hannah, individually and as agents of Shekinah, against
Ms. Leigh by applying for unemployment benefits, not providing Ms. Leigh with
her EDD debit card, and keeping for herself or providing the same to Hannah
and/or Shirley instead.  .  
 
260. Cross-Defendant Christina knowingly and
substantially assisted or encouraged the coercion of services and deprivation
of liberty committed by Robert, Shirley, and Hannah, individually and as agents
of Shekinah, against Ms. Leigh by telling Hannah and Shirley to take money from
Ms. Leigh’s accounts when they would call and ask whose money they should use
to support and fund 
Cross-Defendants.   

 
261.
Cross-Defendant Abraham
substantially assisted or encouraged the coercion of sexual services and
deprivation of liberty committed by Robert against Ms. Leigh by knowingly
continuing to allow Robert to use his property at E. City Place to
sexually coerce and exploit Ms.
Leigh. Because 
Robert
made Ms. Leigh feel that her job, livelihood, and spiritual wellbeing was at
stake if she did not obey him and have sex with him, Abraham’s knowing
facilitation of Robert’s sexual extortion of Ms. Leigh substantially aided the
deprivation of liberty committed by Robert against Ms. Leigh.
     (2AXC, ¶¶ 257 – 261 [bold emphasis and
underlining added].)
Here, Cross-Complainant Leigh has not
pled sex trafficking for purposes of Civil Code, § 52.5(a), which must be as
defined in Penal Code, § 236.1(b), i.e., a violation of Section 266 [procurement], 266h [pimping], 266i
[pandering], 266j [procurement of child], 267 [abduction of minor for
prostitution], 311.1 [sale or distribution of obscene matter depicting
person under age of 18 years engaging in sexual conduct], 311.2
[production, distribution, or exhibition of obscene matter], 311.3 [sexual
exploitation of child], 311.4 [employment of minor in sale or distribution
of obscene matter or production of pornography], 311.5 [advertising or promotion
of matter represented to be obscene], 311.6 [obscene live conduct],
or 518  [definition of extortion; consideration]. 
However, while the allegation that
Cross-Defendant Young would ensure no one would be at the Tujunga property so
Robert could have sex with Leigh (2ACC, ¶ 258) does not plead aiding and
abetting of sex trafficking as that term is defined in Penal Code, § 236, it does
plead aiding and abetting Robert’s forced sexual services at Abraham’s
house.
Likewise as to the allegation that
Cross-Defendant Abraham would continue to allow Robert to use his property to
sexually coerce and exploit Leigh, (2ACC, ¶ 261.) this alleges aiding and
abetting of human trafficking for sexual services.
The allegation that Cross-Defendant
Jenny applied for unemployment
benefits, did not provide Ms. Leigh with her EDD debit card, and keeping for
herself or providing the same to Hannah and/or Shirley (2ACC, ¶ 259) instead
does not allege aiding and abetting of human trafficking for labor or services,
nor of sex trafficking.
            The allegation
that Cross-Defendant Christina told Hannah and Shirley to take money from Ms.
Leigh’s accounts (2ACC, ¶ 260) does
not allege aiding and abetting of human trafficking for labor or services, nor
of sex trafficking.
            As such, the demurrer to the fourth cause
of action is OVERRULED as to Cross-Defendants Young and Abraham and SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to Cross-Defendants Jenny and Christina.            
3.         DEMURRER TO NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION  (Aiding and Abetting Breach of Voluntarily
Assumed Fiduciary Duty) The Ninth Cause of Action in the SACC for aiding and
abetting breach of voluntarily assumed fiduciary duty by Ms. Leigh against
Abraham, Christina, and, Jenny fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e), (f).)
            Cross-Defendants do not offer
argument to support this demurrer. As such, the demurrer to the ninth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
4.         DEMURRER TO TWELFTH CAUSE OF ACTION (Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress) The Twelfth Cause of Action in the SACC for
intentional infliction of emotional distress by Ms. Douglas against Hannah and
Shekinah fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is
uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e), (f).) 
            Cross-Defendants argue that “extreme
and outrageous” conduct is not pled.
“The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: ‘ “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. …” Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) “It is not enough
that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the
presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Ibid.)
(Catsouras v. Department of
California Highway Patrol (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-75.)
            Here, Cross-Complainant Kylie Douglas
bases her IIED claim on the following allegations:
331.
Cross-Defendant Hannah, individually and as a representative of Shekinah,
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct including yelling, berating, and
insulting Kylie about various aspects of her body and character in private and
in front of other Shekinah members, and intentionally isolating Kylie from her
boyfriend and other Shekinah members in part by excluding Kylie from
events.  Cross-Defendant Hannah acted to
embarrass Kylie in front of others and to keep Kylie from seeing her family and
interacting with anyone who was not a Shekinah Mentor or Sub-Mentor. On
information and belief, Hannah did so as an agent of Shekinah to get Kylie to
fully submit to Shekinah so that Shekinah could take further advantage of Kylie
and obtain more money and services from her. 

 
332.
Cross-Defendant Hannah in so acting intended to cause Kylie emotional distress,
or at the very least acted with reckless disregard that Kylie would suffer
emotional distress, knowing that Kylie was present when the conduct
occurred.  
 
333.
Kylie suffered severe emotional distress, and Hannah’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Kylie’s severe emotional distress. 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 331 – 333.) 
Ordinarily mere insulting language, without more, does not constitute
outrageous conduct. The Restatement view is that liability "does not extend to mere
insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities . . . . There is no occasion for the law to intervene . . . where
some one's feelings are hurt." (Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d.) Behavior
may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position
which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to
injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress. (Prosser, Law of
Torts, supra, at pp. 57-58; Rest.2d Torts, § 46, coms. e, f; Fletcher v.
Western National Life Ins. Co. [10 Cal. App. 3d 376], supra, at p. 397 [89 Cal.
Rptr. 78, 47 A.L.R.3d 286] (insurance agent's threatened and actual refusals to
pay; threatening communication in bad faith to settle non-existent dispute);
Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering Inc., supra, at p. 496 (supervisor shouting
insulting epithets; terminating employment; humiliating plaintiff); Golden v.
Dungan [20 Cal. App. 3d 295], supra, at p. 305 [197 Cal. Rptr. 577] (process
server knowingly and maliciously banging on door at midnight).)'" (25
Cal.3d at pp. 946-947.)
(Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 155
[bold emphasis added].)
“‘Liabilities of course cannot be
extended to every trivial indignity. … [¶] Accordingly, it is generally held that there can be no recovery for mere profanity,
obscenity, or abuse, without circumstances of aggravation, or for insults,
indignities or threats which are considered to amount to nothing more than mere
annoyances. The plaintiff cannot recover merely because of hurt feelings.’”
(Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116, 1128 [257 Cal. Rptr.
665].)


(Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012)
208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1610 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            Moreover, a callous
disregard for professional and personal well-being is not extreme and outrageous
conduct:
While the allegations of defendants'
conduct, if true, demonstrate a callous disregard for plaintiffs' professional
and personal well-being, the alleged conduct as stated is not extreme or
outrageous to support a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.


(Moncada v. West Coast Quartz
Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780-81.)
            The facts pled do not constitute
extreme and outrageous conduct for purposes of this cause of action on behalf
of Cross-Complainant Kylie Douglas.
            The demurrer to the twelfth cause of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
5.         DEMURRER TO TWENTY-FOURTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Breach of Contract) The Twenty-Fourth Cause of Action in the SACC for
breach of contract by Mr. Fisher-Greene and Mr. Davis against 7M fails to plead
whether a contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10(g).)
            Cross-Defendants argue that this
cause of action fails to plead whether it was written, oral or implied by
conduct, and the terms of performance and 7M’s breach.
            However, ¶¶ 418 and 419 allege that
the contracts were oral, and generally state the terms and breach thereof:
 
418.
Kevin and Cross-Defendant 7M entered into an oral contract under which 7M would
take 15% of all of Kevin’s brand deals. Cross-Defendant 7M breached this
contract in taking 20% of all of Kevin’s brand deals.  
 
419.
Aubrey and Cross-Defendant 7M entered into an oral contract under which 7M
would provide Aubrey $6,000 for a song promotion. Cross-Defendant 7M breached
this contract in not paying Aubrey any of the $6,000 after Aubrey performed the
promotion. 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 418, 419.)
            “An
oral contract may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely
possible to allege the exact words. (Citation omitted.) A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures. (Citations omitted.)” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
            This cause of action is sufficiently
pled.
            The demurrer to the twenty-fourth cause
of action is OVERRULED.
6.         DEMURRER TO TWENTY-EIGHTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Violation of Labor Code, §§ 201–203) The Twenty-Eight Cause of Action
in the SACC for violation of Labor Code, §§ 201–203 by Mr. Gonzalez against
Shekinah fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)
            Cross-Defendants argue that Mr.
Gonzalez fails to allege the existence of an employment relationship, and the
terms thereof, nor intentional violations of the Labor Code.
            Cross-Complainant alleges as
follows:
130.
In February 2021, Matthew had David perform a shower remodel for an RCP
property for free so that David would learn to serve others for God’s work.
Matthew then told David to quit his job with City of Orange. Around this time
David met with Robert, Hannah, Shirley, and another Shekinah member, Daniel
Kim. Robert asked David how much he makes per job and told David to come
work for him. David told Robert to match his pay from City of Orange.
Robert told Shirley and Hannah to pay David out of Studio on the Mount.   
 
     (2ACC, ¶ 130.)
 
139.
Around the same time, Matthew told David he would be working at the Shekinah
property and asked David to give a quote for his services. David told
Matthew the cost of his services Matthew later told David that it was a
blessing to do God’s work and never paid him. 
David worked almost 12-hour days without any pay.   
 
140.
Matthew would sometimes give David clients from Matthew’s real estate work
for Alpha. Matthew initially, in 2021, told David to charge $100 per hour
of work. In 2022, Matthew told David to charge $150 per hour. Matthew told
David that these instructions came from Robert. David followed these
instructions.  
 
141.
Matthew took his cut as their real estate agent on the sale of their house.
Shekinah required them to give 10% of what was left as tithe and another 10% to
the Man of God as a cash donation. 
Christina Keller, a long-time member and “sub-mentor” of Shekinah, gave
Marilyn and David receipts that only reflected about 40% of the tithes they
gave Shekinah.   
 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 139 – 141 [bold emphasis added].)
 
444.
David was an employee of Shekinah. Shekinah provided David with jobs and
told David how much to charge for the work he performed. When David was
working on Shekinah properties he would show up and be told what to do, he was
not afforded initiative or control.  
 
445.
Sections 201 and 202 of the Labor Code require employers to promptly pay all
wages owing to an employee at the conclusion of employment. 
 
446.
David no longer works for Cross-Defendant. 
 
447.
David is informed and believes, and based thereon alleges, that
Cross-Defendant’s failure pay him upon his employment ending was willful. 
 
448.
David is no longer working for Cross-Defendant and is therefore entitled to
penalties against Cross-Defendant in an amount to be determined at trial
pursuant to Labor Code § 203.
 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 444 – 448 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            This is sufficient to allege the
existence of an employment relationship with Shekinah. Evidence thereof is a
matter for discovery. Whether or not Shekinah willfully failed to pay wages
upon David quitting, for purposes of the Labor Code, § 203 penalty, is a
question of fact. 
 
            The demurrer to the twenty-eighth
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
7.         DEMURRER TO THIRTY-FOURTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Violation of Labor Code, § 226) The Thirty-Fourth Cause of Action in
the SACC for violation of Labor Code, § 226 by Mrs. Gonzalez against 7M is
barred by the Statute of Limitations and this Court therefore lacks jurisdiction.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(a).)  
 
            Cross-Defendants argue that Marilyn
alleges that in July 2021 she “was directed to perform craft services for 7M” and
that she performed the work. (SACC, ¶ 482.) Marilyn further claims that she
“never received any wage statements for the work performed” and suffered
injuries. (Id., ¶ 484.) Conduct before March 21, 2022, is outside the statutes
of limitation; the Court therefore lacks jurisdiction over Marilyn’s
allegations as to the thirty-fourth cause of action; and the Court should
therefore strike these allegations. (Id., ¶¶ 482–485.)
 
            The one-year statute of limitations
set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 340(a) applies to “[a]action upon a statute for a penalty or
forfeiture, if the action is given to an individual, or to an individual and
the state, except if the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.”
 
            However, the three-year statute of limitations
set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 338(a) for “[a]n action upon a liability
created by statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture” applies to a recovery
of damages for violation of Labor Code, § 226. 
 
While California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 340 prescribes a one-year limitations
period for "[a]n action upon a statute for a penalty or
forfeiture," California Code Civil Procedure Section 338 sets a
three-year period for "[a]n action upon a liability created by statute,
other than a penalty or forfeiture." The plain language of California
Labor Code Section 226 provides for both actual damages and penalties. Cal. Labor Code §
226(e)(1) (providing that an employee suffering injury as a result of a knowing
and intentional failure to provide an accurate wage statement is entitled to
the greater of (1) "actual damages" or (2) specified penalties not to
exceed $4,000.00). District courts that have recently confronted the issue have come
to the same conclusion. See Sarkisov v. StoneMor
Partners, L.P., 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 47021, 2014 WL 1340762, *2 (N.D. Cal.
2014) (recognizing that two limitations periods could apply to a claim
under Section 226 because it authorizes damages and penalties); Mouchati v. Bonnie Plaints, Inc., 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 60855,
2014 WL 1661245, *8-9 (C.D. Cal. 2014) (same); Taylor v. West Marine Products,
Inc.,
2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 133728, 2014 WL 4683926, *7 (N.D. Cal.
2014) (following Sarkisov); Singer v. Becton, Dickenson
& Co.,
2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 56326, 2008 WL 2899825,
*4-5  [*1025]  (S.D. Cal. 2008). But see Werstiuk v. Jacobs
Engineering Group, Inc., 2014 Cal. App. Unpub. LEXIS 4203, 2014 WL 2621674, *5 (Cal.Ct.App.
2014) (finding that the one-year limitations period of Section 340 applies
to claims under Section 226(e)(1) based on Murphy v. Kenneth Cole
Productions, Inc., 40 Cal.4th 1094, 1108, 56 Cal. Rptr. 3d 880, 155 P.3d 284
(2007) where the California Supreme Court referred to Section
226 as imposing a penalty).
 
Where courts have found that the one-year limitations period of
California Civil Code Section 338(a) applies it has been in reliance on a
passing reference by the California Supreme Court to Section 226 as
imposing a penalty. Werstiuk, 2014 Cal. App. Unpub. LEXIS
4203, 2014 WL 2621674, *5 (citing Murphy, 40 Cal. 4th at 1108). In
referring to Section 226 as imposing a penalty, the California
Supreme Court only referred to the $50 and $100 figures recoverable under
subdivision (e).7 Murphy, 40 Cal.4th at 1108. Courts that have recognized
that two limitations periods apply to Section 226 have uniformly
found that the $50 and $100 figures recoverable under Section
226(e)(1) are penalties, subject to a one-year limitation period. Taylor, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 133728,
2014 WL 4683926 at *7; Sarkisov, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 47021,
2014 WL 1340762 at *2; Mouchati, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 60855,
2014 WL 1661245 at *8-9; Singer, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 56326,
2008 WL 2899825, *4-5. Furthermore,
those cases have noted that Section 226(e)(1) allows recovery for
lost wages which are a measure of damages, not a penalty. Id. This Court is convinced that Section
226 provides for both damages and penalties. Therefore, depending on the
relief sought, a claim pursuant to Section 226(e)(1) could be subject
to a one-year or a three-year limitations period.

(Novoa v. Charter Communs., Ltd. Liab. Co. (E.D. Cal. 2015) 100 F.Supp.3d 1013, 1024-25.)
 
            The original Complaint was filed in
this action on October 28, 2022. The 2ACC alleges that the video shoot occurred
in July 2021. (2ACC, ¶ 482.) Although the natural inference is it only took one
day, even if it took until August 2021, the one-year statute of limitations applicable
to statutory penalties would begin to run on that date and would expire in
August 2022, before the Complaint was filed in this action. Because Plaintiff
only seeks statutory penalties (2ACC, ¶ 486), this cause of action is
time-barred.
            
            The demurrer to the thirty-fourth
cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
8.         DEMURRER TO FORTY-FOURTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Unjust Enrichment – By Elisha Leigh Against Imaginating and Robert)
 
Cross-Defendants argue that the
Labor Code preempts claims for unjust enrichment predicated on claims for Labor
Code violations.
 
            This cause of action is pled in the
alternative, if no employment relationship is found. As such, it is not preempted
by the Labor Code. 
 
            However:
 
“Unjust enrichment is not a cause of
action, however, or even a remedy, but rather ‘ “ ‘a general principle,
underlying various legal doctrines and remedies’ ” … . [Citation.] It is
synonymous with restitution.’ ” (Citation omitted.) Like the trial court, we
will construe the cause of action as a quasi-contract claim seeking
restitution.
 
“[A]n action based on an
implied-in-fact or quasi-contract cannot lie where there exists between the
parties a valid express contract covering the same subject matter.” (Citation
omitted].) However, “restitution may be awarded in lieu of breach of contract
damages when the parties had an express contract, but it was procured by fraud
or is unenforceable or ineffective for some reason.” (McBride v. Boughton,
supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at p. 388.) Thus, a party to an express contract can
assert a claim for restitution based on unjust enrichment by “alleg[ing in that
cause of action] that the express contract is void or was rescinded.” (Citation
omitted.) A claim for restitution is permitted even if the party inconsistently
pleads a breach of contract claim that alleges the existence of an enforceable
agreement. (Citation omitted.)
 
(Rutherford Holdings, LLC v.
Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.)
 
            This cause of action is based on the
following allegations:
 
543.
Should the Court find that Ms. Leigh was not an employee of Imaginating and/or
that there was not an express contract for compensation, Ms. Leigh pleads in
the alternative that Imaginating and Robert received services from Ms. Leigh,
which she was not performing on a voluntary basis. Imaginating and Robert
enriched themselves at the expense of Ms. Leigh through the knowing and 
intentional
procurement of unpaid forced labor in the form of craft services.  
 
544.
Cross-Defendants’ conduct arose out of and was done at least in part to further
the trafficking scheme Ms . Leigh was subjected to. 
 
545.
Cross-Defendants were unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at trial.
 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 543 – 545.)
 
            “The mere nonpayment for
services ‘does not constitute unjust enrichment.’” (Citation omitted.)”  (Carter v. Entercom Sacramento, LLC
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 337, 353.) As such, there are no facts pled which
constitute unjust enrichment.
 
            The
demurrer to the forty-fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
9.         DEMURRER TO FORTY-SIXTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Unjust Enrichment – David Against Shekinah)
 
            This cause of action is based on the
following allegations:
 
552.
Should the Court find that David was not an employee of Shekinah and/or that
there was not an express contract for compensation, David pleads in the
alternative that Shekinah received services from David that he did not perform
on a voluntary basis. Shekinah enriched itself at David’s expense by soliciting
and not paying David for construction services David performed for Shekinah.
David provided these services to maintain his housing, food, and status with
Shekinah after being wrongfully coerced by Shekinah members into selling his
house and quitting his job.  
 
553.
Cross-Defendant Shekinah was unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at
trial.
 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 552, 553.)
 
            As noted above re: the forty-fourth
cause of action, “[t]he mere nonpayment for services ‘does not
constitute unjust enrichment.’” (Citation omitted.)”  (Carter, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at
353.) As such, there are no facts pled which constitute unjust enrichment.
 
            The
demurrer to the forty-sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
 
10.       DEMURRER TO FORTY-SEVENTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Unjust Enrichment – Kevin Against Shekinah).
 
            This cause of action is based on the
following allegations:
 
555.
Should the Court find that Kevin was not an employee of Shekinah and/or that
there was not an express contract for compensation, Kevin hereby pleads in the
alternative that Shekinah did not pay for services performed. Shekinah enriched
itself at Kevin’s expense by soliciting and not paying Kevin for music and
choreography services for Shekinah’s short film “The Circuit.”  
 
556.
Cross-Defendant Shekinah was unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at
trial.
 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 555, 556.)
 
As noted above re: the forty-fourth cause of action, “[t]he mere
nonpayment for services ‘does not constitute unjust enrichment.’” (Citation
omitted.)”  (Carter, supra, 219
Cal.App.4th at 353.) As such, there are no facts pled which constitute unjust
enrichment.
 
            The
demurrer to the forty-seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
 
11.       DEMURRER TO FORTY-EIGHTH CAUSE OF
ACTION Unjust Enrichment – Marilyn Against 7M).
 
            This cause of action is based on the
following allegations:
 
558.
Should the Court find that Marilyn was not an employee of 7M and/or that there
was not express contract for compensation, Marilyn pleads in the alternative
that 7M received services from Marilyn that she did not perform on a voluntary
basis. 7M enriched itself at Marilyn’s expense through knowing and intentional
procurement of unpaid forced labor in the form of craft services.  
 
559.
Cross-Defendant 7M was unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at
trial.
 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 558, 559.)
 
As noted above re: the forty-fourth cause of action, “[t]he mere
nonpayment for services ‘does not constitute unjust enrichment.’” (Citation
omitted.)”  (Carter, supra, 219
Cal.App.4th at 353.) As such, there are no facts pled which constitute unjust
enrichment.
 
            The
demurrer to the forty-eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
 
12.       DEMURRER TO FORTY-NINTH CAUSE OF
ACTION (Unjust Enrichment – By Aubrey, Kevin, and Kailea Against 7M).
 
            This cause of action is based on the
following allegations:
 
 
561.
Should the Court find that Aubrey, Kevin, and/or Kailea were not employees of
7M and/or that there were not express contracts for compensation, Aubrey,
Kevin, and Kailea plead in the alternative that 7M received services that
Aubrey, Kevin, and Kailea did not perform on a voluntary basis. 
 
562.
Cross-Defendant 7M enriched itself at Aubrey’s expense in not paying Aubrey for
a song promotion Aubrey performed for 7M’s benefit.  
 
563.
Cross-Defendant 7M enriched itself at Kevin’s expense in taking 5% more of
Kevin’s brand deals than 7M and Kevin had agreed upon. 
 
564.
Cross-Defendant 7M enriched itself at Kailea’s expense in only paying Kailea
about half agreed upon salary for videography services Kailea performed for
Cross-Defendant 7M’s benefit. 
 
565.
Cross-Defendant 7M was unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at
trial.
 
(2AXC, ¶¶ 561 – 565.)
 
As noted above re: the forty-fourth cause of action, “[t]he mere
nonpayment for services ‘does not constitute unjust enrichment.’” (Citation
omitted.)”  (Carter, supra, 219
Cal.App.4th at 353.) As such, there are no facts pled which constitute unjust
enrichment. 
Moreover, the other allegations
only plead a breach of contract, i.e., paying less than agreed upon, without
pleading why the contract is unenforceable or ineffective. (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 231.)
            The
demurrer to the forty-ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
13.       FIFTIETH CAUSE OF ACTION (Unjust
Enrichment – By David and Marilyn Against Matthew, Robert, Shekinah, and Studio
on the Mount). 
            This cause of action is based on the
following allegations: 
567.
Matthew, individually and as a representative of Shekinah, enriched himself [at]
David and Marilyn’s expense in convincing them to sell their house, with
Matthew as the seller’s agent, on the basis that Shekinah would provide housing
for them. Matthew informed David and Marilyn that they would receive payment
from Studio on the Mount as evidence of their relocation and sale of their
house. 
Shekinah
provided them with this payment but Shirley took it back using the access she
had to their financial accounts. Shekinah took money that was rightfully David
and Marilyn’s.  
 
568.
David was told by Robert, in the presence of Hannah and Shirley, that he would
get paid by Studio on the Mount, even though he would be working for Shekinah.
Shekinah provided David with jobs and told David how much to charge for the
work he performed. When David was working on Shekinah properties he would show
up and be told what to do, he was not afforded initiative or control. 
David
performed these services for Shekinah and for Studio on the Mount, and it
received the benefit of those services, which David was not performing on a
voluntary basis. 
 
569.
Robert and Shekinah enriched themselves in taking nearly $150,000 from David
and Marilyn at their expense.  
 
570.
Cross-Defendants were unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at trial.
 
(2ACC, ¶¶ 567 – 580.)
 
As noted above re: the forty-fourth cause of action, “[t]he mere
nonpayment for services ‘does not constitute unjust enrichment.’” (Citation
omitted.)”  (Carter, supra, 219
Cal.App.4th at 353.) As such, there are no facts pled which constitute unjust
enrichment. 
Moreover, the other allegations
only plead a breach of contract, without pleading why the contract is unenforceable
or ineffective. (Rutherford Holdings, LLC, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at
231.)
Further, the allegation that Shekinah
took money does not state a quasi-contract theory.
            The
demurrer to the fiftieth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
14.       DEMURRER
TO FIFTY-SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION (Declaratory Relief) The Fifty-Second Cause of Action in the SACC for
declaratory relief by Mr. Fisher- Greene, against Shekinah fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)
            Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action cannot be pled on information and belief, and
there are insufficient facts pled to show an ongoing or actual controversy.
 
576. As a result of the facts described
in the preceding paragraphs, there exists a controversy of sufficient immediacy
and reality to warrant the issuance of a declaratory judgment that the non-disclosure
agreement (the “NDA”) signed by Aubrey with Cross-Defendant Shekinah is
unenforceable and not legally binding. On information and belief,
Cross-Defendants take the position that the NDA is enforceable. 
 
577. Cross-Complainant Aubrey alleges
that the NDA is a generic internet form, overbroad and unenforceable as to
scope, lacking in consideration, too vague as to time, and too vague as to consequences
and is thus unenforceable. 
 
578. Cross-Complainant is entitled to a
declaratory judgment that the NDA is unenforceable and not legally
binding. 
     (2ACC, ¶¶ 576,
578.) 
            Here, the 2ACC
does not allege the terms of the NDA, nor attach a copy of the NDA to the 2ACC,
nor allege why such terms are unenforceable. 
            As such,
the demurrer to the fifty-second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. Cross-Complainant Aubrey Fisher-Greene will only be given one final opportunity
to amend.
            Cross-Complainant
Fisher-Greene is given 30 days’ leave to amend.


