 Case Number:  23CHCV01562    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  F49 DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Stewart Silver, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Beatrix Nagy
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint 
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
3rd Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring

·        
4th Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
5th Cause of Action: Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
6th Cause of Action: Violation of
Bane Act
·        
7th Cause of Action: Private Nuisance
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Beatrix Nagy alleges a tenancy in an
Recreational Vehicle (RV) part in Santa Clarita owned and/or managed by
Defendants Oceans 11 RV Park, LLC dba Cali lake RV Resort, and Stewart Silver.
Plaintiff resides in a “converted” “recreational room” rather than any form of
vehicle. In the last two years of Plaintiff’s tenancy, Plaintiff maintains the
unit flooded eight times, suffers from mold and insect infestation, contains
missing or damaged windows, lacks sufficient drainage, a leaking roof, non-working
and exposed electrical outlets, and damaged flooring. Plaintiff maintains that
upon demanding repairs, no such maintenance or work was performed, and
Defendants instead sought to force Plaintiff from the property.
 
On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach
of Implied Warranty of Habitability, Negligence, and Negligent Hiring. On June
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability, Negligence, Negligent Hiring, Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of
Bane Act, and Private Nuisance
 
RULING: Overruled.
Defendants
Oceans 11 RV Park, LLC dba Cali lake RV Resort (Oceans 11), and Stewart Silver
(Silver) submit a demurrer to the entire first amended complaint on grounds of
failure to allege each and every cause of action. Plaintiff in opposition
maintains all causes of action are sufficiently pled. The court electronic
filing system shows no reply on file at the time of the tentative ruling
publication cutoff.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal
pleading rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to
amend.]
 
The ”factual summary” demurrer
relies on the identification of third party “Farkas” whom Defendants allege
originally rented the subject premises for storage, then ended up taking up
residence with plaintiff Nagy into the unit. Farkas refuses to leave the
premises. As presented in the standard, the court cannot take any notice of the
existence of Farkas, the denial of any residential agreement, and/or the actual
basis of the parties agreement, in examining the subject demurrer. 
 
1st Cause of Action, Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability: Overruled
The argument lacks any legal
authority and depends on the extrinsic facts regarding the lack of a rented
residential space. The court declines to consider the argument. The demurrer is
overruled as to this cause of action. 
 
2nd Cause of Action, Negligence: Overruled.
Defendants maintain the complaint insufficiently
articulates negligence. The operative complaint articulates the perfunctory
factors for negligence, albeit without any specific facts. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917.) Given the incorporation of the prior allegations
regarding the condition of the premises and refusal to correct, the court finds
negligence sufficiently articulated. The demurrer is overruled.
 
3rd Cause of Action, Negligent Hiring:
Overruled.
In the demurrer to the subject
cause of action argument, Defendants challenge the lack of any allegations of
concealment and justifiable reliance, which appears nowhere within the cited
authority, CACI number 426. Again, the subject cause of action itself lacks
facts, but within the incorporation of the prior allegations regarding
the condition of the premises and refusal to correct, the court finds negligent
hiring, retention and supervision, sufficiently articulated. The demurrer is
overruled.
 
4th Cause of Action, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress: Overruled.
“‘The elements of a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant,
(2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress.’ [¶] Conduct is extreme and
outrageous when it exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent
society, and is of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does
cause, mental distress. Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities,
threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 617.) The operative complaint sufficiently alleges
the claim. The demurrer is overruled.
 
5th
Cause of Action, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress: Overruled.
Negligent infliction of
emotional distress depends on the existence of a valid negligence claim. The
court finds the negligence claim sufficiently pled and therefore a supporting
claim for direct victim emotional distress. (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1064, 1071.) The demurrer is overruled.
 
6th
Cause of Action, Violation of Bane Act: Overruled.
Defendants
again provide uncited authority in regards to the requirements for the Bane
Act. The complaint alleges a threat of displacement from the premises if
further complaints occurred. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 18.] The court declines to
consider unmade arguments. (Civ. Code, § 52.1.) The demurrer is overruled.
 
7th
Cause of Action, Private Nuisance: Overruled.
The argument lacks any citation to legal
authority. The court declines to make the arguments for Defendants. The
operative complaint sufficiently articulates private nuisance. The demurrer is
overruled.
 
The demurrer is
overruled. Defendants to answer within 10 days of this order.
 
Moving Defendants
to give notice.
 