  Case Number:  21CHCV00215    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  F49 RECONSIDERATION        
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Shawn Kerwin, pro per
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Ryan Canning 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Reconsideration of Prior Order Denying Relief
from Sanctions 
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On March 19, 2021, Plaintiffs Ryan Canning and Patricia
Bogarin, in pro per, filed a complaint for conversion, breach of written
agreement, breach of oral partnership agreement, breach of fiduciary duty,
unjust enrichment, abuse of process, and breach of oral rental agreement. On
April 23 and 26, 2021, Defendant Kerwin, in pro per, filed a cross-complaint
for assault and battery, defamation of character, corporate defamation, abuse
of personal credit, embezzlement and misuse of business funds negligence leading
to theft of all personal property, fraud, profiteering and investment fraud,
then answered the complaint.
 
On July 13, 2021, the court
granted the motion of Plaintiff Canning ONLY to expunge the December 14, 2020
recorded mechanics lien. Plaintiffs Ryan Canning and Patricia Bogarin, in pro
per, answered on September 14, 2021. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Defendant, Shawn Kerwin, pro per, moves to “vacate” the
April 26, 2023, denied motion for relief from admissions deemed admitted by the
court on August 8, 2022. Kerwin maintains that the admissions were served while
Defendant was incarcerated, thereby limiting access to legal resources.
Notwithstanding the representation of indigence and no attorney agreeing to pro
bono work, Kerwin contends “counsel” failed to timely serve any of the
admittedly received and drafted responses, thereby leading to the default.
Again, notwithstanding the apparent admission to responses, Kerwin maintains
that the motion lacked proof of service of any requests for admissions, thereby
seeking to question to validity of the underlying motion deeming the admissions
admitted. 
 
Plaintiffs in opposition challenges any basis of relief due
to incarceration. Plaintiffs challenge using incarceration as a basis for
meeting the standard of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect. Plaintiffs
concede to receipt of responses, but challenge the sufficiency of the
responses. Finally, Plaintiffs represent a pending motion for summary judgment
on which relief from admissions would severely prejudice moving parties.
 
The court electronic filing system shows no reply at the
time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff.
 
On August 8, 2022, the court granted the motion to deem admissions
admitted. The motion was based on the failure to provide any response to the
March 22, 2022, served requests for admissions. On April 26, 2023, the court
denied the motion for relief from admissions. The motion in part relies upon
service of admissions prior to the hearing on the motion for relief. The court
noted the lack of any proof of service of any admissions, but assumed responses
were served since Plaintiffs only challenged the code compliance and
sufficiency of the responses. Thus, the court concluded the service requirement
element of the requirement for relief was met though the court made no findings
regarding the sufficiency of the responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a)(1).)
The court instead found Defendant in fact failed to meet the “mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect” standard. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (a)(2).) The court specifically wrote: “Other than a terse statement contending the documents
were ‘stolen,’ it’s not clear as what the actual basis of mistake, inadvertence
or inexcusable neglect applies in the subject situation. The court maintains
the same standards for parties in pro per as those represented by attorneys.
The court cannot ignore the lack of information on grounds of Defendant’s
status.”
 
The subject motion effectively constitutes a motion for
reconsideration. “When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”


(Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd. (a).)
 
The motion itself was filed on July 24, 2023—more than
than 10 days after the April 26, 2023, order. The motion is therefore untimely,
and denied on this basis.
 
Even considering the
substantive arguments under section 1008, subdivision (a), however, the court
also finds no basis for relief on the substantive arguments. “A motion for
reconsideration may only be brought if the party moving for reconsideration can
offer ‘new or different facts, circumstances, or law which it could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the time of the prior
motion. (Citations.) A motion for reconsideration will be denied absent a
strong showing of diligence.” (Garcia v.
Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690; Forrest
v. State Of California Dept. Of Corporations (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 183,
202 disapproved of and overruled on
unrelated grounds in Shalant v. Girardi (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1164, 1172
(footnote 3); New York Times Co. v.
Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212–213; Baldwin v. Home Sav. of America. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1199.)
Disagreement with a ruling is not a new fact that will support the granting of
a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd v.  AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494,
1500.)
 
A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a
motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts,
circumstances or law.” (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.) 
Motions for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where a
party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and
some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Id.) 
 
The original motion lacked any basis for an allowance of
relief to admittedly received documents, and outside assistance. To the extent
the motion simply constitutes a re-argument of the motion, a disagreement over
the ruling will not support reconsideration. (Garcia v. Hejmadi , supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 691; Gilberd v. 
AC Transit, supra, 32 Cal.App.4th at p. 1500.) The new
arguments lack any explanation for both the change in basis for relief and
failure to present the arguments at an earlier date. The motion is therefore
denied on this basis as well. 
 
In holding a pro per to the same standard as other
litigants appearing in the courtroom, the court cites to the prevailing
standard. “Trial judges must acknowledge that pro per
litigants often do not have an attorney's level of knowledge about the legal
system and are more prone to misunderstanding the court's requirements. When all parties are
represented, the judge can depend on the adversary system to keep everyone on
the straight and narrow. When one party is represented and the other
is not, the lawyer, in his or her own client's interests, does not wish to
educate the pro per. The judge should monitor to ensure the pro per is not
inadvertently misled, either by the represented party or by the court. While
attorneys and judges commonly speak (and often write) in legal shorthand, when
a pro per is involved, special
care should be used to make sure that verbal instructions given in court and
written notices are clear and understandable by a layperson. This is the
essence of equal and fair treatment,
and it is not only important to serve the ends of justice, but to maintain
public confidence in the judicial system.” (Gamet
v. Blanchard, supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.) The court finds no
improper conduct by attorney Schwartz or a failure of the court to monitor the
action and protect the in pro per Defendant from potential pitfalls.
 
Nothing in this standard excuses improper or unsupported
argument. The court therefore again finds no basis for relief under the
reconsideration statute.
 
The court however notes that the statute for relief from
admissions was amended, thereby providing no time limit for a party to seek
relief. Even sua sponte considering the possibility for relief under the
standard within Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, the court lacks any
basis for relief. The motion again lacks any copies of the purportedly served
responses. The court accepts the declaration of counsel that said responses
were not verified either way, which renders the responses in fact non-code
compliant. The court otherwise precluded from considering any other
representations of non-code compliant responses for purposes of considering
whether the standard for relief is met. 
 
Public policy favors Defendant and “compels” the granting of the motion for relief
from waiver or leave to withdraw instead of allowing a trial or motion for
summary judgment. (New Albertsons, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1421.) The
court while sympathetic to the impact of admissions deemed admitted, especially
with the pending summary judgment and trial date, however, lacks any
evidentiary or legal basis for establishing a form of relief. The motion is
therefore denied.
 
Motion for Summary Judgment scheduled for November 21, 2023.
Trial remains set for December 4, 2023.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice.
 