 Case Number:  23TRCV02090    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 14, 2023¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02090
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Louis
A. Sparks, Jr. v. Willie Bell, et al.  
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants Willie and Maura Bell 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Louis A. Sparks (No Opposition)
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories
                                                (2)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Inspection Demand
(3) Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for Admission
(4) Request for Sanctions
(5) Ex Parte Application to Dismiss
¿
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) through (4) Mooted in light
of (5)
(5) Unless
Plaintiff appears at the December 14 hearing and provides reasonable grounds
for his failure to timely amend, the Court will DISMISS the Bell Defendants,
with prejudice, for Plaintiff’s failure to amend after the Demurrer to his Complaint
was sustained with 30 days leave to amend. 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On June 29, 2023, Louis A. Sparks (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants, Willie Bell, Maura Bell, Maura Sparks, Earl L
Coats, Davita Dialysis, Robert Sparks, Lois Sparks, Dennis Sparks, Wesslyn L.
Hamilton, Edward E. Sarks. Matrae L. Sparks, Marcus O. Sparks, Joyce R. Sparks,
Edelberto Ysaguirre, and Hilberto Ysaguirre (“Defendants”). The Complaint
appears to allege a cause of action for the crime of Murder, and Plaintiff
appears to claim that defendants conspired to murder his father in Texas for
financial gain. 
 
On August 1, 2023, Defendant notes that he served Form
Interrogatories, Inspection Demand, and Requests for Admission, Set One.
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has failed to respond. Defendant also notes
that he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff, including a letter to
Plaintiff dated on October 3, 2023. As such, Plaintiff has filed a Motion to
Compel responses, as well as Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for Admission. 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On November 11, 2023, Defendant filed Motions to Compel. To
date, no opposition has been filed.   On
October 3, 2023, the Court sustained the Bells Demurrer to the Complaint, with
30days leave to amend.  The Court encouraged
Plaintiff to secure a lawyer of other hep with drafting any amendment since the
original language of the Complaint was vague, was not in sentence or numbered
paragraph form, and did not state a civil cause of action but instead
referenced the Penal Code provision for murder. 
On December 13, 2023, the Bells filed an ex parte application to dismiss
themselves based on Plaintiff’s failure to amend a successfully demurred-to
Complaint within the given time period.  No
opposition papers have been filed as of the time this tentative ruling is being
posted.
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Motions to
Compel Responses 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
            Further, where there has
been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the
demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.)
Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work
product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief
from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There
is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to
respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court
before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular response
to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an
order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).)    
 
Here, Plaintiff failed to respond to any of
the three sets of discovery motions that are the subject of the motion hearing.
As such, Defendant’s motions to compel responses are GRANTED. This Court
also GRANTS each of Defendants’ motion to deem requests for admission admitted.
 
 
B.     The
Ex Parte Application to Dismiss the Bells Based on Plaintiff’s Failure to Amend
the Complaint 
On the day before the hearing on the
3 discovery motions, Defendants Willie and Maura Bell field an ex parte
application for an order dismissing them form the lawsuit based on Plaintiff’s failure
to amend the Complaint after the Court sustained the Bells’ Demurrer to the complaint.  The Court gave Plaintiff a month to amend and
encouraged him to seek the assistance of a licensed attorney to help him.  It has now been more than two months with no
amended complaint filed.   Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f)(2)
authorizes a court to dismiss a complaint as to a moving defendant after a
court sustains a demurrer and the plaintiff fails to amend within the specified
time period.  California Rule of Court 3.1320
provides as follows concerning the sustaining of a demurrer with leave to
amend:
“(g) Leave to answer or amend
Following a
ruling on a demurrer, unless otherwise ordered, leave to answer or amend within
10 days is deemed granted, except for actions in forcible entry, forcible
detainer, or unlawful detainer in which case 5 calendar days is deemed granted.
(h) Ex parte application to
dismiss following failure to amend
A motion to
dismiss the entire action and for entry of judgment after expiration of the
time to amend following the sustaining of a demurrer may be made by ex parte
application to the court under Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f)(2).”
Here, the Court gave Plaintiff 3 times the usual 10-day period
to amend the lawsuit in light of the substantial changes that would be required
and in light of his status as a self-represented litigant.  The Bells gave Plaintiff double the 30-day
period after expiration of the time to amend, before bringing their ex parte application
to dismiss.  Further, counsel for the Bells
attests in his declaration that he gave emailed notice of this application to
Mr. Sparks before 10 a.m. on December 13, for the December 14 hearing date
where 3 other motions were already noticed to be heard on regular notice, i.e.,
not on ex parte notice.  Accordingly, it
was not unreasonable for defense counsel to seek the dismissal on the same date
where plaintiff might reasonably be expected to attend or appear remotely.   
            Unless
Plaintiff appears at the December 14 hearing and provides reasonable grounds
for his failure to timely amend, the Court will DISMISS the Bell Defendants,
with prejudice, for Plaintiff’s failure to amend after the Demurrer to his Complaint
was sustained with 30 days leave to amend. 
¿¿¿ 