  Case Number:  22STCV28389    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion Of Defendant Southern California Conference of Seventh-Day Adventists for
Order Compelling Plaintiff John Doe To Comply With Demand For Physical
Examination, And Imposing Monetary Sanctions. Motion Thereof for Mental
Examination (C.C.P. §§2032.310-2032.320).
BACKGROUND
In this case, JOHN DOE (“Plaintiff”) seeks damages from
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CONFERENCE OF SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISTS (“Defendant”) arising from
alleged childhood sexual abuse perpetrated against Plaintiff by a teacher at a
school owned by Defendant. 
Defendant served a demand for a physical exam of
Plaintiff pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2032.220 and Plaintiff
served an objection to the demand, stating that Plaintiff refused to submit to
the exam. Defendant now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to the
physical exam as stated in the demand. Defendant has withdrawn its prior
request for sanctions in connection with this motion.  
Separately, Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to submit to a mental exam, as well as sanctions. Plaintiff opposes both
motions and seeks sanctions. This tentative ruling addresses both motions. 
Defendant’s unopposed requests for judicial notice are
granted.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Physical Exams:
A party may seek a physical exam of a personal injury plaintiff by serving a
demand that meets the following conditions: “(1) the examination does not
include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or
intrusive. (2) the examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the
residence of the examinee.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220(a)(1), (2). The plaintiff
may serve objections to the demand, including a refusal to submit to the exam. Id.,
§ 2032.230(a). A party may move to compel the physical exam if it deems the refusal
to submit to the exam is unwarranted. Id., § 2032.250(a).
Mental Exams:
A party may seek a court order for a mental exam based on a showing of good
cause. Code Civ. Proc., §2032.310(a), §2032.320(a).  A notice of motion for a mental exam “‘shall
specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.’” 
Carpenter v. Sup. Ct (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 249, 259
(hereafter, “Carpenter”); Code Civ. Proc., §2032.310(b).  The moving party must also include a meet and
confer declaration showing efforts to resolve the issues in the motion. Code
Civ. Proc., §2032.310(b). Code of Civil Procedure Section 2032.320(d) provides
that an order granting a mental examination “shall specify the person or
persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope and nature of the
examination.” 
“‘A determination of whether an attempt at informal
resolution is adequate . . . involves the exercise of discretion.’”  Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency (2001)
87 Cal. App. 4th 1006, 1016.
ANALYSIS
            Physical
Exam
Plaintiff testified at his deposition that he cannot
get an erection and sexually climax due to the sexual abuse he suffered. Defendant
seeks a physical exam of Plaintiff to determine if Plaintiff’s sexual issues
stem from a physiological condition as opposed to the emotional injuries he
claims because of the alleged abuse. The demand states that the exam will include
a physical exam of Plaintiff’s abdomen and genitalia, and a blood test. Diaz
Decl., Ex. 3. Plaintiff served an objection, stating that the exam would be painful,
protracted, and intrusive, and violates his privacy rights. Id., Ex. 5. Plaintiff
also contended that the demand was untimely. In his opposition to the motion,
Plaintiff also complains that the demand seeks for the exam to take place in
San Francisco, which is more than 75 miles from his home. 
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate how and why a physical
exam of his abdomen and genitalia, and a blood test, constitutes a painful,
protracted, or intrusive test or procedure. Plaintiff instead argues that the
exam violates his privacy rights. The Court disagrees. The cases relied on by Plaintiff
are inapposite because they do not concern the issue of a physical exam in the
context of a personal injury lawsuit where Plaintiff has put his physical well-being
squarely at the center of the case. Plaintiff’s Complaint placed in issue his related
physical damages occurring after alleged sexual molestation. He testified about
his sexual difficulties at his deposition and how they are related to his
abuse. He cannot make these claims the center of his case and then credibly
protest to submitting to a physical exam related to those issues. 
While Defendant is correct that Plaintiff did not
raise the 75-mile issue in his written objection to the demand, there is
insufficient evidence establishing that the parties had reached a stipulation
that the exam would take place in San Francisco. “Unless it is clear from the
record that both parties assented, there is no stipulation.”  Sarracino v. Superior Court (1974) 13
Cal. 3d 1, 14. In the absence of a stipulation, Defendant’s demand fails to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure Section 2032.220(a)(2), irrespective of
whether or not Plaintiff specifically noted such deficiency in his notice. 
As for the timeliness argument, it is moot because the
Court signed the parties’ stipulation to continue the trial date and all
related deadlines. This means that Defendant could now serve a revised timely
demand. The Court therefore concludes that Defendant is entitled to the physical
exam as described in the demand, except that it must take place within 75 miles
from Plaintiff’s home unless the parties stipulate otherwise. The parties shall
meet and confer on this issue and then Defendant can re-serve another demand.
If the parties are unable to come to an agreement on the physical exam despite
this Court’s directions, they must schedule an IDC with the Court prior to the
continued hearing on this motion. 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
            Mental
Exam
Defendant seeks a mental exam to assess Plaintiff’s
current emotional distress, and whether any prior history of trauma may have
played a role. Plaintiff objects that the length of the mental exam of up to
fifteen hours total is excessive and includes irrelevant tests. Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that the exam should not include Plaintiff’s entire medical
history with intrusions into private matters beyond the limited scope of
implied waiver due to filing the Complaint. Also, Plaintiff contends there is a
right to record the audio of an entire exam. The reply argues that declarations
of Dr. Austin Blum and Dr. Christine Naber show that these evaluations are
often tiring and stressful and conducting the examination over two days would
give Plaintiff time for breaks. Reply, p.4.
An examination is limited to the continuing injuries
or condition that are in controversy in the litigation. Code Civ. Proc.,
§2032.020(a); Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878,
1886-1887. The Court concludes that good cause exists for Plaintiff to submit
to a mental exam. The parties need to meet and confer to work out their
differences on the details of the exam. 
The potential length and breadth of the exam, held
over two days with two different examiners, seems excessive in relation to the
allegations of molestation long ago of a minor. Perhaps counsel should agree to
a shorter period. 
The question whether judges presently have authority
to authorize obtaining medical
histories in physical or mental examinations, is undecided and debatable
on any appeal. See Cal. Prac. Guide:
Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) §8:1520.1. Taking Plaintiff’s
medical history needs to be limited and directly related to the allegations of
molestation. Although discovery of other stressors may be relevant, the party
seeking private information has the burden to show that the information is
directly relevant to the claims, by identifying the specific emotional injuries
claimed, and showing a nexus between the claimed damages and distress or other
harm which may be shown by private information. 
E.g., Brenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 794,
801-802.
There is a statutory right to record the mental exam. Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.530 (a).
Now that the trial date and discovery deadline have
been extended, the Court expects the parties to work on these issues and reach
a stipulation for the mental exam. As with the physical exam, the Court will
continue the hearing to enable the parties to do this work and schedule an IDC
in the event they cannot reach an agreement on the exam. 
The Court denies the parties’ respective requests for
sanctions. 
CONCLUSION
The Court continues the motions. The Court will discuss
dates with counsel at the hearing to find a date that works for all counsel. 
 