 Case Number:  23STCV29070    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Southern California Edison Company
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Pacific Weed Control, Inc. 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Southern California Edison Company
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Pacific Weed Control, Inc.
 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff Pacific Weed Control, Inc. filed its
Complaint against Defendant Southern California Edison Company on causes of
action arising from the Parties’ contract and contractual relations. 
 
On March 8, 2024, Defendant filed its Demurrer and its Motion to
Strike. Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Request for Judicial Notice; (2)
Declaration of Julia A. Mosel (in support of the Demurrer); (3) Declaration of
Julia A. Mosel (in support of the Motion to Strike); (4) Proposed Order (for Demurrer);
and (5) Proposed Order (for Motion to Strike). 
 
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Oppositions to the Demurrer and
the Motion to Strike. Plaintiff concurrently filed its Objections to the
Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Defendant filed its Replies in support of the
Demurrer and Motion to Strike. Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Response to
Objections; and (2) Custodian of Records Declaration. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests that the Court
take judicial notice of various emails. 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice of Exhibits A, B and C, and DENIES Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice of Exhibit D.
 
II.      
Demurrer

 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the third through fifth causes of action in the
Complaint. 
 
1. 
    Intentional
Misrepresentation
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter
or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant argues that the third cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation fails because Plaintiff did not plead with particularity
facts as to each element of the cause of action. (Demurrer, p. 4:24–25.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges: (1) that Defendant’s contract
manager made multiple representations to Plaintiff, including representations about
Plaintiff’s level of effort, whether a unit rate would require an increase, and
whether Plaintiff could recover increased costs incurred; (2) that these
representations were false; (3) that at the time Defendant’s contract manager
made these representations, the contract manager knew the representations were
false or made them recklessly without any regard for their truth; (4) based on
the Parties’ history with each other, the contract manager and others within
Defendant had sufficient information to know that additional effort would be
involved to incorporate a project into the workflow; (5) that the contract
manager intended that Plaintiff would rely on these representations; (6) that
Plaintiff reasonably relied on the representations; and (7) that Plaintiff was
harmed by the misrepresentations. (Complaint, ¶¶ 52–57.)
 
        These allegations meet the heightened
pleading standard for intentional misrepresentation, and they also sufficiently
plead each of the elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation. 
 
        “The courts should not ...
seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly technical requirements
of form in pleading. Pleading facts in ordinary and concise language is as
permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal construction of the
pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in other cases.” (Appollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital
Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 242.)


        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation.
 
2. 
    Fraudulent
Concealment
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked.
(Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent
concealment, arguing: (1) that Plaintiff does not plead facts showing Defendant
had a duty to disclose; (2) that Plaintiff does not allege with specificity
what facts were concealed; and (3) that the alleged facts negate any
justifiable reliance. (Demurrer, pp. 12:7, 13:11, 14:4, 14:9–10.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
First, the Court is not aware of a legal requirement that Parties’ must
have specific duties (e.g., a fiduciary duty) toward each other for causes of
action of fraudulent concealment. Rather, the “duty” to not conceal facts
arises when a party with knowledge of facts knows that those facts are untrue
and conceals them anyway to induce reliance. When that party actually induces
justifiable reliance and causes harm, that is textbook fraud.
 
        Second, Plaintiff did allege with
specificity the facts that were concealed, including: (1) that additional work
would be necessitated; and (2) that there would be costs increases for the
work. (Complaint, ¶ 63.)
 
        Finally, Plaintiff alleged that it would
have acted differently had it known about the concealed facts, that it would
not have agreed upon the unit rate, or that it would not have entered the
contract at all. (Complaint, ¶ 64.) Whether or not this reliance was actually
reasonable involves a question of fact that is not suitable for resolution on a
demurrer. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
 
3. 
    Negligent
Misrepresentation
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
The elements of a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy
of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation, arguing that it is a restatement of the fraud claim and
fails for the same reasons. 
 
        The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
argument. 
 
        These causes of action are
not simple restatements of each other. Even if they were, “it is a waste of time and judicial
resources to entertain a motion challenging part of a pleading on the sole
ground of repetitiveness. (See Civ.Code, § 3537 [“Superfluity does not
vitiate”].) This is the sort of defect that, if it justifies any judicial intervention
at all, is ordinarily dealt with most economically at trial, or on a
dispositive motion such as summary judgment.” 
(Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 890.)
 
        Regardless, the Court overruled the
Demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action. The Demurrer to the fifth
cause of action must be overruled for the same reasons discussed for those
causes of action. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
III.    
Motion
to Strike
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a
notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(a).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to strike various allegations from the
Complaint, arguing: (1) that the Complaint does not allege any facts showing
malice or oppression; (2) that the Complaint does not state any causes of
action for fraud; (3) that Plaintiff did not allege any wrongful conduct on the
part of Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing agents; and (4) that the
contract between the Parties’ precludes allegations that Defendant deprive
Plaintiff of lost revenue due to underutilization of Plaintiff’s services.
(Motion to Strike, pp. 3:24–25, 5:3, 13:6–7, 14:16–17.)
 
        The Court disagrees with these
arguments. 
 
Allegations of fraud (including intentional misrepresentation and
fraudulent concealment) do not depend on what exists in a contract when the
allegations are that the fraud induced the contract. Such allegations are made
here. 
 
        Furthermore, Plaintiff has sufficiently
pleaded causes of action for fraud. It will ultimately be Plaintiff’s burden to
prove that it is entitled to the relief that it seeks. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 