 Case Number:  21STCV38410    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for an Order Directing the
Department of Veteran’s Affairs to Produce Documents at Trial and for Testimony
by Department of Veteran’s Affairs Employee, Dr. Tom Blair
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Southern California Permanente Medical Group 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Jawchyi C. Lee
 
 
 
The Motion is GRANTED in part. The VA is REQUESTED to produce at trial
the documents at issue and to produce Dr. Tom Blair for testimony.   
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff Jawchyi
C. Lee filed his Complaint against Defendant Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (initially sued as Kaiser Foundation Hospitals) on causes of
action of defamation, violation of Health and Safety Code section 1278.5,
violations of Labor Code section 6300 et seq. and 6400 et seq., and violation
of Labor Code section 1102.5. 
 
        On October 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed his
First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
        On February 8, 2022, Defendant filed its
Answer to the FAC.
 
        On March 29, 2024, Defendant filed
Motion for an Order Directing the Department of Veteran’s Affairs to Produce Documents
at Trial and for Testimony by Department of Veteran’s Affairs Employee, Dr. Tom
Blair (“Motion”). In support of its Motion, Defendant concurrently filed its
Proposed Order. 
 
        On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition to the Motion. Later that day, Plaintiff filed his Notice of Errata.

 
        On April 5, 2024, Defendant filed its
Reply in support of the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“Any of the following methods may be used
to obtain discovery within the state from a person who is not a party to the
action in which the discovery is sought:
“(1) An oral deposition under Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 2025.010).
 
“(2) A written deposition under Chapter 11
(commencing with Section 2028.010).
 
“(3) A deposition for production of business
records and things under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410) or
Article 5 (commencing with Section 2020.510).”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).)
 
“Except as provided in subdivision (a)
of Section 2025.280, the process by which a nonparty is required to provide
discovery is a deposition subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).)
 
“A deposition subpoena may
command any of the following:
 
“(a) Only
the attendance and the testimony of the deponent, under Article 3 (commencing
with Section 2020.310).
 
“(b) Only
the production of business records for copying, under Article 4 (commencing
with Section 2020.410).
 
“(c) The
attendance and the testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of
business records, other documents, electronically stored information, and
tangible things, under Article 5 (commencing with Section 2020.510).”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
 
“Subject to subdivision
(c) of Section 2020.410, service of a deposition subpoena shall be effected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated business records,
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things, as described
in Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410), and, where personal attendance
is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of deposition.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)
 
“Personal service of any deposition
subpoena is effective to require all of the following of any deponent who is a
resident of California at the time of service:
 
“(1) Personal attendance and testimony, if
the subpoena so specifies.
 
“(2) Any specified production, inspection,
testing, and sampling.
 
“(3) The deponent’s attendance at a court
session to consider any issue arising out of the deponent’s refusal to be
sworn, or to answer any question, or to produce specified items, or to permit
inspection or photocopying, if the subpoena so specifies, or specified testing
and sampling of the items produced.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)
 
“A deposition subpoena that commands
the attendance and the testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of
business records, documents, electronically stored information, and tangible
things, shall:
 
“(1) Comply with the requirements of Section
2020.310.
 
“(2) Designate the business records,
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things to be
produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by
reasonably particularizing each category of item.
 
“(3) Specify any testing or sampling that is
being sought.
 
“(4) Specify the form in which any
electronically stored information is to be produced, if a particular form is
desired.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.510, subd. (a).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to compel the
United States Department of Veteran’s Affairs (“VA”) to: (1) produce documents;
and (2) produce one of its employees, Dr. Tom Blair, for testimony at trial.
(Motion, p. 9:12–13.)
 
Defendant argues that this would be
appropriate because: (1) the VA will comply with a court order compelling
production of documents and witness testimony; (2) the requested documents are
relevant to the pending lawsuit; (3) the testimony of Dr. Tom Blair, who was
Plaintiff’s supervisor at the VA, is relevant to the issues in this case; and
(4) that the Hill balancing test weighs in favor of compelling the
production of the requested records at trial. (Motion, pp. 6:8–9, 6:17–18,
7:22–23, 8:9–10.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) that
the Court denied this request when it was submitted on an ex parte basis;
(2) that the Motion is inappropriate because the Court cannot compel the VA to
produce these documents or its employee for testimony; and (3) that Plaintiff
has an overriding privacy interest in his personnel file. (Opposition, pp.
4:4–5, 5:1–2, 6:1–7.)
 
In its Reply, Defendant argues: (1) that
it seeks a narrowly-tailored set of documents and testimony; (2) that
Plaintiff’s testimony from his deposition has opened the door to evidence
regarding failure to mitigate damages; (3) that Plaintiff’s procedural
arguments are meritless; (4) that the requested documents from Plaintiff’s
personnel file and testimony from his supervisor at the VA are relevant to
Defendant’s defenses; and (5) that Plaintiff does not meet his burden under the
Hill balancing test. (Reply, pp. 1:23–24, 2:9–10, 3:14–15, 5:7–8,
7:5–6.)
 
B.      The Ex Parte Application
 
On February 16, 2024, Defendant filed its
Ex Parte Application for Issuance of a Court-Signed Subpoena to the
Department of Veteran’s Affairs (“Ex Parte Application”). The subpoena
in the Ex Parte Application requested:
 
“Any and all records regarding Jawchyi
Lee, M.D. including but not limited to his personnel file, wage statements,
1099s, paycheck stubs, performance reviews, patient complaints, benefits
received, schedule/documents pertaining to hours worked, documents regarding
his termination, and all other documents pertaining to Dr. Lee’s work as a part
time physician for the Veterans Administration from 2017 to the present.” (Ex
Parte Application, Exh. A, Attachment 3 [actual page 13 of 41].)
 
On February 21, 2024, the Court denied
the Ex Parte Application. The Court wrote that it “does not find that
applicant has made an affirmative factual showing of irreparable harm, immediate
danger or any other statutory basis for granting relief via ex parte. Also, the
requested proposed subpoena is overbroad.” (Minute Order dated February 21,
2024, p. 1.)
 
As to the ex parte nature and
issue with the relief requested, that is no longer at issue here because
Defendant has requested this relief via noticed motion. 
 
The Court will discuss issues with
overbreadth in the section below regarding privacy. 
 
C.      Overbreadth and Privacy
 
1.      Legal Standard
 
The California
Constitution includes the inalienable right to privacy. (Cal. Const., Art. I, §
1.)
 
“The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party
seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternative that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations.” (Williams v. Super. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552,
citing Hill v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Ass’n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.)
 
The balancing test outlined in Hill applies whenever lesser
privacy interests are at stake. (Williams, supra, at p.
556.) The Court only applies the higher “compelling interest” standard to
justify “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.”
(Ibid.) For example, a party must meet the compelling interest
standard to discover an opposing party’s medical information. (Davis v.
Super. Ct. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1015, 1020.) 
 
2.      Discussion
 
a.     
Overbreadth 
 
The Motion requests a narrower scope of
material than was requested in the Ex Parte Application. Specifically,
the Motion requests:
 
(1)       Plaintiff’s performance reviews from the VA from 2019 to 2022;
 
(2)       Complaints made against Plaintiff at the VA’s Greater Los Angeles
Medical Center from 2019 to 2022, with confidential patient identifying
information redacted; 
 
(3)       All documents regarding discipline of Plaintiff while working at
the VA’s Greater Los Angeles Medical Center from 2019 to 2022; 
 
(4)       All documents regarding the renewal/non-renewal of Plaintiff’s
privilege to practice emergency medicine at the VA’s Greater Los Angeles
Medical Center in 2021;
 
(5)       All documents regarding Plaintiff’s Complaint to Dr. Simon
regarding personal protective equipment, including but not limited to a
specific letter referenced during Plaintiff’s deposition;
 
(6)       All communication with Dr. Tom Blair regarding disagreements in
Plaintiff’s patient care from 2019 to 2022; and
 
(7)       All communication with Dr. Tom Blair regarding disagreements over
resident training from 2019 to 2022.
 
(Motion, Exh. B, pp. 2–3 [actual pages 49–50 of 76].)
 
        Unlike the Ex Parte
Application, the Motion does not request Plaintiff’s “personnel file, wage
statements, 1099s, paycheck stubs . . . and all other documents pertaining to
Dr. Lee’s work as a part time physician for the Veterans Administration from
2017 to the present.” (Ex Parte Application, Exh. A, Attachment 3
[actual page 13 of 41].)
Rather, the documents requested are significantly narrower in both
substantive and temporal scope. 
 
        The Court does not
find that this request is overbroad. 
 
                       b.     Privacy
 
        As to privacy, the
Court first considers which standard is appropriate for this situation.  
 
        Examples of obvious
invasions of the right of privacy that require the compelling interest standard
include the right to marriage, the right to procreation, and the right of a
woman to choose not to bear children (including the choice of using a
contraceptive device, medication, and, subject to law, termination of a
pregnancy). (See Conservatorship of Valerie N. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 143,
161, 163–164; see also Comm. to Def. Reprod. Rts. v. Myers (1981) 29
Cal.3d 252, 275.) Other such examples are a statute that requires parental
consent or judicial authorization before a minor may obtain an abortion (Am.
Acad. of Pediatrics, supra, 16 Cal.4th at pp. 313–314, 340–341) and
a provision that a responsible relative be informed of the nature and
seriousness of a patient’s disorder (Aden v. Younger (1976) 57
Cal.App.3d 662, 681). 
 
        In contrast, examples of
invasions of the right of privacy that do not require the compelling interest
standard include drug testing programs (Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at
p. 9) and, under certain circumstances, discoverable contact information (Pioneer
Elecs. (USA), Inc. v. Super. Ct. (2007) 150 P.3d 198, 207). 
 
        Here, the appropriate standard is the balancing test under Williams
and Hill, not the compelling interest standard under Davis.
The records requested involve documents and testimony regarding an employer’s
performance reviews of Plaintiff, complaints made by Plaintiff, complaints made
about Plaintiff, discipline of Plaintiff, the choice to not hire Plaintiff, and
communications of Plaintiff’s supervisor about Plaintiff’s training and patient
care. Unlike documents that go directly to Plaintiff’s autonomy, these records
are about actions he took or that were taken against him during his employment
as a doctor with a public agency. They are more akin to receiving standard
discoverable information than they are about an obvious invasion of personal
autonomy.
 
        In applying the
balancing test, the Court begins by noting that Plaintiff has demonstrated an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in these circumstances and that
the threatened intrusion is serious. After all, the Court does not have any
reason to believe that the documents requested are publicly available. (U.S.
Code, tit. 5, § 522a, subd. (b) [“No agency shall disclose any record which is
contained in a system of records by any means of communication to any person,
or to another agency, except [exceptions listed].”].) 
 
On the other side, Defendant raises
legitimate and important countervailing interests for the disclosure.
Specifically, Defendant points to CACI 3930 (“Mitigation of Damages (Personal
Injury)”) for the proposition that this information is needed for a failure to
mitigate defense. (See also Defendant’s Answer, dated February 8, 2022, listing
“failure to mitigate damages” as its twenty-second affirmative defense.)
 
“It has been the policy of the courts to promote the mitigation of
damages. The doctrine applies in tort, wilful as well as negligent. A
plaintiff cannot be compensated for damages which he could have avoided by
reasonable effort or expenditures.” (Green v. Smith (1968) 261
Cal.App.2d 392, 396, citations omitted.)
 
“However, while the burden of proving the extent
of injury, including attorney fees, actually incurred as a result of a defendant's tortious conduct lies with
the plaintiff, the burden of proving the plaintiff failed to act reasonably in
limiting his or her consequential damages—that is, failed to mitigate
damages—is on the defendant in a malicious prosecution action, as it is in any
other tort action.” (Jackson v. Yarbray (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 75, 97,
citations omitted.)
 
“The rule of mitigation of damages comes into play
after a legal wrong has occurred, but while some damages may still be averted.” (Pool v. City of Oakland (1986)
42 Cal.3d 1051, 1066, cleaned up.)
 
The causes of action listed in the FAC
include defamation. While the allegations listed in the FAC indicate that there
could be reputational damages that would have been impossible to mitigate, they
also indicate that there could be specific employment damages (e.g., damages
that subsequently arise from an inability to be employed elsewhere). In such a
situation, evidence of Plaintiff’s own misconduct at a prior employer that
prevented him from obtaining employment subsequent to the alleged defamation —
and thus failing to mitigate these specific damages — would be relevant to
Defendant’s defense.  
 
Upon balancing these competing
considerations, the Court finds in favor of Defendant’s need to discover this
information. The Court does not know if there is any evidence of misconduct by
Plaintiff that would contribute to a failure to mitigate defense. However,
Defendant would be significantly prejudiced by not discovering what evidence
does exist. In contrast, by bringing the defamation claim and acknowledging
during the deposition that he had disagreements with his VA supervisors,
Plaintiff has opened the door to questions about his disciplinary and hiring
record while he worked at the VA. It is important to note that if Plaintiff
does prevail on proving his causes of action, Defendant will still have the
burden to demonstrating that there was a failure to mitigate here. (Jackson, supra, 179
Cal.App.4th at p. 97.)
 
D.        
Federalism,
Sovereign Immunity, and Subject Matter Jurisdiction
 
The Parties are concerned about an issue
that involves federalism, sovereign immunity, and subject matter jurisdiction.
Specifically, the issue is whether the VA is required to comply with an order
by a state court for records and testimony. 
 
The letter submitted in support of the
Motion appears to be from the Office of Chief Counsel of the VA. Among other
things, the letter states: “if VA receives a valid, judge-signed court order
instructing VA to produce records or make a VA employee(s) available for
testimony at deposition or trial, absent extenuating circumstances, VA will
usually comply.” (Motion, Exh. A, p. 3 [actual page 16 of 76].)
 
The Court recognizes that “[t]he doctrine of sovereign immunity prohibits any sort of
judicial action against the United States in the absence of its consent, a consent
usually manifested by legislation.” (Civiletti v. Mun. Court (1981) 116
Cal.App.3d 105, 110.) The Court is unaware of any consent to state trial courts
compelling documents and testimony from the VA in this context. 
 
At this time, the issue of potential noncompliance
by the VA with an order of the Court is unripe. The Court will request that the
VA produce the documents and testimony at issue.
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED in part. The VA is REQUESTED to produce at trial
the documents at issue and to produce Dr. Tom Blair for testimony.   
 
 