 Case Number:  23STCV20864    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Verified Application to Appear as
Counsel Pro Hac Vice
 
Moving Party: David
A. Klein
Resp. Party:    None
 
        
        The
Court GRANTS the Application, conditional on Counsel Applicant providing: (1) his
residential address; (2) proof of the $50.00 payment to the State Bar; and (3)
proof of service on the State Bar at its San Francisco address.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 30, 2023,
Law Offices of William I Rothbard (“Rothbard”) and The Altman Law Group
(“Altman”) filed their Complaint against Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason
Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. on causes of action arising from a
fee dispute. Rothbard and Altman are both sole proprietorships, and they are
litigating this matter in propria persona. 
 
On September 19,
2023, Rothbard and Altman filed their Verified First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On December 26, 2023,
Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. filed
their Verified Answer. 
 
On January 5, 2024,
Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C.
filed: (1) Amended Verified Answer; and (2) Verified Cross-Complaint against
Rothbard and Altman.
 
On February 9, 2024,
Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C.
filed their Amended Verified Cross-Complaint (“FACC”). 
 
On March 20, 2024,
David Klein filed his Verified Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice
(“Application”). 
 
 
        CONCLUSION:
 
Counsel Applicant seeks admission to appear
as counsel pro hac vice to represent Defendants in this action, and to be associated as co-counsel with Panda Kroll.
 
Counsel Applicant is a member in good
standing of the State of New Jersey, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and the
United States Court of Appeal for the Third Circuit. (Application, ¶¶ 2–3.)
 
Counsel Applicant has not appeared in the
last two years in any cases before California state courts or federal courts
located in California. (Application, ¶ 3.)
 
Counsel Applicant has not provided proof that
the $50.00 fee required to be admitted pro hac vice has been paid to the
State Bar of California. (Application, ¶ 8.) Further, Counsel Applicant has not
yet provided proof of service of the Application on the State Bar of California
at its San Francisco address. (Ibid.) Finally, Counsel Applicant has
only provided his city and state of residence, not his address as required by
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(1). (Application, ¶ 1.)
 
        The Court GRANTS the
Application, conditional on Counsel Applicant providing: (1) the residential
address; (2) proof of the $50.00 payment to the State Bar; and (3) proof of
service on the State Bar at its San Francisco address.
 