  Case Number:  24TRCV01221    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MONICA
  MANSOUR, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01221




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MERCEDES-BENZ
  USA, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Monica Mansour and Hane Zarzour
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers and the joint status report.
RULING
See below under Discussion and
Order.
BACKGROUND
            On April 9, 2024, Monica Mansour and
Hane Zarzour filed a complaint against Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and House of
Imports, Inc. for (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty, (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty, and
(3) negligent repair.  Plaintiffs allege
that on April 28, 2023, they leased a 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQS-Class.  In July 2023, plaintiffs presented the
vehicle for repairs and reported the A/C system malfunctioning and the “Battery
Malfunction” light flashing on the dashboard. 
In September 2023, plaintiffs presented the vehicle and reported the
“Driver Assistance Operative,” “Tire Pressure Monitoring System,” and “Battery
Malfunction” warnings illuminating on the dashboard.  In December 2023, plaintiffs presented the
vehicle and reported the High Voltage battery depleting rapidly and the battery
monitor displayed significantly varied estimates when charging the vehicle.  Id., 14. 
In February 2024, plaintiffs presented the vehicle for repeated concerns
of the A/C system malfunctioning and difficulty charging the vehicle.  The following error messages illuminated on
the dashboard:  “Towing Not Permitted,”
“Active Emergency Stop Assist Inoperative,” “Battery Malfunction,” and “Active
Steering Assist Inoperative.”  
            On September 18, 2024, defendant
Mercedes filed motions to compel further responses to written discovery.
            On September 30, 2024, plaintiffs
filed a motion to compel the deposition of Mercedes’ PMK and a motion to compel
further responses to request for production.
            On October 3, 2024, defendant filed
a motion to compel the deposition of plaintiff Monica Mansour. 
            On October 30, 2024, defendant took
its six motions to compel further responses off calendar.
            On November 1, 2024, an IDC was
held.  The Court ordered that the
depositions of plaintiffs take place on dates certain, and that defense counsel
try to obtain a date for defendant’s PMK to take place prior to April
2025.  Counsel was ordered to meet and
confer and to file a joint report as to the discovery requests that remain in
dispute.  
            On November 7, 2024, counsel filed a
joint status report.
DISCUSSION and RULING
            The
joint status report filed on November 7, 2024 identified eight requests still
at issue in plaintiff’s request for production of documents:  Nos. 3, 7, 9, 11, 13, 21, 30, and 31.
The Court
rules as follows:
            No.
3 - pre-delivery inspection reports
No. 7 - pre
and post litigation Xentry Diagnostic Trouble Code Reports generated from
subject vehicle
No. 9 -
unredacted Xentry Tip Case No. 245497135 opened on subject vehicle)
No. 21 -
Mercedes-Benz’s training materials for calculating repurchase
As to No.
3, defendant states that it is still in the process of performing a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry and to the extent responsive documents are
identified, defendant will comply by producing all non-privileged documents in
its possession, custody, or control.  As
to Nos. 7 and 9, defendant states that it will comply with requests by
producing all non-privileged documents (after the completion of plaintiffs’
depositions).  As to No. 21, defendant
states that it has already produced non-privileged documents.
Plaintiffs’
position is that defendant’s responses contain the “same deficient partial
statements of compliance which fail to identify with particularity which
document/s it is withholding” and that defendant’s responses “yield the same
undefined universe as to what documents are being produced, and which documents
are being withheld on the basis of an objection.”
Defendant
made objections based on privilege.
The Court
orders that defendant serve a privilege log.
 
            No.
11 - summary report of amounts paid for warranty repairs
Defendant
states that “it is not clear” what documents that the request seeks, but that
to the extent it understands what documents are responsive, it has fully
complied by producing all non-privileged documents in its possession, custody,
or control.
The Court
orders that defendant serve a privilege log.
 
            No.
13 - Salesforce documents encompassing communications between Mercedes-Benz
and/or any third parties responsible for operating Mercedes-Benz’s customer
hotline, or which Mercedes-Benz has legal “control” over
Defendant
states that it has conducted a diligent search and has not identified any
responsive documents.
The Court
finds that defendant’s response is sufficient.
 
            Nos.
30-31 – federally mandated “Customer Complaint” and “Field Service Action”
Excel or XML data submissions that Mercedes-Benz uploaded onto its “NHTSA Early
Warning Reporting Manufacturer Account,” which encompass the same powertrain
and electrical defects in the subject vehicle as those found in vehicles of the
same year, make, and model.  
Defendant
states that any responsive documents are publicly and/or equally available to
plaintiff, it is not aware of any recalls with regard to the subject vehicle,
and it is not entirely clear as to what documents these requests seek.
The joint
status report does not provide plaintiffs’ position as to Nos. 30 and 31.  In any event, whether the documents are
equally available to plaintiffs is not a valid ground for failing to produce
responsive documents.
The Court
orders that defendant serve responsive documents to Nos. 30 and 31.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED IN PART.  
            The
Court orders that defendant serve a privilege log with respect to plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 3, 7, 9, 11, and 21 within twenty
days.
            The
Court orders that defendant produce responsive documents to Nos. 30 and 31
within twenty days.
            The
motion is DENIED as to No. 13.
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling.