  Case Number:  21STCV29882    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  74 Darryl Lyons
v. Transdev Services, Inc., et al.
Defendants Transdev Services, Inc.,
Transdev North America, Inc., and Timothy Grensavitch’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, for Summary Adjudication 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Motion
for summary judgment filed by Defendants Transdev Services, Inc.,
Transdev North America, Inc., and Timothy Grensavitch on March 30, 2023 is DENIED. 
 
Summary adjudication is GRANTED for
Timothy Grensavitch for the first cause of action for discrimination; third cause of
action for FEHA retaliation; fourth cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment, retaliation or discrimination; fifth cause of action for Labor Code
retaliation; and sixth cause of action for wrongful termination.  Summary adjudication is DENIED for Timothy
Grensavitch for the second cause of action for harassment;
seventh cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 43; and eighth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
BACKGROUND 
This action arises from an employment
dispute.  Transdev Services, Inc.
(“Transdev”) and its parent company Transdev North America, Inc. (“TNAI”) have
a contract with Foothill Transit, a government funded public transit agency
that provides bus services to Southern Californians.  (Complaint, ¶ 1.)  Darryl
Lyons (“Plaintiff”) worked for Transdev and TNAI and its predecessor at
Transdev’s Arcadia facility as a bus operator and dispatcher from 2005 until he
was terminated from his employment in 2021. 
(Complaint, ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff alleges two individuals
harassed him because of his race: William Jackson (“Jackson”), Foothill
Arcadia’s former General Manager, now deceased, and Timothy Grensavitch
(“Grensavitch”), Foothill Arcadias’ Operations Manager.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 1-2, 7-8, 22.)  
On August 12, 2021, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Transdev, TNAI, Grensavitch, and estate of
Jackson.  The complaint asserts eight
causes of action for: (1) Race Discrimination [Gov. Code § 12940(a)]; (2)
Racial Harassment [Gov. Code § 12940(j)]; (3) Retaliation [Gov. Code §
12940(h)]; (4) Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or Retaliation
[Gov. Code § 12940(k)]; (5) Retaliation [Lab. Code § 1102.5]; (6) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (7) Violations of Civ. Code § 43;
and (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  Defendants Transdev, TNAI, and Grensavitch
(collectively “Defendants”) move for summary adjudication and summary judgment.
All evidentiary objections are preserved.
 
First
Cause of Action for Race Discrimination [Gov. Code § 12940(a)]
 
To
establish a prima facie case of discrimination, the plaintiff must show that
(1) the employee is a member of a protected class; (2) the employee was
qualified for the position sought or performing competently in the position
held; (3) the employee suffered an adverse employment action; and (4) some
other circumstance suggests a discriminatory motive.  (See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973)
411 U.S. 792, 802.)  To challenge an
employment discrimination claim on summary judgment, an employer must either
show that one or more of the prima facie elements is lacking, or must offer a
legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  (See Caldwell v. Paramount Unified Sch.
Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189.)¿ If the employer produces a legitimate
reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption of discrimination
“drops out of the picture,” and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove
that the claimed legitimate reason is merely a pretext.  (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th
1028, 1042.)¿  
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot
prevail on his first cause of action for race discrimination because (1)
Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of discrimination; (2) Transdev
has a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for Plaintiff’s termination; and (3)
Plaintiff cannot establish that race was the true motivation for his
termination.  
The court finds that Defendants have met
their initial burden of showing that they have legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reasons for Plaintiff’s termination. 
According to Defendant’s evidence, Transdev terminated Plaintiff for
misconduct and policy violation.  (UMF
Nos. 119-123.)  Specifically, following
an investigation, Transdev terminated Plaintiff for insubordination,
retaliatory actions against a coworker, and violations of Transdev’s
policies.  (UMF No. 121.)
Therefore, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue exists regarding his race
discrimination claim.  Here, Plaintiff
shows that a triable issue exists regarding his race discrimination claim for
which the purported reasons for his termination were pretextual by submitting
evidence that the supervisor involved in the decision to terminate Plaintiff,
Grensavitch, harbored racial animus against Plaintiff. (UMF Nos. 32, 36, 50;
Plaintiff’s additional UMF Nos. 63-64, 71-73, 75.). Summary adjudication of the
first cause of action for race discrimination is denied. 
Second
Cause of Action for Racial Harassment [Gov. Code § 12940(j)]
 
To establish a prima facie case of harassment, a plaintiff must prove
that (1) he was subjected to offensive comments or abusive conduct; (2) the
harassment was based on a protected status; and (3) the conduct was
sufficiently severe or pervasive as to create an objectively and subjectively
abusive working environment. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hosp.,
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 614.) 
“[O]ccasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial” acts are not enough to
alter the conditions of employment and create a hostile environment. (Aguilar
v. Avis Rent A Car Sys., Inc., (1999) 21 Cal.App.4th 121, 130-31.)  To meet the “severe or pervasive” standard
for harassment, Plaintiff must demonstrate that the workplace was “permeated
with discriminatory intimidation, ridicule and insult that is sufficiently
severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of his employment and create an
abusive working environment.”  (Mokler
v. County of Orange, (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 121, 145.)  The environment must be both objectively and
subjectively offensive. (Harris v. Forklift Sys., Inc., (1993) 510 U.S.
17, 21-22.) 
Plaintiff alleges two individuals harassed
him because of his race: Jackson, Foothill Arcadia’s former General Manager,
now deceased, and Grensavitch, Foothill Arcadia’s former Operations
Manager.  
i.               
Timeliness is a Triable Issue
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s racial
harassment claim is time-barred as to Jackson because Plaintiff did not file
his administrative and civil complaints against Jackson until 2021, even though
Plaintiff admitted that Jackson harassed Plaintiff in 2016. In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Jackson’s pre-2019 (2015 to 2018) racial harassment is actionable because
of the continuing violations doctrine. Under the continuing violations
doctrine, “a FEHA complaint is timely if discriminatory practices occurring
outside the limitations period continued into that period.” (Dominguez v.
Washington Mutual Bank (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th at p. 721.) Here, the court
finds Plaintiff shows triable issues exist whether alleged unlawful conduct
before 2019 is barred by the three-year FEHA statute of limitations or is
actionable because of the continuing violations doctrine. As to the first
prong, the court finds that evidence raises a triable issue regarding whether
conduct within the limitations period and conduct outside the limitations
period is sufficiently similar.  (UMF
Nos. 63-64, 71-73, 75.)  As to the second
prong, the court finds that evidence raises a triable issue of whether there is
a reasonable frequency of the alleged unlawful conduct. (UMF Nos. 63-64, 71-73,
75.)  Finally, as to the third prong, the
court finds that evidence raises a triable issue regarding whether conduct
before 2019, had reached a degree of permanence. (UMF Nos. 112-114.)
ii.             
Subjectively Harassing is a Triable Issue
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s racial harassment claim fails as to Grensavitch because 
the
alleged harassment occurred during a social outing rather than in the work
environment; Plaintiff was not actually offended by Grensavitch’s alleged
conduct as evidenced by their continued relationship and Plaintiff’s own
standup comedy-routine.  (UMF Nos. 60,
75-76.)  The court finds that Defendants
have carried their prima facie initial burden of showing the allegedly racial
harassment was not subjectively hostile or abusive to Plaintiff.
The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to
show that a triable issue exists regarding his racial harassment claim.
Plaintiff successfully does so. Plaintiff presents evidence that he was not
friends with his supervisor Grensavitch and that Grensavitch did not act
friendly because he used the N-word and called Plaintiff a “bitch” on several
occasions inside Transdev’s dispatch office from 2019 through 2021; and, he
told Plaintiff that “[w]hites were the superior race” at Grensavitch’s
apartment and the dispatch office.  (UMF
No. 185.)  Further, while Plaintiff does
not dispute that he made jokes in a stand-up comedy routine, Plaintiff disputes
that he believes that it is okay for non-black people to use the word N-word.
(UMF No. 76.) Whether the alleged conduct was subjectively harassing is for the
jury to decide. Accordingly, the request for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for racial harassment is denied. 
 
Third
Cause of Action for Retaliation [Gov. Code § 12940(h)] & Fifth Cause of
Action for Retaliation [Lab. Code § 1102.5]
 
 “California cases hold that in order to establish a
prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or
she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee
to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” 
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1042.) 
When it comes to retaliation cases under FEHA, “‘[t]he
central issue is and should remain whether the evidence as a whole
supports a reasoned inference that the challenged action was the product of
discriminatory or retaliatory animus.’” 
(Light v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 75, 94.)  “‘The employer’s
mere articulation of a legitimate reason for the action cannot answer this
question; it can only dispel the presumption of improper motive that would
otherwise entitle the employee to a judgment in his favor.’” (Ibid.) 
“[C]iting a legitimate reason for the challenged action
will entitle the employer to summary judgment only when the employee’s showing,
while sufficient to invoke the presumption, is too weak to sustain a reasoned
inference in the employee’s favor. That, and not ‘pretext,’ must be the focus
of the judicial inquiry.” [Citations.]’” 
(Ibid. [emphasis removed].) “‘[S]ummary judgment should not be
granted unless the evidence cannot support any reasonable inference for
plaintiff.’ [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  
“Section 1102.5 provides whistleblower protections to
employees who disclose wrongdoing to authorities.”  (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 709). 
“An employee injured by prohibited retaliation may file a private suit
for damages.” (Ibid.)  
Under Section 1102.5, the substantive standard and burdens
of proof in section 1102.6 apply. 
“First, it must be ‘demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence’
that the employee’s protected whistleblowing was a ‘contributing factor’ to an
adverse employment action. . . . Then, once the employee has made that
necessary threshold showing, the employer bears ‘the burden of proof to
demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence’ that the alleged adverse
employment action would have occurred ‘for legitimate, independent reasons’
even if the employee had not engaged in protected whistleblowing
activities.”  (Lawson, supra, 12
Cal.5th at p. 712 [finding the McDonnell Douglas framework was not a “method of
proof well suited to litigation under the section 1102.6 framework” as it
creates complications in “mixed motive” cases].)  
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s retaliation claims fail because Plaintiff cannot
establish that his termination was because of his alleged protected
activity.  In support, Defendants provide
evidence that Transdev knew that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity in
February 2016 when Plaintiff dual-filed a charge of discrimination with the
California Department of Fair Employment & Housing and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission, alleging race, age, and disability discrimination, but did
not terminate Plaintiff until five years later on April 1, 2021, making the
events too far separated in time.  (UMF
Nos. 9, 26.)  Defendants also provide
evidence that at the time of Plaintiff’s termination in April 2021, Transdev
did not know about Plaintiff’s February 2021 protected activity where Plaintiff
gave a statement under oath in support of a terminated bus operator, Richard
Conell, in which he alleged racist conduct by Jackson and Grensavitch.  (UMF Nos. 128-130.)  However, the court finds that Plaintiff has
met his burden of showing a triable issue exists whether Transdev knew that
Plaintiff had testified in support of terminated bus operator Conell because
Plaintiff spoke about testifying on Conell’s behalf “in the dispatch office in
front of dispatchers and within earshot of drivers.”  (UMF No. 17.) 
Accordingly, summary adjudication of the third cause of action for
retaliation under FEHA and fifth cause of action for retaliation under Labor
Code Section 1102.5 is
denied. 
 
Fourth
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation [Gov. Code § 12940(k)]
 
Because the court has finds triable issues exist regarding
whether Defendants harassed Plaintiff based on race within the meaning of FEHA,
summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for failure to prevent is
denied.   
 
Sixth
Cause of Action for Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the
employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.”  (Yau v.
Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154.)  
The sixth cause of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy is denied for the same reasons the first cause of
action for race discrimination is denied. 
 
Seventh
Cause of Action for Violations of Civ. Code § 43
 
“Besides the personal rights mentioned or recognized in the
Government Code, every person has, subject to the qualifications and
restrictions provided by law, the right of protection from bodily restraint or
harm, from personal insult, from defamation, and from injury to his personal
relations.”  (Civ. Code, § 43.) 
Defendants argue that it is unclear what supports
Plaintiff’s Section 43 claim, and at best it is derivative of Plaintiff’s
discrimination and harassment causes of action. 
Plaintiff’s Section 43 claim may be supported by Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for harassment as the court has found that Plaintiff has
demonstrated a triable issue of material fact exists as to that claim. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication of the seventh cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 43 is denied. 
 
Eighth
Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of [IIED]
are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant's outrageous conduct.”  (Cervantez
v. J. C. Penney Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593. 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred
under California’s workers’ compensation exclusivity rule.  The court disagrees.  (Cf. Fretland v. County of Humboldt (1999)
69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492 [“work-related injury discrimination [and harassment
under FEHA] is not a normal risk of the compensation bargain. [Citation.] Thus,
[the plaintiff’s emotional distress claims are not barred by the exclusivity
rule to the extent they [sought] emotional distress damages for the alleged
work-related injury discrimination. Summary judgment on the eighth and ninth
causes of action should not have been granted”].)
Next, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish an essential
element to his IIED claim.  Namely,
Plaintiff’s own testimony confirmed he has not suffered severe or extreme
emotional distress as Plaintiff testified that he loved his job, never wanted
to leave, and if he had not been terminated, he would have stayed at Transdev
through retirement, and he wants to return. 
(UMF No. 125.)  
The court finds that Defendants have carried their initial burden.  The court also finds that Plaintiff has shown
the existence of one or more triable issues of material fact regarding each
element of his IIED claims.  (UMF Nos.
63-64, Plaintiff’s additional UMF Nos. 117-118.) 
Accordingly, summary adjudication of the eighth cause of action for IIED
is denied. 
 
Transdev
North America, Inc.’s Status as
Plaintiff’s Employer
            The
court does not decide this issue for purposes of summary adjudication because
it is a sub-issue, not a cause of action, affirmative defense, issue of duty,
or category of damages. The court additionally does not decide this issue for
purposes of summary judgment because it does not dispose of the entire
case because plaintiff alleges causes of action that do not require that the
defendant be plaintiff’s employer.
 
Whether Plaintiff’s Claims Against Grensavitch Fail
            Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s claims against Grensavitch fail because supervisors are not subject
to liability for discrimination, retaliation, wrongful termination, and failure
to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation. 
            In opposition, Plaintiff states, “[w]hile
Plaintiff is pursuing three claims (harassment, Section 43, and IIED) against
Grensavitch, Plaintiff will not pursue the other claims pleaded against
Grensavitch in the Complaint.” (Opposition, p. 20, fn. 4.) Summary
adjudication is therefore appropriate on those other claims against
Grensavitch: first cause of action for discrimination; third cause of action
for FEHA retaliation; fourth cause of action for failure to prevent harassment,
retaliation or discrimination; fifth cause of action for Labor Code
retaliation; and sixth cause of action for wrongful termination.  Summary adjudication is denied as to
Plaintiff’s harassment, Section 43, and IIED claims against Grensavitch. 
 
Whether Plaintiff’s Punitive Damages Claim Fail 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
punitive damages claim fails based on its contention that Plaintiff cannot show
Defendant’s conduct was malicious or oppressive.  But, in light of the court’s finding that
triable issues of material fact exist as to the harassment and failure to
prevent harassment claims, the court also finds that triable issues of material
fact exist as to whether Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages based on the
same underlying conduct.  
Accordingly, summary adjudication is
denied as to the issue of punitive damages. 
 
CONCLUSION 
Motion
for summary judgment filed by Defendants Transdev Services, Inc.,
Transdev North America, Inc., and Timothy Grensavitch on March 30, 2023 is denied. 
 
Summary adjudication is granted for
Timothy Grensavitch for the first cause of action for discrimination; third cause of
action for FEHA retaliation; fourth cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment, retaliation or discrimination; fifth cause of action for Labor Code
retaliation; and sixth cause of action for wrongful termination.  Summary adjudication is denied for Timothy
Grensavitch for the second cause of action for harassment;
seventh cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 43; and eighth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Defendants shall give notice.