 Case Number:  22STCV08316    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT 
Hearing Date: 5/29/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV08316 HEDIYEH FETANAT vs
KAREN CHRISTENBERRY STIMMING, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendants Karen Stimming and
William Stimming
Responding Party: Defendant Wendy West
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT IS
GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard 
 
In an action involving two or more
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors, when one tortfeasor or obligor enters into a
settlement with the plaintiff, the other tortfeasors or obligors are entitled
to a hearing on the issue of whether the settlement was entered into in good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a).) Where a plaintiff settles with one of several
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors without releasing the others, a determination
of “good faith” discharges the settling defendant from liability to the other
defendants for equitable contribution or comparative indemnity. (CCP §
877(a)-(b).) The amount paid by the settling defendant reduces the claim
against the others (CCP § 877(a)), but a risk of prejudice remains because an
unreasonably low settlement (i.e., with the “most culpable” tortfeasor) exposes
the remaining defendants to a judgment exceeding their fair share of the
liability. (See Bay Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.
3d 1012, 1019-1020.)
¿
There is no precise yardstick for
measuring the “good faith” of a settlement with one of several tortfeasors, but
it must harmonize the public policy favoring settlements with the competing
public policy favoring equitable sharing of costs among tortfeasors. (See Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)
 
“A more appropriate definition of
‘good faith,’ in keeping with the policies of American Motorcycle and
the statute, would enable the trial court to inquire, among other things,
whether the amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the
settling tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the
plaintiff's injuries. This is not to say that bad faith is ‘established by a
showing that a settling defendant paid less than his theoretical proportionate
or fair share.’ [Citation.] Such a rule would unduly discourage settlements.
‘For the damages are often speculative, and the probability of legal liability
therefor is often uncertain or remote. And even where the claimant's damages
are obviously great, and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately
low settlement figure is often reasonable in the case of a relatively
insolvent, and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’ [Citation.]
Moreover, such a rule would tend to convert the pretrial settlement approval
procedure into a full scale mini trial [citation].
 
But these considerations do not
lead to the conclusion that the amount of the settlement is irrelevant in
determining good faith. Rather, the intent and policies underlying section
877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant
considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of
settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.]
¿ 
Finally, practical considerations
obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement. ‘[A] defendant's settlement figure must
not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be.’
[Citation.] The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of
proof on that issue (§877.6(d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can,
that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these
factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt,
Inc., 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)
 
Discussion
On March 8, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the present motor accident case alleging that Defendants Karen Stimming
and William Stimming rear-ended Co-Defendant Wendy West. As a result of this
impact, Co-Defendant West was pushed into the rear of Plaintiff’s car. The
Stimming Defendants entered into a settlement with Plaintiff for $24,999.99 and
moved the Court for a determination of good faith settlement. Co-Defendant West
filed an opposition stating that the Stimming Defendants are at least 80
percent liable for the accident, and that the settlement for $24,999.99 is
grossly disproportionate.
The Stimming Defendants have
addressed all the Tech-Bilt factors in their moving papers. The main
contention between the Defendants is the estimated value of the case.  Given that the Stimming Defendants caused the
accident and initiated the series of rear-end collisions, Defendant West
estimates the Stimming Defendants’ portion of liability to be at least 80%,
which the court finds reasonable. West estimates the value of the case to be
$149,331.54 based on Plaintiff’s Supplemental Discovery Responses from January
31, 2024, reflecting the amount of medical expenses incurred. (Opp. at p. 5.)
The Stimming Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s medical expenses are excessive and unnecessary. Specifically,
Plaintiff had been under the care of Dr. Lawrence Miller for a six-month period
following the accident. Dr. Miller testified recently at deposition that
Plaintiff did not need any epidural injections and, since she was resolved from
pain, he had released her from his care on January 19, 2022.  A few months later, Plaintiff went to a
different doctor who performed multiple injections, particularly to the low
back, a body part about which she had never complained to Dr. Miller. Moreover,
there is a question of whether the collision at less than 5 mph would cause
Plaintiff to incur spinal disc injuries. Therefore, the Stimming Defendants
value the case at $15,000 to $25,000. In her opposition, Defendant West
provided no countervailing argument against the Stimming Defendants' claim that
Plaintiff’s medical specials are excessive.
“The damages
sought are often speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefore
is often uncertain or remote. A settlor should pay less in settlement than he
would if found liable at trial" (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
499; Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 874
["In order to encourage settlements, it is quite proper for a settling
defendant to pay less than his proportional share."]). In Horton v. Superior Court (1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 727, the court stated: "In determining a settling defendant's
equitable proportionate share of liability, the judge does not look to the
plaintiff's claim for damages; rather the judge tries to determine a
"rough approximation" of what the plaintiff would actually recover if
the case should go to trial. This amount is then discounted for settlement
purposes based on the savings in trial time, defense costs, attorneys' fees and
the avoidance of the risk inherent in every trial of a verdict or judgment
larger than expected.
Based on the arguments and evidence presented by both sides, the
Court the case value here to be in a range of $25,000 to $100,000.  This range must be discounted for settlement
purposes, taking into account the savings in trial time, defense costs,
attorneys' fees, and the avoidance of the risk inherent in every trial of a verdict
or judgment larger than expected. Given these considerations, the settlement of
$24,999.99 is within the ballpark and not grossly disproportionate.
Courts have
found settlements to be in good faith with significantly lower settlement to
value ratio than the present case. See, e.g., Bay Development, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1012, 1028 (finding a $30,000 settlement
reasonable in a litigation involving a claim for $1 million in damages); Cahill
v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 969-970
($25,000 settlement on a $40 million estimated value.); Horton v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 727 (value of case estimated at $320,000; judge determined the case was worth less than $150,000 and a
$50,000 settlement was not "out of the ballpark).
For the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that
the Stimming Defendants’ settlement was made in good faith and grants the
Motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 