 Case Number:  23STCV38973    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing Date: 5/30/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV38973 KYLE AARON TESTA vs
LYFT, INC 
Moving Party: Defendant Lyft 
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Tentative Ruling: DEMURRER TO NEGLIGENCT
HIRING SUSTAINED; COURT TO HEAR ARGUMENT RE NEGLIGENCE CAUSE OF ACTION 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Kyle Testa, while a passenger
in a Lyft vehicle, was allegedly assaulted by the driver, Robert Doe. Testa is
suing Robert Doe for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional
distress (IIED), and negligence. In addition, Testa has brought claims against
Lyft for general negligence and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention.
On February 29, 2024, the Court sustained Lyft's demurrer as to Plaintiff's
general negligence and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention causes of
action against Lyft, and allowed Plaintiff leave to file a First Amended
Complaint (FAC). Plaintiff filed a FAC, and Lyft now again demurs, arguing that
the FAC suffers from the same defects as the original complaint and fails to
allege how Lyft was aware or should have known that hiring Defendant Robert Doe
created a particular risk and arguing that the negligence cause of action is
uncertain.
 
Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the
pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to
apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible
in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[internal citations omitted].)
 
        A demurrer to a pleading lies where the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd.
(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint
is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under
modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) As a result, a special demurrer for
uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate sufficient facts in
the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing in the allegations
already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 822,
825.) Where complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise
defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a special
demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see also Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“[a] special demurrer [for
uncertainty] should be overruled where the allegations of the complaint are
sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to
meet”].)
 
Preliminary Issue
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff had only 10 days to file the First Amended Complaint
pursuant to Cal. R. Ct. § 3.1320(g). Plaintiff contends that they were orally
advised at the hearing of the first demurrer to file within 30 days, and
therefore calendared the dates accordingly.  The minute order does not reflect that the
court granted 30 days to file a First Amended Complaint.  In any event, the Court finds that to the
extent the amended filing was late, it was an excusable mistake on the part of
Plaintiff and, adhering to the principle of liberal amendments and resolving
cases on their merits, will excuse Plaintiff's alleged late filing. Thus,
Defendant’s motion to strike FAC on the basis that the FAC was served late is
overruled.
Discussion
The Court previously granted
the demurrer to the initial complaint on the grounds that it pled legal conclusions,
and the allegations did not specifically relate to Defendant Robert Doe’s
alleged assault on Plaintiff. The Court noted that if Plaintiff could
demonstrate that Lyft knew or should have known about this specific driver's
risk of danger and neglected to take any action, it would sufficiently show
that Lyft was a substantial factor in Plaintiff's injuries.
The First Amended
Complaint (FAC) improves upon the initial complaint in that new allegations are
not legal conclusions.  Rather, they appear
to be ultimate facts and thus appropriately pled.  For example, Plaintiff has alleged new
pertinent facts as follows:
Defendant LYFT breached its duty of
care to Plaintiff by failing to implement adequate measures for vetting its
drivers and by not notifying its passengers upon becoming aware of any driver's
hazardous tendencies. Such dereliction of duty by Defendant LYFT was a
substantial factor in causing harm to Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 38.)
Defendant LYFT's breach of its duty
to enact proper screening protocols for its drivers allowed Defendant ROBERT
DOE, a driver with dangerous inclinations, to be placed in a situation where he
could, and did, assault Plaintiff. This breach of duty by Defendant LYFT
directly caused the circumstances leading to Plaintiff’s harm. (FAC ¶ 39.)
1.   Negligent Hiring
While Plaintiff has addressed
the issue relating to pleading conclusions of law, he has not addressed the
issue that the Court noted in granting the first demurrer: he has not made allegations
to demonstrate that Lyft knew or should have known about Robert Doe’s risk of
danger and neglected to take any action to prevent Doe’s hiring.  The apparent effort to remedy this with a reference
to Robert Doe having “dangerous inclinations” is vague and uncertain.  
2.   Negligence
The Court will discuss
the negligence cause of action with the parties.  