 Case Number:  21STCV44410    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/30/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV44410 MARCO CHAVIRA vs
CALIFORNIA LANDMARK GROUP, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Robles Glass & Supplies
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED.
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 128.5 provides that “[a] trial court may order a
party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics,
made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5(a).) “‘Actions or tactics’ include,
but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and
service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading.”
(Id., § 128.5(b)(1).) “‘Frivolous’ means totally and completely without
merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.” (Id.,
§ 128.5(b)(2).)
 
        “‘A bad faith action or tactic is considered ‘frivolous’ if it is
‘totally and completely without merit’ or instituted ‘for the sole purpose of
harassing an opposing party.’’” (In re Marriage of Sahafzadeh-Taeb &
Taeb (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 124, 135 (quoting Levy v. Blum (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 625, 635).) “‘Whether an action is frivolous is governed by an
objective standard: any reasonable attorney would agree it is totally and
completely without merit.’” (Id. (quoting Levy, supra, 92
Cal.App.4th at 635).) “‘There must also be a showing of an improper
purpose, i.e., subjective bad faith on the party of the attorney or party to be
sanctioned.’” (Id. (quoting Levy, supra, 92 Cal.App.4th at
635).) “‘Section 128.5 requires much more than a party acting with ‘no
good reason’ to justify an award of sanctions.’” (Id. at 136 (quoting Levy,
supra, 92 Cal.App.4th at 635-36).) “‘There must be a showing not only of a
meritless or frivolous action or tactic, but also of bad faith.’” (Id.
(quoting Levy, supra, 92 Cal.App.4th at 635-36).)
 
Discussion
 
The present case involves a window blind that was allegedly
negligently installed and subsequently fell on Plaintiff’s head. On January 12,
2024, Defendant Robles Glass & Supplies filed a motion for summary
judgment. Subsequently, on January 17, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to
continue the trial so that its summary judgment could be heard before the trial
date. On February 29, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to continue
the trial and advanced Defendant’s motion for summary judgment to April 16,
2024, to ensure it could be heard prior to the trial date. On April 16, 2024,
the Court heard Defendant’s motion for summary judgment and denied summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action. The other causes of
actions were denied as moot because Plaintiff in his opposition stated that he
agreed to dismiss them. 
 
Plaintiff now requests the Court to sanction Defendant in the
amount of $22,560 for filing a frivolous motion for summary judgment and motion
to continue the trial. The Court did not find Defendant’s motions to be
frivolous. First, Defendant met its initial burden in the motion for summary
judgment, showing that it was not totally and completely without merit. Second,
Defendant's motion to continue the trial so its motion for summary judgment
could be heard was granted, and the summary judgment was advanced to April 16,
2024. Third, Defendant's decision to wait 1.5 years to file the motion for
summary judgment is understandable as it needs sufficient time for conducting
discovery, especially since Plaintiff’s seven other causes of action have not
been dismissed prior to Defendant filing the motion for summary judgment. The
court does not find Defendant’s motion for summary judgment and motion to
continue trial to be frivolous or filed in bad faith. Thus, the present motion
is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.