 Case Number:  22STCV29123    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, reply, and joinder papers, the Court rules  as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  September 7, 2022, Plaintiff Vita Carter (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Space Exploration Technologies Corp., Ryan Christopher Lillejohn,  and Does 1-100 for negligence and negligence per se.  On  October 10, 2022, Defendant Space Exploration Technologies Corp. dba SpaceX  (“SpaceX”) filed an answer.  On  January 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants  SpaceX, Ryan Christopher Littlejohn (“Littlejohn”), and Does 1-100 for  negligence and negligence per se.  On  June 28, 2023, SpaceX filed an answer to the first amended complaint.  On September  19, 2023, Littlejohn filed an answer.  On  October 18, 2023, Littlejohn filed an answer to the first amended complaint.  On  February 28, 2024, SpaceX filed an amended answer.  On  March 20, 2024, SpaceX filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication, along with a separate statement and  supporting papers.  The motion was set  for hearing on September 20, 2024.  On  August 30, 2024, Littlejohn filed a joinder to SpaceX’s motion along with a  separate statement.  On October 30, 2024,  the Court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the hearing under  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).  On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition to SpaceX’s and Littlejohn’s motions.  On November 21, 2024, SpaceX and Littlejohn filed  a reply. The Court continued the hearing to January 13, 2025.   Trial  is scheduled for May 12, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  SpaceX asks the Court to grant summary  judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. Littlejohn asks to join SpaceX's motion. Plaintiff asks the Court to deny SpaceX's motion.  SPACEX’S REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE            Granted.  PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE            Granted.  SPACEX’S EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS            Sustained:    I.1, I.2          Overruled:    II.1,  II.2 LEGAL STANDARD A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87  Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)  25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment  bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the  nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of  production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a  burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence  of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at  p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least  one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must  ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,  admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which  judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but  need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the  plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the  plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as  through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect  that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.  at p. 855, emphasis omitted.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v.  Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and inferences  in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at  p. 843.)  B.   Workers’ compensation exclusivity  “Labor  Code section 3600, subdivision (a), provides that, subject to certain  particular exceptions and conditions, workers' compensation liability, ‘in lieu  of any other liability whatsoever’ will exist ‘against an employer for any  injury sustained by his or her employees arising out of and in the course of  the employment.’”  (Fermino v. Fedco,  Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 701, 708, fn. omitted.)  “[T]he basis for the exclusivity rule in  workers' compensation law is the ‘presumed “compensation bargain,” pursuant to  which the employer assumes liability for industrial personal injury or death  without regard to fault in exchange for limitations on the amount of that  liability. The employee is afforded relatively swift and certain payment of  benefits to cure or relieve the effects of industrial injury without having to  prove fault but, in exchange, gives up the wider range of damages potentially  available in tort.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Shoemaker v. Myers (1990)  52 Cal.3d 1, 16.) “When  a complaint affirmatively alleges facts indicating coverage by Workers’  Compensation laws but fails to state additional facts negating the application  of the exclusive remedy rule, no civil action will lie and the complaint is  subject to a general demurrer . . . . This pleading requirement is  jurisdictionally-based; if the complaint indicates that the action is within  the scope of the Workers’ Compensation law, the superior court has no  jurisdiction over it unless additional allegations indicate that an exception  to the exclusive remedy rule applies.” (Hughes v. Western MacArthur Co.  (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 951, 957.)  C.   Special employment relationship  “ ‘Although  the terms of a contract may specify that a special employer retains the right  to control the details of an individual’s work or purports to establish an  employment relationship, “the terminology used in an agreement is not  conclusive ... even in the absence of fraud or mistake.” ’ ”  (Kowalski v. Shell Oil Co. (1979) 23  Cal.3d 168, 176 (Kowalski).)  “ ‘The  contract cannot affect the true relationship of the parties to it. Nor can it  place an employee in a different position from that which he actually held.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “Since  a contract is not conclusive evidence of the existence of the right to control,  the courts have looked to a number of factors as evidentiary indicia of the  existence of a special employment relationship."  (Kowalski, supra, 23 Cal.3d at p. 176.) “ ‘The paramount  consideration appears to be whether the alleged special employer exercises  control over the details of [an employee’s] work. Such control strongly  supports the inference that a special employment exists.’ ”  (Ibid.) “However, ‘[t]he fact that  instructions are given as to the result to be achieved does not require the  conclusion that a special employment relationship exists.’ ”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Evidence  that the alleged special employer has the power to discharge a worker “is  strong evidence of the existence of a special employment relationship.” (Kowalski,  supra, 23 Cal.3d at p. 177, fn. omitted.)  “The payment of wages is not, however,  determinative.”  (Ibid.)  Other factors to be taken into consideration  are “ ‘the nature of the services, whether skilled or unskilled, whether the  work is part of the employer’s regular business, the duration of the employment  period, ... and who supplies the work tools.’ ” (Ibid.) “Evidence that  (1) the employee provides unskilled labor, (2) the work he performs is part of  the employer’s regular business, (3) the employment period is lengthy, and (4)  the employer provides the tools and equipment used, tends to indicate the  existence of special employment.  Conversely, evidence to the contrary negates  existence of a special employment relationship.”  (Ibid.)  “In  addition, consideration must be given to whether the worker consented to the  employment relationship, either expressly or impliedly, and to whether the  parties believed they were creating the employer-employee relationship.”  (Kowalski, supra, 23 Cal.3d at  p. 178, fn. omitted.)  D.   Labor Code sections 3706 and 3708  Labor  Code section 3602 provides in part:  “(a) Where the conditions of compensation set forth in  Section 3600 concur, the right to recover compensation is, except as  specifically provided in this section and Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and  exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her dependents against the employer.  The fact that either the employee or the employer also occupied another or dual  capacity prior to, or at the time of, the employee’s industrial injury shall  not permit the employee or his or her dependents to bring an action at law for  damages against the employer.  * * *  “(d) (1) For the purposes of this division, including  Sections 3700 and 3706, an employer may secure the payment of compensation on  employees provided to it by agreement by another employer by entering into a  valid and enforceable agreement with that other employer under which the other  employer agrees to obtain, and has, in fact, obtained workers’ compensation  coverage for those employees. In those cases, both employers shall be  considered to have secured the payment of compensation within the meaning of this  section and Sections 3700 and 3706 if there is a valid and enforceable  agreement between the employers to obtain that coverage, and that coverage, as  specified in subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 3700, has been in fact obtained,  and the coverage remains in effect for the duration of the employment providing  legally sufficient coverage to the employee or employees who form the subject  matter of the coverage. That agreement shall not be  made for the purpose of avoiding an employer’s appropriate experience rating as  defined in subdivision (c) of Section 11730 of the Insurance Code.”  (Lab. Code, § 3602, subds.  (a), (d)(1).)  Insurance  Code section 11730, subdivision (c), provides:  “ ‘Experience rating’ means a rating procedure  utilizing past insurance experience of the individual policyholder to forecast  future losses by measuring the policyholder’s loss experience against the loss  experience of policyholders in the same classification to produce a prospective  premium credit, debit, or unity modification.”  (Ins. Code, § 11730, subd. (c).)  Labor  Code section 3706 provides:   “If any employer fails to secure the payment of  compensation, any injured employee or his dependents may bring an action at law  against such employer for damages, as if this division did not apply.”  (Lab. Code, § 3706.)            Labor Code section 3708 provides:          “In such action it is presumed that the injury to the  employee was a direct result and grew out of the negligence of the employer,  and the burden of proof is upon the employer, to rebut the presumption of  negligence. It is not a defense to the employer that the employee was guilty of  contributory negligence, or assumed the risk of the hazard complained of, or  that the injury was caused by the negligence of a fellow servant. No contract  or regulation shall restore to the employer any of the foregoing defenses.  “This section shall not apply to any employer of an  employee, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 3351, with respect to such  employee, but shall apply to employers of employees described in subdivision  (b) of Section 3715, with respect to such employees.”  (Lab. Code, § 3708.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The first amended complaint  The  first amended complaint alleges that on September 29, 2020, Littlejohn – while  in the course of his employment with SpaceX – attempted to make an unsafe  U-turn and collided into the front of Plaintiff’s vehicle, injuring Plaintiff  and damaging her vehicle.  B.   Undisputed facts  Plaintiff’s  verified responses to written discovery state that, at the time of the  accident, Plaintiff was acting as an agent/employee for Parking Company of  America aka PCAM, LLC (“PCA”), as a driver.  Under  a written agreement between SpaceX and PCA in effect on September 20, 2020 (the  day of the accident), PCA provided shuttling services for SpaceX and its  employees.  The agreement specified that  PCA was to maintain workers’ compensation insurance for the borrowed shuttle  drivers.  Plaintiff  had picked up a passenger (a SpaceX employee on the SpaceX campus) in front of  1 Rocket Road. Plaintiff was to drop off the passenger at the passenger’s work  station located on Lot 27 on the SpaceX campus.  Plaintiff  filed a workers’ compensation claim against PCA and received workers’  compensation benefits from PCA’s workers’ compensation insurance carrier,  Gallagher Bassett, from approximately December 2020 through August 2022. C.   Joinder  The  Court grants Littlejohn’s unopposed request to join SpaceX’s motion for summary  judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  D.   SpaceX has carried its initial burden on summary  judgment  SpaceX  contends that Plaintiff was its employee for workers’ compensation purposes under  the Transportation Agreement between PCA and SpaceX.  As a result, SpaceX argues, Plaintiff’s sole  remedy is workers’ compensation benefits and SpaceX is entitled to summary  judgment on Plaintiff’s claims.  To  support this contention, SpaceX points to evidence that Plaintiff was its “special  employee”: (1) The Transportation Agreement requires that PCA drivers drive  SpaceX-provided vehicles, on SpaceX’s campus, carrying SpaceX employees as  passengers, on the routes laid out by SpaceX, (2) Plaintiff was performing her  work using SpaceX’s vehicle at SpaceX’s worksite, (3) the Transportation  Agreement shows that there was an agreement, understanding, or meeting of the  minds between the original and special employer, (4) SpaceX provided  Plaintiff’s tools (the vehicle, fuel, vehicle maintenance), the worksite,  cargo, and routes, and (5) SpaceX was obligated to pay Plaintiff her normal  hourly rate, along with 150% of her normal hourly rate for overtime work or for  special events on short notice.  In  addition, SpaceX has presented evidence that it satisfied its statutory  obligation to obtain workers’ compensation insurance for Plaintiff.  The Transportation Agreement provided that  PCA would maintain workers’ compensation insurance for the borrowed PCA employees  and Plaintiff received workers’ compensation benefits from PCA’s workers’ compensation  insurer.  SpaceX  has carried its initial burden on summary judgment of showing that Plaintiff’s  sole remedy was workers’ compensation benefits.   The burden shifts to Plaintiff.  E.   Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact  Plaintiff  argues that SpaceX may not invoke the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule because  it “deliberately circumvented workers’ compensation coverage for Plaintiff by  exclusively employing PCA’s employees to undertake tasks at its facility.”  (Opposition p. 1.)  According to Plaintiff, SpaceX thereby  avoided the need to pay increased workers’ compensation benefits, creating a  presumption that it was negligent under Labor Code section 3708.  The argument lacks merit.  Plaintiff has presented no  evidence that SpaceX entered into the Transportation Agreement with PCA “for  the purpose of avoiding [SpaceX’s] appropriate experience rating as defined in  subdivision (c) of Section 11730 of the Insurance Code.”  (See Lab. Code, § 3602, subd. (d)(1).)  Therefore, Labor Code section 3708 does not apply.  Plaintiff  also argues that SpaceX cannot prevail on summary judgment because it failed to  produce the workers’ compensation policy covering PCA employees.  (Opposition p. 2.)  It is undisputed, however, that Plaintiff  received workers’ compensation benefits from PCA’s workers’ compensation carrier.  Therefore, SpaceX was not required to produce  PCA’s policy.  Last, Plaintiff argues that she was not SpaceX's special employee.  Plaintiff  testified at her deposition that she did not interview with SpaceX before she  was transferred to its campus, her paychecks and W-2 form came from PCA, and  she thought PCA employed her.  In addition, in a November 2024 declaration, Plaintiff stated:  ·       Plaintiff wore a shirt with a PCA logo until she  realized that uniforms were not mandatory ·       Plaintiff was required to contact PCA if she needed to  call in sick or request time off ·       Plaintiff never received any training from SpaceX  during her employment ·       Plaintiff’s PCA supervisors were solely responsible  for evaluating and reprimanding her work performance ·        Plaintiff was not  required to punch in my time or clock out when arriving to perform shuttle  services at SpaceX’s premises.   The  Court finds that Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact regarding her  status as a special employee.  Although  she received her paychecks and W-2 form from PCA, “[t]he payment of wages is  not . . . determinative.”  (Kowalski, supra, 23 Cal.3d at p. 177, fn. omitted.)  Plaintiff's evidence does not raise a triable issue of fact concerning whether SpaceX controlled the details of Plaintiff’s work.  The  Court grants SpaceX’s motion for summary judgment, in which Littlejohn joins.  CONCLUSION            The Court GRANTS Defendant Ryan Christopher Lillejohn’s request for joinder  in Defendant Space Exploration Technologies Corp.’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Space Exploration Technologies Corp.’s motion for  summary judgment, in which Defendant Ryan Christopher Lillejohn has joined.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days. 