  Case Number:  20STCV42993    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jen bosworth

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
dwell management, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV42993




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   29, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiffs Jen Bosworth and Miles
Horton
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Defendants Dwell Management, LLC, and
Simone Shah, individually and as trustee of the Simone Shah Trust
Motion for Reconsideration
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this
motion.  No reply papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Jen Bosworth and Miles Horton (“Plaintiffs”) request that
the court reconsider its May 16, 2023 order granting the motion for attorney’s
fees and costs filed by defendants Dwell Management, LLC, and Simone Shah,
individually and as trustee of the Simone Shah Trust (“Defendants”) and
awarding attorney’s fees in favor of Defendants, to be paid by Plaintiffs, in
the total amount of $32,717.25 pursuant to Civil Code section 1942.4,
subdivision (b)(2).
“When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  The moving party must
file an affidavit that states “what new or different facts, circumstances, or
law are claimed to be shown.”  (Ibid.)  “[A] court acts in
excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based
upon ‘new or different facts, circumstances, or law.’”  (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)  
The court
finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show the existence of new or
different facts or circumstances that warrant reconsideration of the court’s
May 16, 2023 order.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiffs
assert that the court should reconsider its order because (1) the court did not
address each point raised by Plaintiffs in their opposition to Defendants’
motion for attorney’s fees; (2) the court’s orders granting Defendants’ motions
for summary judgment sufficiently compensate Defendants; and (3) requiring
Plaintiffs to pay attorney’s fees to Defendants would cause a significant
financial hardship on them.  The court
finds that these arguments do not constitute new or different facts or circumstances
that support reconsideration of the court’s order. 
First,
although Plaintiffs assert that the court did not address, in its ruling, a
“number [of] points and authorities” raised by their opposition, Plaintiffs did
not identify those points.  (Mot., p.
3:12-16.)  Moreover, the court’s order
(1) stated that it considered Plaintiffs’ opposition papers, (2) addressed
Plaintiffs’ arguments that (i) Defendants’ motion was untimely, and           (ii) Defendants’ counsel billed
excessively, and (3) noted that Plaintiffs did not dispute that Defendants are
entitled to attorney’s fees under Civil Code section 1942.4.  (May 16, 2023 Order, pp. 1:17-19, 2:4-6, 3:11-13,
4:11-18.)  Even if the court did not
expressly address each argument raised by Plaintiffs in its order, the court
did, as set forth above, consider those points in ruling on Defendants’ motion.  (May 16, 2023 Order, p. 1:17-19 [stating that
the court considered the opposition papers].)  
Second,
Plaintiffs’ assertion that Defendants have been adequately compensated by the
courts’ orders granting summary judgment in their favor and against Plaintiffs
is not a new or different fact or circumstance. 
Even if the court were to consider such an assertion to be a new or
different fact or circumstance, Plaintiffs did not “show diligence with a
satisfactory explanation for not having presented” that information
earlier.  (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830,
839.) 
Third,
although the court is sympathetic to plaintiff Jen Bosworth’s diagnosis of a
congenital heart condition and Plaintiffs’ financial condition, Plaintiffs have
not shown that those are new or different facts that would warrant
reconsideration of the court’s order. 
Thus, the
court finds that Plaintiffs have not shown that the court should reconsider its
May 16, 2023 order and therefore denies Plaintiffs’ motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) 
The court
denies Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1008, subd. (d),
128.7, subd. (c)(1).)
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiffs Jen
Bosworth and Miles Horton’s motion for reconsideration. 
            The court orders defendants Dwell
Management, LLC, and Simone Shah, individually and as trustee of the Simone
Shah Trust to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 29, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court