 Case Number:  BC649353    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




cep america-california, f/k/a California Emergency Physicians Medical
   Group, d/b/a CEP America

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
heritage provider network,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC649353




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   29, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
plaintiff’s motion for sanctions (code civ.
  proc., § 128.7)
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff CEP
America-California, f/k/a California Emergency Physicians Medical Group, d/b/a Vituity

 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants Heritage Provider Network, Regal
Medical Group, Inc., Oasis Independent Medical Associates, Inc., Desert Medical
Group, Inc., High Desert Medical Corporation, Affiliated Doctors of Orange
County Medical Group, Bakersfield Family Medical Group, Inc., Sierra Medical
Group, Inc., and Coastal Communities Medical Group, Inc. 
Motion for Sanctions (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7) 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court overrules plaintiff CEP America-California, f/k/a California
Emergency Physicians Medical Group, d/b/a Vituity’s evidentiary objections,
filed on February 22, 2024, to the declaration of Jan Lambert.
 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff CEP America-California, f/k/a California Emergency
Physicians Medical Group, d/b/a Vituity (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order imposing sanctions against defendants Heritage Provider Network, Regal
Medical Group, Inc., Oasis Independent Medical Associates, Inc., Desert Medical
Group, Inc., High Desert Medical Corporation, Affiliated Doctors of Orange
County Medical Group, Bakersfield Family Medical Group, Inc., Sierra Medical
Group, Inc., and Coastal Communities Medical Group, Inc. (“Defendants”)
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 on the ground that Defendants
have asserted unclean hands and fraud-based defenses without an adequate legal
or factual basis.  (Mot., p. 2:2-3.) 
Code of Civil Procedure “[s]ection 128.7 applies only in limited
circumstances.  It ‘authorizes trial
courts to impose sanctions to check abuses in the filing of pleadings,
petitions, written notices of motions or similar papers.’”  (Kumar v. Ramsey (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th
1110, 1120.)  “Under that authority,
trial courts may issue sanctions, including monetary and terminating sanctions,
against a party for filing a complaint [or pleading] that is legally or
factually frivolous.”  (Ibid.;
Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (d).) 
“A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘ “not well grounded in fact” ’
and it is legally frivolous if it is ‘ “not warranted by existing law or a good
faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.”  [Citation.]’” 
(McCluskey v. Henry (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1205.)  “‘In either case, to obtain sanctions, the
moving party must show the party’s conduct in asserting the claim was
objectively unreasonable.  [Citation.]  A claim is objectively unreasonable if “any
reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and completely without
merit.”  [Citation.]’”  (Ibid.)  
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that
Defendants’ conduct in asserting the unclean hands and fraud-based defenses in
the First Amended Answer was objectively unreasonable or that Defendants have
presented those defenses for an improper purpose.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b)(1),
(b)(2), (b)(3); McCluskey, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 1205.) 
First, Plaintiff contends that, in response to various of its discovery
requests, Defendants “could provide no evidence to support [their] new
allegations” and “could not identify even the most basic facts in support of
their allegations.”  (Mot., p. 4:14-15,
4:27-28.)  The court notes that some of Defendants’
discovery responses state that their investigation had just begun and do not
appear to set forth many facts.  (Shin
Decl., Ex. F, pp. 10:9-11:9 [response to Special Interrogatory No. 16].)  However, some of Defendants’ discovery
responses appear to be responsive.  For
example, in response to the special interrogatory requesting that Defendants
state all facts in support of their contention that Plaintiff violated Penal
Code section 550 and/or submitted false claims for payment, Defendants set
forth five assertions of fact.  (Shin
Decl., Ex. F, pp. 6:20-8:6 [response to Special Interrogatory No. 13].)  The court finds that Defendants’ discovery
responses, taken together, do not support Plaintiff’s contention that
Defendants “were and are aware that their fraud-based affirmative defenses are
not supported by facts” or that Defendants’ assertion of these affirmative
defenses is objectively unreasonable. 
(Mot., p. 5:21-23.) 
Second, the court finds that Defendants have submitted evidence, in
their opposition, to show that the challenged defenses are not objectively
unreasonable. 
“[T]he evidentiary burden to escape sanctions under section 128.7 is
light.”  (Kumar, supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 1126.)  “[W]hen
determining whether sanctions should be imposed, the issue is not merely
whether the party would prevail on the underlying factual or legal
argument.”  (Peake v. Underwood (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 428, 448.)  Instead, the
court must determine whether a claim is objectively unreasonable.  (Ibid.)  “Thus, the fact that a [party] fails to
provide a sufficient showing to overcome a demurrer or to survive summary
judgment is not, in itself, enough to warrant the imposition of
sanctions.”  (Ibid.) 
In support of their opposition, Defendants have submitted, inter
alia, the declaration of Jan Lambert, a managing director with Ankura
Consulting, Inc., in which Lambert attests that  (1) Ankura was asked to review 20 claims for
E/M services submitted by Plaintiff to Defendants for reimbursement; (2) of
those 20 claims, all were billed with the highest E/M level (99285); and (3) of
those 20 claims, (i) four supported a 99285 level of care, (ii) 13 supported a
99284 level of care, (iii) one supported a 99283 level of care, (iv) one
supported a 99282 level of care, and (v) one did not support any level of
care.  (Lambert Decl., ¶¶ 1, 6-7.)  Thus, Defendants have presented evidence in
support of their contention that Plaintiff engaged in “upcoding,” and therefore
has presented evidence in support of the factual assertion on which the
challenged affirmative defenses are based.  The court finds that this evidence shows that
“‘any reasonable attorney’” would not agree that Defendants’ affirmative
defenses are “‘totally and completely without merit.’”  (Peake, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th
at p. 448.) 
The court notes that, in reply, Plaintiff takes issue with the
credibility and sufficiency of Defendants’ evidence.  However, as set forth above, the inquiry on a
motion for sanctions “is not merely whether the party would prevail on the
underlying factual or legal argument.”  (Peake,
supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 448; Kumar, supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 1126.)  The inquiry is
instead whether the claim is objectively unreasonable.  (Ibid.)  As set forth above, the court finds that
Defendants’ assertion of their fraud-based and unclean hands affirmative
defenses is not objectively unreasonable.
Third, Plaintiff has not presented evidence or argument showing that
Defendants have asserted the challenged affirmative defenses for an improper
purpose, such as to harass Plaintiff. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(1).) 
Finally, the court acknowledges and expresses that “Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 should be utilized only in ‘the rare and exceptional
case where the action is clearly frivolous, legally unreasonable or
without legal foundation, or brought for an improper purpose.’”  (Kumar, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1121 [emphasis added].)
            Thus, based on the evidence and
arguments presented by the parties in connection with this motion, the court
finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that Defendants’ conduct in
asserting the unclean hands and fraud-based affirmative defenses is legally or
factually frivolous, or that the challenged defenses have been asserted for an
improper purpose.  The court therefore
denies Plaintiff’s motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b).) 
            The court exercises its discretion
to deny Defendants’ request for an award of monetary sanctions in their favor
and against Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 128.7, subd. (c)(1).) 
 
 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff CEP
America-California, f/k/a California Emergency Physicians Medical Group, d/b/a
Vituity’s motion for sanctions. 
            The court orders defendants Heritage
Provider Network, Regal Medical Group, Inc., Oasis Independent Medical
Associates, Inc., Desert Medical Group, Inc., High Desert Medical Corporation,
Affiliated Doctors of Orange County Medical Group, Bakersfield Family Medical
Group, Inc., Sierra Medical Group, Inc., and Coastal Communities Medical Group,
Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 29, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court