 Case Number:  BC697522    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



MOHAMMAD CHAUDHRY

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
GREENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT
   COMPANY

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.
 


Case No. BC697522




 




Department 45




 




 




[Tentative] RULING




 




 




Action Filed: 3/12/18




Trial Date: 7/8/24
 



 
Hearing Date:             May 29, 2024
Moving Parties:           (1) Jonathan L. Gerber, Esq. for Plaintiff,
Mohammad Chaudry
                                    (2) Jonathan
L. Gerber, Esq. for Plaintiff, Bushra Chaudry
                                    (3) Jonathan
L. Gerber, Esq. for Plaintiff, Hassun Chaudry
                                    (4) Jonathan
L. Geber, Esq. for Plaintiff, The Flame Broiler #91
                                    (5) Leon C.
Alexander, Esq. for Plaintiff, Mohammad Chaudry
                                    (2) Leon C.
Alexander, Esq. for Plaintiff, Bushra Chaudry
                                    (3) Leon C.
Alexander, Esq. for Plaintiff, Hassun Chaudry
                                    (4) Leon C.
Alexander, Esq. for Plaintiff, The Flame Broiler #91
 
 
Responding Party:       None
 
Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel 
 
The court has
considered the moving papers.  No
opposition was received.
The court takes
the motions by Jonathan L. Gerber, Esq. OFF CALENDAR as moot because
substitutions of attorney have been filed. 
The court takes
the motion by Leon C. Alexander, Esq. as to Plaintiff Hassun Chaudhry OFF
CALENDAR as moot because a substitution of attorney has been filed. While
substitutions were filed for Leon C. Alexander, Esq. as to the other
Plaintiffs, counsel did not sign the forms.
The court takes
the motions as to The Flame Broiler #91 OFF CALENDAR as moot because it
is no longer a party to the action.
The court DENIES
the motions as Leon C. Alexander, Esq. as to Plaintiffs Mohammad Chaudry
and Bushra Chaudry for insufficient notice and due to the proximity of trial.
Discussion
The court only
addresses Leon C. Alexander, Esq.’s motions as to
Plaintiffs Mohammad Chaudry and Bushra Chaudry, as the other motions are
moot.
Leon C. Alexander,
Esq. moves to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiffs Mohammad Chaudry
and Bushra Chaudry.
The court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398.)
CRC, Rule 3.1362
(Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to
be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under CCP § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under CCP § 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the
notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have
appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on
the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)).
California Rules of Professional Conduct,
rule 1.16(b)(10) states that a lawyer may withdraw from representing a client
if the lawyer believes in good faith that a court overseeing the case will find
good cause for withdrawal. 
The motions are DENIED. The hearing dates on
the instant motions differ on the notices, declarations, and proposed orders,
and no proof of service of notice of the new hearing date has been filed with
the Court. (See 3/26/24 Order.) Thus, there is insufficient notice. Further,
trial is a little over one month away. Withdrawal at this time will result in
prejudice to Plaintiffs.
The court
therefore DENIES the motions to be relieved as counsel by Leon C. Alexander,
Esq. as to Plaintiffs Mohammad Chaudry and Bushra Chaudry.
 
It is so ordered.
Date:   May 29, 2024
 
______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the Superior
Court