  Case Number:  22AHCV01309    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  X Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff's EmployeePlaintiff moves to
compel the deposition of Defendant E&T Foods, Inc.’s employee.  Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Banuelos is DENIED
without prejudice.  Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions is DENIED.
 
This premises
liability case arises from an alleged slip-and-fall that occurred on August 31,
2021 at Baja Ranch Market.  Plaintiff sought
to complete the deposition of Defendant’s employee.  Following meet and confer efforts, it was
agreed that the employee’s deposition would occur on June 28, 2024.  (Ramos Decl., Ex. 2.)  However, on June 27, 2024, the day prior to
the deposition, then defense counsel’s office advised Plaintiff’s counsel that
the deposition could not proceed as defense counsel was being substituted out.  (Ramos Decl., Ex. 3.)
 
On July 9, 2024,
Defendant filed a substitution of attorney, replacing his former attorney
Robert T. Bergsten with a new attorney, Greg Stone.  (Substitution of Attorney, filed 7/9/24.)  The next day, on July 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel the deposition.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides the authority for moving to compel
the deposition of a party-deponent: “If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action ... without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination ... the party giving the notice may
move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  A motion seeking to compel a deposition must
also contain either a meet and confer declaration, or a declaration “stating
that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).)
 
Here, while
Plaintiff may be entitled to depose Defendant’s employee, there is no evidence
to support Plaintiff’s attempt to informally resolve the issue with new counsel
after the nonappearance and prior to the filing of the motion.  Plaintiff attests that meet and confer
attempts were lost as defense counsel failed to produce the employee for
deposition.  (Ramos Decl., ¶ 8.)  Yet, nothing is stated concerning any efforts
he made with new counsel to depose the witness after his failure to appear at
his duly noticed deposition.  The absence
of a meet and confer is evidenced by the fact that the motion was filed one day
after new counsel substituted in the matter. 
(See, Leko v.
Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1124 [failure to consider rescheduling depo
and instead filing motion to compel resulted in sanctions against deposing
counsel for filing unnecessary motion].)
 
In the absence of
any evidence showing a meet and confer with opposing counsel after the failure
of Defendant’s employee to attend his deposition, Plaintiff’s motion is denied
as is his request for sanctions.Moving Party is to give notice.