  Case Number:  22STCV23028    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CHRISTIAN OCHOA 
                           
         vs.
 
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
  CALIFORNIA, et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV23028 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 23, 2024



 
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            On
7/18/2022, Christian Ochoa (Plaintiff) filed suit against the Regents of the
University of California aka University of California, Los Angeles (Defendant
or UCLA), alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation; (4)
failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (5) failure to
accommodate; (6) failure to engage in interactive process; and (7)
whistleblower retaliation. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
 
Factual Background
 
            Plaintiff
was a career food services worker at UCLA. He alleges that he was fired based
on his disability and related protected activity. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that summary judgment is appropriate here because there are no genuine
issues of material fact as to any of Plaintiff’s claims.
 
            The
Court addresses each cause of action in turn. 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Defendant argues that all of Plaintiff’s FEHA-related
allegations predating 1/9/2019 are time-barred. Defendant argues that the
continuing violation doctrine cannot be applied to save any of these
allegations from untimeliness because “Plaintiff admitted, as of 2017,
Defendants’ conduct toward him had reached a degree of permanence and would not
change regardless of any effort on his part to report or stop the conduct.”
(Motion, 17: 15-17.) In support, Defendant cited Richards v. CH2M Hill, Inc.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 822-23.
 
            However,
as noted by Plaintiff in opposition, even applying the standard set forth in Richard,
none of Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred because actionable conduct
supporting each cause of action occurred well within the 2019 statutory period
proffered by Defendant:
 
First, all
termination claims are timely given the termination events in May and June
2019; this applies to the first, third, fourth, and seventh causes of action
for discrimination, retaliation, failure to prevent, and whistleblower
retaliation respectively. Next, as to the second cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges that he was harassed based on his disability after his return to work
in April 2019 and through his termination date, including being called a
“bitch”, a “pussy” and that he was doing “woman’s job” because he required
accommodations. (PF 39, 41, 65.) Finally, the fifth and sixth causes of action
for failure to engage and failure to accommodate are both supported by the
conduct alleged in 2019, including Plaintiff’s termination just days after his
doctor reported he was permanent and stationery, and required continued accommodations.
 
(Opp., 9: 18-24.)
 
            Moreover,
the Court agrees with Plaintiff that there is at the very least a triable issue
as to whether or not the alleged conduct achieved “permanence” before 2019, as
defined in Richards. As argued by Plaintiff:
 
Plaintiff did
not previously make any informal conciliation effort surrounding his harassment
or failures to engage/accommodate, and therefore Defendant did not and could
not make any statements or actions in response to those efforts, whereby it was
made clear that further efforts would be futile. Moreover, Plaintiff’s conduct
confirms that he did believe there was hope, even to the bitter end, that
Defendant would do right by him and comply with the law. He continued to
present his medical restrictions in hopes of being accommodated, even as the
restrictions became permanent and stationery on April 29, 2019, and even though
UCLA proceeded to start the termination machinery just days later on May 3,
2019. Plaintiff also then grieved his termination with the union. He had not
taken any such steps at informal conciliation before those actions in 2019, and
legal ‘permanence’ was therefore impossible in 2017 or 2018 as UCLA argues.
(Opp., 10:
17-25.)
 
            Accordingly,
the Court cannot conclude that Plaintiff’s pre-1/9/2019 claims are time-barred
as a matter of law.
 
I.                  
Discrimination
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s disability discrimination claim fails because Defendant
had a legitimate non-discriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff. 
 
To establish
a claim for disability discrimination, the plaintiff initially has the burden
to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. The plaintiff can meet this
burden by presenting evidence that demonstrates, circumstantially or by
inference, that he or she (1) suffered from a disability, or was regarded as
suffering from a disability; (2) could perform the essential duties of the job
with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse
employment action because of the disability or perceived disability. (Jensen
v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 254.)
 
The McDonnell-Douglas
framework is modified when the employer moves for summary judgment. “[T]he
employer, as the moving party, has the initial burden to present admissible
evidence showing either that one or more elements of plaintiff’s prima facie
case is lacking or that the adverse employment action was based upon
legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.” (Serri v. Santa Clara Univ.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 861 [internal quotation omitted]; accord Dep’t
of Fair Employment & Hous. v. Lucent Techs., Inc. (9th Cir. 2011) 642
F.3d 728, 745. If the employer meets this burden, “it is incumbent upon the
employee to produce ‘substantial responsive evidence’ demonstrating the
existence of a material triable controversy as to pretext or discriminatory
animus on the part of the employer.” (Serri, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at 862.) “Legitimate” reasons in this context are reasons that are
factually unrelated to prohibited bias, and therefore, if true, would preclude
a finding of discrimination. (Guz v. Bechtel Nat’l, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 358.)
 
      In support, Defendant submitted evidence
that Plaintiff was terminated because he pushed another employee, Mr. Juarez,
in violation of the Workplace Violence Prevention Policy. Defendant submitted
evidence that:
 
-        
The University had grounds for
believing Plaintiff had violated the Workplace Violence Prevention Policy based
on Plaintiff’s admission to Mino Bhathena, immediately following the
altercation, that he pushed Mr. Juarez. (UFs 66, 72-74.)
 
-        
Mr. Juarez made a statement to Mr.
Bhathena, memorialized in writing, wherein Mr. Juarez stated that he had asked
Plaintiff, “Why are you pushing me?” (UF 84.)
 
-        
Plaintiff again admitted he pushed Mr.
Juarez in a later investigatory interview. (UF 77.)
 
-        
Elijah Eggleston, an Acrobat employee
also working in the same area, who was not involved in the disagreement between
Plaintiff and Mr. Juarez, saw Plaintiff push Mr. Juarez. (UF 79-81.)
 
-        
Immediately thereafter, Mr. Eggleston
provided a statement, memorialized in writing, of what he had observed. (UF
79-81.)
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Plaintiff was terminated because
he violated the Workplace Violence Prevention Policy, not because of his
disability. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable
issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has direct evidence of discriminatory
animus towards him, and that this is sufficient to show pretext. In support,
Plaintiff supports six cases: Kelly v. Stamps.com Inc. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1088, 1101; Sada v. Robert F. Kennedy Medical Center (1997)
56 Cal.App.4th 138, 145; DeJung v. Sup. Ct. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533,
550; Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc. (2000) 530 U.S. 133,
151; Ash v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (2006) 546 U.S. 454, 456; and Cordova
v. State Farm Ins. Cos. (9th Cir. 1997) 124 F.3d 1145, 1150. 
 
Biased
remarks at any stage, even outside the context of the employment decision, may
be direct or indirect evidence of discrimination and prove discrimination. Both
federal and California state law rejects the “stray remarks doctrine.” (Reid
v. Google (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 538-540; Gov. Code § 12923(c)) [confirming
Reid’s rejection of the stray remarks doctrine, such that on summary judgment
the totality of evidence in the record must be considered, including any
relevant discriminatory remark.] Determining the weight of discriminatory or
ambiguous remarks is a role reserved for the jury.” (Reid, supra,
50 Cal.4th at 541.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Mino Bhathena (Mr. Bhathena),
Plaintiff’s supervisor, was admitted in Defendant’s verified discovery
responses to be a decision-maker in Plaintiff’s termination. (PF 100.) While
Defendant has since tried to walk this back, the Court agrees there is at
minimum a triable issue as to this fact. 
 
-        
Mr. Bhathena called him “bitch” and
“pussy,” and that he was doing a “woman’s job,” in or around February 2017.
(PSS ¶ 23.) 
 
The Court
agrees that this evidence—which shows discriminatory animus from a decision-maker
directed at Plaintiff’s disability—is sufficient to disclose a triable issue as
to whether his termination for a workplace incident was pretextual. This is
especially true given: (1) Plaintiff’s evidence that this incident took place
just four days after Plaintiff submitted his permanent disability
accommodations; (2) Plaintiff’s evidence that other employees were not
terminated even though they violated the same policy; and (3) given that he was
protected by a “just cause” standard for termination under his union agreement
that was not followed. Plaintiff submitted evidence that there was no
progressive discipline for Plaintiff. In particular, Plaintiff submitted
evidence that:
 
-        
There was no progressive discipline for
Plaintiff, though testimony confirms he was entitled to it (PF 6), and the
conduct at issue did not rise to the level of seriousness to justify an
immediate termination. (PF 5-7.)
 
-        
Even a perceived “serious enough”
violation would be subject to further review, including the employee’s length
of employment, prior history of discipline, and similar factors. (PF 92.) 
 
-        
Juarez was not terminated but rather
received just a one-day suspension. (PF 93, 109-112.)
 
-        
Multiple other employees were not fired
though they were found to have violated the same policy, some multiple times.
(PF 91, 119-121, 129.)
 
-        
Plaintiff had no major performance
issues over his nearly ten-year career prior to his workplace injury and
disability, but once he requested accommodations he was subjected to
near-constant harassment (including disability-based comments). (PF 16-53, 65,
101.)
                  
Based on the
foregoing, the Court agrees that this evidence is sufficient to show a triable
issue of material fact as to whether or not Defendant’s proffered reason for
termination is pretextual. 
 
II.              
Harassment 
 
 Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s harassment
claim fails as a matter of law because the majority of his supporting
allegations are time-barred, and because the remaining claims fail to rise to
the level of severe and pervasive. 
 
To be
actionable, harassment based on a disability or medical condition must be
sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of employment and
create a hostile working environment: “[The] acts of harassment cannot be
occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather the plaintiff must show a
concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized
nature.” (Muller v. Automobile Club of Southern Calif. (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 431, 446 [internal quotes omitted] [disapproved on other grounds by
Colmenares v. Braemar Country Club, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1019,].)
“[H]arassment focuses on situations in which the social environment of the
workplace becomes intolerable because the harassment (whether verbal, physical,
or visual) communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee.” (Roby
v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706; Serri v. Santa Clara
University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 869.)
 
As set forth
above, the Court disagrees that Plaintiff’s pre-1/9/2019 allegations are
time-barred. Accordingly, the Court considers all supporting allegations. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that Bhathena harassed Plaintiff based on his
disability from about February 2017 to May 2019, routinely calling him names
like “pussy” and “bitch” and referring derogatorily to his modified duties as a
“woman’s job.” (PF 22, 23, 39, 40, 41, 42 65.) Whether or not this conduct
rises to the level of actionable harassment is a triable issue of material
fact. (Harris v. Forklift Systems (1993) 510 U.S. 17, 23, nothing that whether
conduct is harassing is “usually a question of fact” for the jury.
 
Moreover, an
employer is strictly liable for its supervisors’ actions. (Myers v.
Trendwest Resorts (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1421.) Accordingly,
Bhathena’s conduct is imputable to Defendant. 

 
      The Court agrees that there is a triable
issue as to whether or not Plaintiff’s supervisor’s alleged conduct over the
course of two years rises to the level of severe and pervasive conduct. 
 
III.           
Retaliation 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s retaliation claim fails because Plaintiff did not
complain of FEHA violations, and because it had a legitimate non-discriminatory
reason to terminate Plaintiff’s employment. 
 
To establish
a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, the “plaintiff must show: (1) he
or she engaged in a ‘protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the
employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between
the protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) If the plaintiff successfully
establishes these elements, the burden shifts to the employer to provide
evidence that there was a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason for the adverse
employment action. (Morgan v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2000) 88
Cal.App.4th 52, 68.) If the employer produces evidence showing a legitimate
reason for the adverse employment action, “the presumption of retaliation
‘drops out of the picture,’” and the burden shifts back to the employee to
provide “substantial responsive evidence” the employer’s proffered reasons were
untrue or pretextual. (Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co.
(1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1718, 1735.)
 
In support,
Defendant submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Regarding complaints of FEHA
violations, Plaintiff admitted he never complained to anyone at UCLA about
alleged harassing comments made by his supervisor, Mr. Bhathena, purportedly
connected to Plaintiff’s modified work (UFs 42-43.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff never sought a transfer to
any other department on campus, applied for any other positions at the
University while he was employed, or asked to work in any of the other dining
commons where he could have a different supervisor. (UF 52.)
 
-        
Plaintiff further admits he never
reported any comments from his other supervisors, Glendis Alvarado or Juan
Alvarado, about the severity of his work restrictions, injuries, or leaves of
absence. (UFs 49- 51.) Plaintiff did not ask for any other accommodations
beyond the modified work he was given per his numerous Transitional
Return-to-Work Agreements. (UFs 18, 22, 25, 28.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Plaintiff engaged in several protected acts
which a reasonable jury could find motivated UCLA’s decision to terminate his
employment. First, Plaintiff made multiple requests for reasonable
accommodations arising from his protected disability. This includes the final one, supported by Dr. Bolden’s
report of April 29, 2019, in which Plaintiff’s restrictions were confirmed to
be permanent. Rather than continue to accommodate Plaintiff, Defendant found a
way to terminate him based on an incident that occurred on May 3, just four
days after his doctor’s note. Next, Plaintiff complained to Bhathena about the
constant harassment and name calling and Bhathena told Plaintiff, “There’s
nothing you can do about it and you and I know that.” (Opp., 17: 13-18.) 
 
      A request for
an accommodation is protected activity. (See e.g. Martinez
v. Costco Wholesale Corporation (S.D. Cal. 2020) 481 F.Supp.3d
107.) Moreover, as set forth above, there is a triable issue as to whether or
not Defendant’s proffered reason for termination was pretextual. Taken
together, Plaintiff has submitted evidence that supports a reasonable inference
that he was retaliated against for requesting disability accommodations, and
was pretextually fired for a workplace incident. 
 
IV.           
Failure to
Prevent 
 
Given the
Court’s conclusion that there is a triable issue of fact as to Plaintiff’s
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation claims, there is necessarily a
triable issue as to the claim for failure to prevent. 
 
V.               
Failure to
Accommodate and Failure to Engage in Interactive Process 
 
Defendant
argues that these claims fails because he cannot establish that he was not
fully and consistently accommodated by the University.
 
To establish
a disability discrimination claim based on a failure to accommodate, the
plaintiff must prove that: 1) he has a disability covered by the FEHA; 2) he
can perform the essential functions of the position; and 3) the employer failed
to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Scotch v. Art
Institute of Cal. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1009-1010.)
 
      In support, Defendant submitted evidence
that: 
 
-        
The University provided Plaintiff with
modified work through ten Transitional Return-to-Work Agreements—dated or
prepared 1) September 26, 2017; 2) October 2, 2017; 3) October 10, 2017; 4)
October 16, 2017; 5) November 6, 2017; 6) November 17, 2017; 7) March 22, 2018;
8) May 1, 2018; 9) September 20, 2018; and 10) April 4, 2019. (UFs 14-32, 61.)
 
-        
Plaintiff admits that he did not ask
for any other accommodations during the times he was on modified work. (UFs 18,
22, 25, 28.)
 
-        
When the University could not find a
reasonable accommodation to modify Plaintiff’s job duties within the
limitations his doctor required, Plaintiff was approved for leaves of absence
that were extended as needed as part of the ongoing interactive process. (UFs 33-39.)
 
-        
Plaintiff admits that other than
provide the University with doctor’s notes, Plaintiff never communicated to
anyone at the University about a need for additional leave or changes in his
work restrictions. (UFs 38-39.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff attended an interactive
process meeting with his union representative present where he said he did not
agree with the work restrictions from his doctor and said he could perform all
the essential functions of his job without any accommodation. (UFs 54- 57.)
 
-        
In accordance with Plaintiff’s
indication that he would follow up with his doctor to review his permanent work
restrictions, the University then provided him temporary accommodations while
he did so. (UFs 57-58, 61.)
 
-        
At no point in the April 3, 2019,
interactive process meeting did Plaintiff ever say that the University was not
accommodating his work restrictions, nor did Plaintiff say that anyone at the
University was retaliating against him for having work restrictions or for
requesting accommodations. (UFs 59-60.)
 
-        
After his doctor released him to work,
Plaintiff returned to his previous position in April 2019. (UFs 62-64.)
 
Together,
Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that it accommodated
Plaintiff for a period of approximately two years until he returned to his
position in the De Neve dining hall, with Plaintiff never once communicating a
need for anything beyond the accommodations provided. Accordingly, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that “[s]ummary adjudication of Plaintiff’s fifth
and sixth causes of action for FEHA Failure to Accommodate and FEHA Failure to
Engage must be denied because Defendant required Plaintiff to work outside his
medical restrictions in 2017, forced him on a leave in late 2018 where other
accommodations were available, threatened his job security by calling his leave
“personal” and unprotected (ignoring his FEHA rights) (PF 16-53) and later
terminated Plaintiff’s employment in part based on his having sought
accommodations and taken medical leave.” (Opp., 19:4-7.)
 
In support,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
On April 3, 2019, UCLA only agreed to
“temporarily” accommodate Plaintiff’s restrictions set forth in a March 21,
2019 report of Dr. Borden; they asked Dr. Borden to clarify Plaintiff’s
restrictions.
 
-        
On Monday April 29, 2019, Dr. Borden
clarified the lifting restrictions but left the restrictions as permanent, to
UCLA’s great dismay
 
-        
Plaintiff was terminated arising from
an incident occurring just four days later, on May 3, 2019
 
As such,
Plaintiff has submitted evidence which supports a reasonable inference that
Defendant pretextually terminated Plaintiff rather than accommodate, or engage
in the interactive process around, the permanent restrictions he had submitted
just four days prior. 
 
In other
words, even assuming Defendant did accommodate Plaintiff as to all prior
accommodations, Plaintiff submitted a notice for permanent accommodations four
days before his termination. If, in fact, Defendant terminated Plaintiff as a
way to avoid providing these accommodations, this would amount to a failure to
accommodate and a failure to engage in the interactive process.
 
Accordingly,
a triable issue of material fact exists as to this claim. 
 
VI.           
Whistleblower
Retaliation 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim because Defendant had legitimate
non-discriminatory reasons for terminating him. 
 
To establish
a prima facie claim for retaliation under § 1102.5, an employee must show “(1)
that he engaged in protected activity, (2) that he was thereafter subjected to
an adverse employment action by his employer, and (3) that there was a causal
link between the protected activity and the adverse employment action.” (Morgan
v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal. App. 4th 52, 69.)
 
As set forth
above, the Court concluded that Plaintiff has disclosed sufficient evidence to
support a reasonable inference of pretext. Accordingly, there is a triable
issue of material fact as to whether or not Plaintiff was terminated for
legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons. 
 
VII.        
Conclusion

 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied. Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 