 Case Number:  24STCV14047    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Idan Castiel,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV14047




 
Vs.
 
 


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Philly Auto, Inc. dba LA City Cars and Alexander Landa,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Alexander Landa
Responding Party: Plaintiff Idan Castiel
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED. 
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff Idan Castiel
filed a complaint against Defendants Philly Auto, Inc.
dba LA City Cars and Alexander Landa, asserting causes of action for (1)
retaliation in violation of Labor Code § 98.6; (2) whistleblower retaliation; (3) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (4) failure to pay wages; (5) failure to pay
minimum wages; (6) failure to pay overtime; (7) failure to provide wage
statements; (8) waiting time penalties; and (9) UCL violations. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants misclassified him as an “exempt” employee for wage and hour
purposes, failed to pay him overtime, made unlawful deductions from his pay and
retaliated against him when he complained of these violations and complained
about overcharging customers by terminating his employment.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant Landa demurs to the complaint on the grounds that he, as an
individual, cannot be held liable for retaliation, wrongful termination, or
wage and hour claims. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
showing that Landa was an “employer” and that these claims may only lie against
the Defendant entity employer, Philly Auto, Inc.
 
In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges that both Philly Auto and Landa are
his employers. Plaintiff alleges that Landa is the alter ego of Philly Auto.
Plaintiff also alleges that Landa was directly involved and in charge of the
wrongful conduct at issue here. Plaintiff alleges Landa was engaged in the
illegal practice of including add-ons to customer car sales contracts, and in making
suspicious deductions from Plaintiff’s pay. When Plaintiff asked other colleagues
about these issues, he was told that employees don’t have authority to override
Landa and that this is how Landa does business. Plaintiff also was told to be
careful and not to ask too many questions about Defendants’ money. When
confronted directly with Plaintiff’s concern, Plaintiff alleges Landa stated,
“I can do whatever I want.” Plaintiff’s employment was terminated shortly
thereafter.
 
On demurrer the Court must treat the allegations in the pleadings as
true. Plaintiff has alleged several facts showing Landa controlled Philly Auto,
acted as Plaintiff’s employer, and was directly responsible for the wrongful
conduct at the heart of this action. These allegations are also sufficient to allege
UCL violations. 
 
Defendant Landa’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
 
 