  Case Number:  21STCV32131    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Derrick R. Upchurch, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV32131




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
BC Design and Development, Inc., et
  al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Vacate Arbitration and
Reinstate Action
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Derrick R. Upchurch and
Sari M. Upchurch
Responding Party: Defendant Nathalie Dougé
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
CCP 1281.98(a) provides, “In an employment or
consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of
state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, that the
drafting party pay certain fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration
proceeding, if the fees or costs required to continue the arbitration
proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party
is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the
arbitration, and waives its right to compel the employee or consumer to proceed
with that arbitration as a result of the material breach.” Subsection (b)(1)
allows the non-drafting party the option of withdrawing the dispute from
arbitration and proceeding in Court in the event the drafting party violates
subsection (a). 
Plaintiffs move to vacate the parties’
arbitration proceeding on the ground that Defendant Douge failed to timely pay
an arbitration invoice. Plaintiffs assert that Defendant failed to pay a
September 3, 2024 invoice by the due date of October 4, 2024. In opposition,
Defendant’s counsel represents that the invoice was not received on September
3, 2024 via email. Counsel represents that counsel’s IT person stated that
there was a “system wide ‘parameter error’
on 09/03, one which impacted our ability to receive emails.” Counsel states
that the invoice was not received until September 24, 2024 and that the check
was mailed to AAA on October 3, 2024.
The
Court is unpersuaded that Defendant has violated CCP § 1281.98(a). Defendant’s counsel represents that the
invoice was not timely received and, even barring this issue, counsel sent
payment to AAA before the October 4, 2024 deadline.
Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED.


 