 Case Number:  23STCV09536    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
California Credits Group, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09536




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving Party: Defendants Foster Poultry Farms, LLC
and Foster Farms, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff California Credits Group, LLC
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS' MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff California
Credits Group, LLC sued Defendants Foster Poultry Farms, LLC and Foster Farms,
LLC, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; and (2) breach of
implied covenant of good faith. 
 
Plaintiff is a provider of tax credit services with a primary focus on California “Enterprise
Zone” credits. As part of the services offered to its clients, CCG identifies
available tax credits based on the location of the business in areas designated
as “Enterprise Zones.” CCG then determines which employees are eligible to
qualify to generate credit (“qualifying employees”), submits the required
documentation to the appropriate agencies, and takes other necessary steps to
facilitate the clients’ qualification for Enterprise Zone credits. Once
qualified, credits may be utilized by the clients to offset or reduce their tax
liabilities.
 
After CCG completes the qualification process, clients utilize the
Enterprise Zone tax credits in the years they can be applied based on the
applicable California Franchise tax rules. Clients may benefit from credits
associated with a qualifying employee for a period of several years after the
employee has been qualified. CCG charges its clients a fee equal to a fixed
percentage of all the credits (and interest) ultimately generated from
employees qualified by CCG. Unused credits are carried over to next year.
 
A provision in CCG’s contracts with Defendants states, “Any
reorganization by the Company that results in the suspension or elimination of
Credits identified by CCG will be treated as being utilized by the Company at
such time of reorganization.” CCG alleges that the Foster Defendants
“reorganized” in a series of transactions in June 2022 that included a change
in ownership of the Foster companies, and that due to this reorganization EZ
credits became unusable. CCG alleges it is entitled to compensation for the
unused credits under this provision.
 
EVIDENCE
OBJECTIONS
“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.” (CCP §
437c(q).) Defendants’ objections to the declaration of Cameron R. Partovi are
OVERRULED.
ANALYSIS
 “The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.) 
 
A. Issue Preclusion
 
“Issue preclusion prohibits the relitigation of issues
argued and decided in a previous case, even if the second suit raises different
causes of action.”  (DKN Holdings LLC
v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824.) 
“Under issue preclusion, the prior judgment conclusively resolves an
issue actually litigated and determined in the first action.”  (Id.) 
“[I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after final adjudication (2) of an
identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first
suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or one in
privity with that party.”  (Id. at
825.)
 
Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s claim is barred by issue preclusion/collateral
estoppel. In an unpublished opinion, the Second District Court of Appeal ruled
on a case in which Plaintiff CCG attempted to enforce the same contract
provision at issue here against a different Defendant: California Credits Grp., LLC v. Williams Lea,
Inc. (Nov. 1, 2022) No. B314035,
2022 WL 16569323. In Williams Lea, the Defendant and contracting party,
WLI, changed ownership: WLI’s sole shareholder sold its stock in WLI to a new
entity. WLI did not change corporate status and there were no management
changes at WLI. The sale, however, was treated as a sale of assets for tax
purposes resulting in WLI’s being “liquidated,” and WLI’s EZ credits ceased to
carry over to the next year. Plaintiff CCG argued that WLI was “reorganized” in
a way that prevented the use of EZ credits. 
 
The Court of Appeal ruled against Plaintiff,
reasoning that WLI was not “reorganized.” The Court interpreted the provision
to apply only when a transaction “both (1) constitutes a reorganization, and
(2) results in the suspension or elimination of credits identified by CCG.” The
Court elaborated: “Applying this principle, the structure of the reorganization
provision indicates that the loss of tax credits alone cannot constitute a
‘reorganization.’ Instead, a ‘reorganization’ must involve some ‘change’ to the
way WLI is ‘organized,’ in addition to the ‘suspension or elimination of
[c]redits.’ Otherwise, as the trial court reasoned, ‘any loss of the tax
credits [would] ... trigger the [reorganization] provision,’ rendering the word
‘reorganization’ in the provision a nullity.” The Court concluded that CCG
failed to show that the sale of WLI stock resulted in a change to the “‘systematic[
]’ ‘arrange[ment]’ of WLI's ‘structure.’”
 
Defendants assert that the decision in Williams
Lea requires the Court to reach the same conclusion here. Defendants
emphasize the trial court’s conclusion that WLI did not reorganize because it “was not merged with another corporation and did not go
through a bankruptcy.” Defendants argue that this means that “reorganization”
under the contract is only something “akin to bankruptcy.” Defendants present
evidence showing neither Defendant Foster Poultry Farms, LLC nor Foster Farms, LLC have filed for
bankruptcy. Defendants represent that the only change that occurred from the June
2022 transactions at issue was a change in ownership. 
 
Defendants also
represent that the EZ credits were transferred to the new owner and that EZ
credits were utilized by at least one shareholder after the sale of Defendants.
Defendants assert that this means that the second requirement of the contract
provision – the suspension or
elimination of credits identified by CCG – is also unmet. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff presents evidence
showing that at least one of the Defendant entities changed form from a
corporation to an LLC, eliminating its ability to use EZ credits under the
applicable law. Plaintiff also presents evidence showing that the 2022
transactions by Defendants resulted in mergers, changes in tax elections,
management and board changes, changes in product lines and business operations,
and changes in relationships between companies (i.e. parent v. subsidiary v.
sister companies.) And Plaintiff presents evidence that although the EZ credits
were transferred to the new owner of Defendants, the new owner does not own any
business operations in the enterprise zones, effectively eliminating their
ability to be used. 
 
The Court is unpersuaded that Plaintiff’s claims
in this action are barred by issue preclusion. The Court of Appeal in Williams
Lea did not hold that only a transaction “akin to bankruptcy” constitutes a
“reorganization” under the relevant contract provision. And there are
significant factual distinctions between the change in ownership in Williams
Lea and the change in ownership here. The requirement for issue preclusion that
the previous litigation address an “identical issue” is not met here. The
motion cannot be granted on this basis.
 
B.
Breach of Contract
 
Defendants alternatively argue that, independent of the conclusions in Williams
Lea, the facts here do not show a “reorganization” that resulted in the “suspension
or elimination” of EZ credits. Defendants reason that there was no
reorganization because the entities only changed ownership, and there was no elimination
or suspension of credits because the credits carried over to the new owner. As
stated, Plaintiff presents evidence showing that the change in ownership of
Defendants resulted in significant changes to the form of the entities and the
relationships of the entities to each other. Plaintiff also represents that
management and operations changes occurred. As a result of these changes, the
ability to use EZ credits ceased. This is sufficient to create triable issues
of fact as to breach of contract.
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED.


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
California Credits Group, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09536




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions to Seal
 
T/R:     THE MOTIONS TO SEAL ARE GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
opposition has been received. 
 
“The court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (CRC Rule 2.550(d).)  “The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.”  (CRC Rule
2.551(b)(1).)
 
Both parties move to seal certain items
filed in connection to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Defendants move
to seal portions Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibits 1, 3, and 4
to the Byrne Declaration, and Exhibits 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, and 11 through 16 of the
Sadra Declaration. Plaintiff moves to seal Exhibits 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, and 11
through 16 of the Sadra Declaration. The parties assert that the sealed content
includes private financial and proprietary information of both parties that
would be detrimental to the parties if it were to be made public. This is
sufficient to show an overriding interest justifying the sealing of these
records. The Court finds that the criteria in CRC Rule 2.550(d) have been met.
 
The motions to seal are GRANTED.


 


 