  Case Number:  22AHCV00842    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 2, 2024                           TRIAL DATE: January 28, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         ARMINE VARTANYAN
v. LAW OFFICE OF MARILYN SMITH, et al. 

 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00842
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Armine Vartanyan
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Marlyn M. Smith
 
SERVICE:                              Filed and served January 23, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff moves for an
order compelling Defendant Marilyn Smith to provide responses to form interrogatories, set one.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a legal malpractice case. On
October 14, 2022, Plaintiff commenced this action against Defendants Marilyn
Smith and Law Office of Marilyn Smith for legal malpractice.
 
On April 5, 2023, Smith filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff for breach of written contract, account
stated, common count – services rendered upon request, and common count –
quantum meruit. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel responses to form interrogatories, set one is MOOT.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling a response to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. section
2030.290, subd. (b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant Smith represents that responses to the subject discovery were
served on March 1, 2024. (Schneider Decl., ¶2, Exh. 1.) Thus, the motion is
MOOT.
 
            Plaintiff requests
sanctions in the amount of $518.91 against Smith based on two to three hours
and the assistance of a licensed attorney to research and prepare the instant
motion at a cost of $450.00, the motion filing fee of $61.65 plus e-filing fees
of $7.26. (Vartanyan Decl., ¶5.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides a court
shall impose sanctions against a party who successfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
 
Further, under CRC, Rule 3.1348(a),
the Court may award sanctions in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. 
 
Defendant Smith opposes the
imposition of sanctions on the grounds that her counsel was responsible for the
tardy service of responses and Plaintiff did not request fees against counsel
as due process requires. Further, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is
self-represented and does not provide any evidence of fees for assistance from
an attorney. 
 
Defendant’s counsel states the
following: “The failure to timely respond to Plaintiff’s form interrogatories
set one is entirely attributable to me, and not to Defendant. My failure was
due to my not checking my post office box for discovery served by Plaintiff. I
had no expectation that discovery would be received in this matter, as I had
requested that Plaintiff serve and deliver all documents in this case by
electronic mail and not by United States mail. A true and correct copy of my
March 15, 2023 letter requesting same is attached as Exhibit 2 and incorporated
by reference. This is the first time that a party has not complied with such a
request, so I was not expecting to receive service of form interrogatories by
United States mail.” (Scheider Decl., ¶3.) 
 
Based on defense counsel’s
representations, the Court finds the imposition of sanctions against Defendant
would be unjust and would only be justified against Defendant’s counsel.
Plaintiff has not sought sanctions against defense counsel as required by CCP §
2023.040. Accordingly, sanctions are denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel responses to form interrogatories, set one is MOOT.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against Smith is DENIED.
 
            Moving Party
to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   May 2, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
