 Case Number:  23STCV05811    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
BFF CONSTRUCTION, INC.,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
R&M BRO’S
  CONSTRUCTION INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV05811
  Hearing Date:  January 10, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-defendants’ motion for summary
  judgment or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 15, 2023, Plaintiffs BFF
Construction, Inc. (BFF) and RB Realty Management, LLC (RB) filed this action
against Defendants R&M Bro’s Construction Inc. (R&M) and Miguel Duarte
Olmos (Duarte). Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March
5, 2024, alleging (1) breach of contract, (2) implied indemnity, (3)
negligence, (4) conversion, (5) fraud, (6) money had and received, (7) breach
of contract, (8) conversion, and (9) money had and received.  
            The case involves a construction
project that took place in Ventura County. The property is owned by RB. BFF was
the general contractor on the project, and R&M was the subcontractor.
Duarte owns and operates R&M. The complaint alleges that R&M performed
its work negligently, causing multiple shutdowns and delays. BFF terminated
R&M from the project, and Duarte allegedly retaliated by vandalizing the
property and destroying or stealing certain materials. R&M also allegedly
absconded with money meant for paying BFF’s vendors. 
            On April 26, 2023, R&M and
Duarte filed a lawsuit in Ventura Superior Court (Case No. 2023CUBC008227).
R&M and Duarte filed the first amended complaint in that action on July 11,
2023 (R&M Complaint). The R&M Complaint was asserted against RB, BFF,
Arixa Enhanced Income Fund (Arixa), Hudson Insurance Company (Hudson), Bahram
Fata (Fata), and Roes 1-120. The R&M Complaint alleged that R&M was not
paid for the work it performed on the project and sought, among other things,
to foreclose on a mechanics lien. The R&M Complaint also alleged that
Duarte suffered physical injuries while working on the project. 
            R&M and Duarte thereafter filed a
motion to transfer this case to Ventura Superior Court. The Court denied this
motion on September 1, 2023. On November 28, 2023, R&M and Duarte filed a
cross-complaint in this Court, essentially mirroring the R&M Complaint that
was filed in Ventura, with a few added causes of action. 
On October 24, 2024, BFF and RB filed the
instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication against the
cross-complaint. Arixa and Jet Insurance Company (Roe 41) filed joinders to the
motion on October 25, 2024. R&M and Duarte filed separate oppositions on
December 27, 2024. BFF and RB filed their reply on January 3, 2025.  
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Cross-Complainants’
Objections:

“All written objections to
     evidence must be served and filed separately from the other papers in
     support of or in opposition to the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
     3.1354(b).) “[T]he objections must not be restated or reargued in the
     separate statement.” (Ibid.) Cross-Complainants did not separately
     file any objections but have included objections solely in their separate
     statement. This is improper, and thus no objections will be
     considered.  

Cross-Defendants’
Objections:

Cross-Defendants’ objections
     are overruled. 

 
DISCUSSION
I.
Mechanics Lien (Second, Fourth, and Fifth COAs)
            a. Authorization 
“A claim of mechanics lien shall be a
written statement, signed and verified by the claimant . . . .” (Civ. Code, §
8416(a).) Cross-Defendants argue that the liens at issue were not signed by the
claimant (R&M) but by Salina Morales, an employee of Easy Law Construction
Notices (Easy Law). (Cross-Def.’s Compendium of Exhibits (COE), Ex. 2-1, 2-2.)
Ms. Morales executed the liens under a verification stating the following: “I,
the undersigned, declare that I am the attorney in fact for R&M Bro's
Construction Inc. the Claimant named in the foregoing claim of mechanics lien;
I am authorized to make this verification for the Claimant; I have read the
foregoing claim of mechanics lien and, based upon my information and belief,
know the contents thereof to be true.” (Ibid.) 
Cross-Defendants argue that Duarte never
signed a power of attorney authorizing Ms. Morales to act as R&M’s
attorney-in-fact. (Cross-Def.’s Stmt. of Undisputed Facts (UF) 1-4.) However,
Cross-Defendants’ own caselaw indicates that a lien does not have to be
executed by an attorney-in-fact. (See Sunset Lumber Co. v. Smith (1928)
95 Cal.App. 307, 316 [“the verification to claims of lien . . . may be made by any
person who knows the facts”]; Parke & Lacy Co. v. Inter Nos Oil
& Development Co. (1905) 147 Cal. 490, 494 [“the claim of lien may
be verified by any person who is possessed of sufficient knowledge upon
the subject to make the verification, and the particular relation that he bears
to the claimant is immaterial”].)
Cross-Defendants present no evidence
precluding the possibility that Ms. Morales was R&M’s authorized
representative or agent. Agency means “manifestation of consent by one person
to another that the other shall act on his behalf and subject to his control,
and consent by the other so to act.” (Hoffmann v. Young (2022) 13
Cal.5th 1257, 1274, internal citations omitted.) “[A]n agency relationship may
. . . be created informally, based on the circumstances and the parties'
conduct.” (Ibid.)  
The verifications here state that Ms.
Morales was authorized by R&M to execute the liens and knew the contents to
be true. (Cross-Def.’s COE, Ex. 2-1, 2-2.) Ms. Morales avers that Duarte
authorized her to execute the liens through phone calls and email
correspondence. (Morales Decl. ¶ 7.) Additionally, Duarte signed and returned
the draft liens that Ms. Morales had sent him, indicating his approval. (R&M’s
COE, Ex. 58, 59.) A reasonable trier of fact may find that Duarte consented to
Ms. Morales executing the claims of lien on behalf of R&M. 
b. Sufficient Knowledge
Cross-Defendants also argue that the liens
are improper because Ms. Morales did not have “sufficient knowledge upon the
subject to make the verification.” (See Parke & Lacy, supra, 147
Cal. at p. 494.) Cross-Defendants cite to Duarte’s deposition testimony, which
revealed that Duarte “sent to [Easy Law] . . . the amount that was owed and on
the job that [BFF and RB] didn’t pay.” (Cross-Def.’s COE, Ex. C at 184:14-17.)
Duarte also testified that he could not remember whether Easy Law asked
questions about the sum. (Id. at 184:19-21.) Cross-Defendants use this
testimony to support their contention that Ms. Morales “never received any of
the invoices issued by R&M and never received other information about the
work that was performed but was allegedly unpaid.” (UF 7.)  
However, the cited evidence does not
support that contention. Duarte did not testify that Ms. Morales never received
the invoices or any other information about the work. Cross-Defendants cite no
evidence of Ms. Morales’ knowledge at the time she executed the claims of lien.
Ms. Morales avers that she executed the liens based on information obtained
from her correspondence with Duarte. (Morales Decl. ¶ 7.) Thus, there is a
triable issue over whether Ms. Morales had adequate knowledge to execute the
liens.  
            
c. Preliminary Notice
            “A preliminary notice shall be given
not later than 20 days after the claimant has first furnished work on the work
of improvement. If work has been provided by a claimant who did not give a
preliminary notice, that claimant shall not be precluded from giving a
preliminary notice at any time thereafter. The claimant shall, however, be
entitled to record a lien, give a stop payment notice, and assert a claim
against a payment bond only for work performed within 20 days prior to the
service of the preliminary notice, and at any time thereafter.” (Civ. Code, §
8204(a).) 
            Cross-Defendants argue that R&M
only issued one preliminary notice on December 29, 2022 even though the first
invoice for work performed was in September 2021. (UF 9-10.) However, Civil
Code section 8204(a) does not preclude a claim from being made on a late
notice; it merely limits the claimable amount. Thus, the cause of action does
not fail for this reason.
            d. Fraud
            “[E]rroneous information contained
in a claim of lien relating to the claimant’s demand, credits and offsets
deducted, the work provided, or the description of the site, does not
invalidate the claim of lien” unless “the court determines either of the
following: (1) The claim of lien was made with intent to defraud. (2) An
innocent third party, without notice, actual or constructive, became the bona
fide owner of the property after recordation of the claim of lien, and the
claim of lien was so deficient that it did not put the party on further inquiry
in any manner.” (Civ. Code, § 8422(a), (b).) “Any person who shall willfully
include in a claim of lien labor, services, equipment, or materials not
furnished for the property described in the claim, shall thereby forfeit the
person’s lien.” (Id., § 8422(c).)     
    
            Cross-Defendants’ evidence at most
establishes that R&M’s liens were inaccurate, not that they were made with
intent to defraud. (See UF 11-19.) Additionally, Duarte demonstrates his
calculation of the amount owed through invoices. (Duarte Decl. ¶¶ 14-16;
R&M’s COE, Ex. 3-42.) The actual amount owed and whether the liens were
willfully inaccurate are factual questions for trial. 
            e. “Substantial Accuracy”
            Cross-Defendants also argue that the
preliminary notice was not made with “substantial accuracy” as required by Rental
Equip. v. McDaniel Builders (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 445, 451-52. However, Rental
Equipment acknowledged that “the estimate called for can be in compliance
with the statute even though it badly misses the mark with reference to the
total charges as finally tallied.” (Id. at p. 450.) “[T]he statutory
requirement of substantial accuracy was designed to avoid prejudice to the
party claimed against, and . . . in the absence of prejudice, recovery [is] not
limited to the amount stated in the notice.” (Id. at p. 451.) As
discussed above, erroneous information in a lien does not invalidate it unless
the lien was made with fraudulent intent. (Civ. Code, § 8422.) Thus, inaccuracy
in the liens does not invalidate the claims as a matter of law.        
            In sum, because triable issues
remain as to the validity of the mechanics liens, summary adjudication is
unwarranted. The motion is DENIED as to the second, fourth, and fifth causes of
action. 
II.
Negligence and Premises Liability (Fourteenth and Fifteenth COAs)
            a. Privette Doctrine
“At common law, a person who hired an
independent contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries
caused by the contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693.) “The reasoning was that the work
performed was the enterprise of the contractor, who, as a matter of business
convenience, would be better able than the person employing the contractor to
absorb accident losses incurred in the course of the contracted work.” (Ibid.)
“When a person or organization hires an independent contractor, the hirer
presumptively delegates to the contractor the responsibility to do the work
safely.” (Sandoval v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269.)

When it comes to “the duty to provide the
contractor's employees with a safe working environment,” there is an especially
strong “policy in favor of delegation of responsibility and assignment of
liability” to the contractor, “principally because of the availability of
workers' compensation.” (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659,
671.) Thus, even where a contractor’s employee is injured during work involving
a peculiar risk or inherent danger, the employee is limited to recovering in
worker’s compensation and cannot pursue the party that hired the contractor. (Privette,
supra, 5 Cal.4th at pp. 692. 696.)[1]
Additionally, “even where workers' compensation is not available, [courts] have
refused to let an independent contractor personally sue a hirer under a
vicarious liability theory, reasoning that society can readily expect a
competent contractor to have both good reason and knowledge to exercise
responsibility over the contractor's own personal safety.” (Sandoval, supra,
12 Cal.5th at pp. 270-71, citing Tverberg v. Fillner Construction,
Inc. (2010) 49 Cal.4th 518, 521.) 
b. Exceptions
Nonetheless, “when the hirer does not
fully delegate the task of providing a safe working environment, but in some
manner actively participates in how the job is done, and that participation
affirmatively contributes to the employee's injury, the hirer may be liable in
tort to the employee.” (Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 671.)
            1.
Control Exception
“[A] hirer of an independent contractor is
not liable to an employee of the contractor merely because the hirer retained
control over safety conditions at a worksite, but . . . a hirer is liable to an
employee of a contractor insofar as a hirer's exercise of retained control affirmatively
contributed to the employee's injuries.” (Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 202, emphasis in original.) “A hirer ‘retains
control’ where it retains a sufficient degree of authority over the manner of
performance of the work entrusted to the contractor.” (Sandoval, supra, 12
Cal.5th at p. 274.) This means that “the hirer's exercise of that authority
would sufficiently limit the contractor's freedom to perform the contracted
work in the contractor's own manner.” (Id. at p. 275.) “‘Affirmative
contribution’ means that the hirer's exercise of retained control contributes
to the injury in a way that isn't merely derivative of the contractor's
contribution to the injury.” (Id. at p. 277.) 
            2.
Concealed Hazard
Additionally, “[a] landowner cannot
effectively delegate to the contractor responsibility for the safety of its
employees if it fails to disclose critical information needed to fulfill that
responsibility, and therefore the landowner would be liable to the contractor's
employee if the employee's injury is attributable to an undisclosed hazard.” (Kinsman,
supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 674.) Thus, “the hirer as landowner may be
independently liable to the contractor's employee, even if it does not retain
control over the work, if: (1) it knows or reasonably should know of a
concealed, preexisting hazardous condition on its premises; (2) the contractor
does not know and could not reasonably ascertain the condition; and (3) the
landowner fails to warn the contractor.” (Id. at p. 675.) 
c. Application
“Under the Privette doctrine, there
is no legal distinction between a general contractor and a landowner who hires
independent contractors; both are ‘hirers’ within the meaning of the doctrine.”
(Michael v. Denbeste Transportation, Inc. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1082,
1097.) Thus, the Privette doctrine, if applicable, would immunize both
BFF (the general contractor) and RB (the owner). Both are considered to have
hired R&M and Duarte. Additionally, as discussed above, the Privette
doctrine applies even if worker’s compensation is unavailable. (See Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at pp. 270-71.) Thus, the fact that Duarte owns R&M
and cannot obtain worker’s compensation as an employee (Duarte Decl. ¶ 3) does
not defeat Privette in this case. However, as explained below, there are
triable issues relating to the exceptions which prevent summary adjudication. 
                        1.
Control Exception
            The evidence suggests that Fata
retained control over the drilling of holes in a manner that contributed to
Duarte’s injury. When Duarte met with Fata onsite in February 2022, Fata
informed Duarte that the construction would include embedding concrete cylinders
into the soil. (Duarte Decl. ¶ 15.) Fata further stated that this would be done
by first drilling holes into the ground, then lowering steel reinforcement
cages into the holes, and lastly filling the holes with concrete. (Ibid.)
Fata hired a different subcontractor to do the drilling but instructed R&M
to move the soil excavated from the drilling. (Id., ¶¶ 16-17.) Fata then
directed R&M to assemble the steel reinforcement cages for placement into
the holes and provided specific instructions regarding how the steel was to be
assembled. (Id., ¶¶ 18-21.)
On March 21, 2022, Fata directed R&M
to lower the first cage into a hole, and Duarte fell into the hole, being
dragged down along with the cage. (Id., ¶¶ 22-23.) The hole that Duarte
fell into was approximately 60 feet deep, but the cage being lowered into it
was only 38 feet long. (Duarte Decl. ¶ 24.) Duarte avers that further grading
and excavation of the holes could have lessened the depth of the holes and made
installation of the steel cages safer. (Id., ¶ 25.)
            Cross-Defendants argue that Duarte’s
declaration is inconsistent with his deposition testimony, where he stated that
he fell into the hole while inspecting it but could not recall how he fell in.
(See Cross-Def.’s Ex. C at 129:8-13.) Duarte’s declaration does not contradict
this. Falling into a hole while inspecting it, and falling in while a steel
cage is being lowered, are not mutually exclusive. And Duarte’s failure to
recall how he fell in at the time of his deposition does not preclude him from
providing further detail in a later declaration. 
            Cross-Defendants further contend
that they could not have contributed to Duarte’s injury because Duarte admitted
that he was responsible for his own safety. (See Cross-Def.’s Ex. 12 at p. 96
[text to Fata stating “I’ll handle safety seriously from now on”].) Duarte’s
text to Fata after the incident does not constitute a legal admission regarding
the application of the Privette doctrine. The text reveals no facts
about the degree of control that Fata exercised over the excavation or how that
control may have contributed to Duarte’s injury. Furthermore, “summary judgment
should not be based on tacit admissions or fragmentary and equivocal
concessions, which are contradicted by other credible evidence.” (Whitmire
v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1089.) Thus, the text
does not absolve Cross-Defendants from liability as a matter of law.      
            Ultimately, a reasonable trier of
fact may find from the evidence that Fata retained control over the
installation of concrete cylinders in a manner that affirmatively contributed
to Duarte’s injury. (See Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 202.) Thus,
there is a triable issue over the application of the control exception. 
2. Concealed
Hazard
Cross-Defendants argue that the concealed
hazard exception does not apply because Duarte was aware of the hole being
drilled before he fell into it. (Cross-Def.’s COE, Ex. C at pp. 124-129.) This
does not preclude a triable issue, because the concealed hazard is not
necessarily the existence of the hole itself. 
Here, the concealed hazard may have been a
vertical depth limit that was known by Fata but not Duarte. Specifically, BFF
received a report from Irvine Geotechnical stating that “the bedrock is capable
of maintaining vertical excavations up to 12 feet high.” (Duarte Decl., Ex. K.)
Duarte was not aware of this limitation at the time of his fall. (Id., ¶
26.) The unsafe depth of the hole may constitute a hazard which was concealed
from Duarte and led to his injury. (See Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p.
675.) Cross-Defendants argue that the report refers to above-ground
excavations, not below-ground excavations. However, the report does not specify
whether it governs above or below ground excavations; it merely states
“vertical excavations.” The interpretation of the report is itself a factual
issue. Thus, there is a triable issue over the application of the concealed
hazard exception. 
Because triable issues exist regarding at
least one exception to the Privette rule, Cross-Defendants cannot be
deemed immune from liability as a matter of law at this stage. The motion is
DENIED as to the fourteenth and fifteenth causes of action.  
III.
Alter Ego
Establishing alter ego “generally requires
the proponent to demonstrate two elements: (1) a unity of interest and
ownership such that the separate personalities of the corporation and the
individual do not exist; and (2) an inequitable result if the corporate
identity is not disregarded.” (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 172, 189.) “The alter ego test encompasses a host of factors,” and
“[t]his long list of factors is not exhaustive.” (Zoran Corp. v. Chen
(2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 812.) “No single factor is determinative, and
instead a court must examine all the circumstances to determine whether to
apply the doctrine.” (Ibid.)
This is an inherently factual inquiry
unsuited for summary adjudication. Cross-Defendants point out that in his
deposition, Duarte did not know whether BFF, RB, and Fata shared bank accounts,
commingled assets, failed to maintain adequate records, etc. (UF 36-42.)
However, Duarte’s lack of knowledge about this information does not prove as a
matter of law that Cross-Defendants are not alter egos. R&M identified
documents in its responses to requests for production aimed at the alter ego
allegations. (Cross-Def.’s Ex. A, RFP Nos. 69-74.) Cross-Defendants claim that
none of the identified documents support a unity of interest but provide no
explanation. (See UF 43.) Thus, the Court cannot find as a matter of law that
there is no evidence of alter ego. A triable issue remains. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is DENIED. 


