 Case Number:  23STCV24705    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-24-24
Case
#: 23STCV24705
Trial
Date: 2-18-25
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Abigail Renteria
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, General Motors LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Abigail Renteria alleges a General Motors vehicle suffers from defective body
system, defective powertrain system, defective safety system, defective
electrical system, defective braking system, and, defective noise system. 
 
On
October 10, 2023, plaintiff filed a complaint against General Motors LLC for Violations
of the Song-Beverly Act Civil Code section 1793.2, Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty, and Violation of the Song-Beverly
Act—Breach of Implied Warranty. General Motors answered the complaint on
December 6, 2023.
 
RULING: Continued.
Plaintiff Luis Robles moves to compel further responses to
request for production of documents, numbers 16-21. The dispute involves the
request for general categories of documents to which Plaintiff characterizes as
unmeritorious objections and non-responsive statements. Defendant in opposition
maintains unnecessarily voluminous discovery, sufficient prior production, and
an agreement under the stipulated protective order for any further production
in compliance with the subject items. GM also challenges the sufficiency of the
meet and confer effort. GM also stands by the objections, based on the
responsiveness in prior production and denial of the necessity for production
of information regarding other “CTS” vehicles, and the privilege objections.
 
Plaintiff in reply maintains it seeks information relevant
to make, model and year, and the sufficiency of the meet and confer process.
 
Due to the increasing volume of filed Lemon Law cases
in this courtroom and presumably countywide, including the increasing number of
motions to compel further responses, particularly for document production, this
court generally adheres to certain, consistent guidelines for its cases: an
approach allowing discovery into the relevant make and model year for all
impacted systems or parts, without opening the door for a general inquiry into
any and all lemon law claims filed against vehicle manufacturers for all makes
and models, including varying individual and potential system defects. The goal
is to facilitate robust adjudication of the case, without imposing any burden
on defendant to determine the cause of the purported defects, while also
allowing Plaintiff the opportunity to investigate. The court in no way
doctrinally adheres to this policy. The court established this policy based on
established practice standards common among counsel in this field based on
standards established and reviewed by practice and reviewed at least in party
by appellate courts. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153-154; Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc., supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1104-1105.) No doubt
other courts may take different approaches. The court in no way seeks to invite
comparisons with other courtrooms. The court only notes its reasoning behind
its policy.
 
Under the Song-Beverly Act, “[a] plaintiff pursuing
an action under the Act has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a
nonconformity covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the
use, value or safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the
vehicle was presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of
the vehicle for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or
his representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of
repair attempts (the failure to repair element). (Civ.Code, § 1793.2; Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co.
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878, 886–887, 263 Cal.Rptr. 64.)” (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)
 
The court addresses the categories of documents. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 16: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any internal analysis or investigation by YOU or on
YOUR behalf regarding the DRIVABILITY DEFECT in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This request shall be interpreted to
include, but not be limited to, any such investigation to determine the root
cause of such DRIVABILITY DEFECT, any such investigation to design a permanent
repair procedure for such DRIVABILITY DEFECT, any such investigation into the
failure rates of parts associated with such DRIVABILITY DEFECT, any cost
analysis for implementing a proposed repair procedures, any savings analysis
not implementing a proposed repair procedures, etc.]
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 17: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any communications YOU have had regarding DRIVABILITY
DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 18: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any decision to issue any notices, letters,
campaigns, warranty extensions, technical service bulletins and recalls
concerning the DRIVABILITY DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 19: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and warranty claims
related to DRIVABILITY DEFECT, in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including but not limited to any databases in YOUR
possession with information from dealers, service departments, parts
departments, or warranty departments, and all documents concerning YOUR response
to each complaint, claim or reported failure
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 20: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of DRIVABILITY DEFECT
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 21: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any fixes for DRIVABILITY DEFECT in vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
The
court generally adheres to a policy limiting discovery to the make, model and
year. The complaint identifies the claims involve defects from the body,
powertrain, safety, electrical, braking, and, noise systems. It remains unclear
how the term “drivability defect” applies to said alleged issues. The court
therefore finds the term “drivability defect” constitutes an exceptionally
broad term, which permeates the subject outstanding items, and invites dispute well
beyond the scope of the alleged vehicle defects. [See Declaration of Noreelie
Panhwar.] (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224–225;
(Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
424, 431.) The terms also support the propriety and trade secret
objections. 
 
It
remains unclear as to whether refinement occurred through review of the already
produced documents, or Person Most Qualified (PMQ) depositions, or whether
further determinations remains outstanding.  Other than reference to “trouble code” based
repairs, brake sensor and suspension noises, the summary arguments of Plaintiff
insufficiently justifies the broad base of the request. [Panhwar Decl.] The
court cannot allow the subject discovery to proceed as phrased. The court in no
way supports discovery in order to allow consumer law firms to build databases
with court ordered discovery of material beyond the scope of the actual pending
claims. 
 
The
court assumes familiarity between counsel, and invites the parties to further
meet and confer in order to refine the terms to items originating from the
trouble codes as they relate to specific systems. Any and all agreed upon terms
shall remain limited to make, model, year. The scope of discovery may also
include negotiated search terms. Upon agreement to terms, General Motors must also
provide a privilege log. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c).)
 
The
court cannot grant the motion as presented, but also declines to outright deny
the motion if outstanding discovery, or at least a privilege log remains to be
generated. The court therefore continues the hearing in order to preserve the
timeliness of the motion and allow the parties to refine any issues, should
further continuance be required. The court will continue the hearing to a new
date. Nine (9) court days before the new hearing date both sides may submit an
updated brief of no more than five (5) pages updating the court as to the
status of the dispute. If all issues are resolved, the court invites Plaintiff
to take the motion off-calendar. If the issue remains on-calendar, the court
advises the parties to follow the guidelines adhered to by the court. Thus, any
dispute must be specifically articulated whereby the court can potentially
craft a form of relief, without creating an open ended request. 
 
Trial
set for February 18, 2025.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.