 Case Number:  22STCV11454    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 9-24-24
Case # 22STCV11454
Trial Date: 11-4-24 c/f 7-1-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance
Group, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Matthew Garza, et al.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Matthew S. Garza was a Major League Baseball
(MLB) pitcher for 12 years. Plaintiff’s career with a MLB team ended after the
2017 season, due to a pitching arm shoulder injury, which was not successfully
repaired following surgery well enough to return to MLB pitching form. 
 
Prior to the injury causing event, Plaintiff procured a
ten million disability insurance policy from defendant Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London Subscribing to the Policy (Lloyd’s). Plaintiff maintains the
policy was procured and submitted by defendant International Specialty
Insurance Services, Inc. (ISI), Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP and
NKSFB, LLC (collectively NKSFB). Defendants Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group,
LLC, and Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Paradigm and Gilbert) assisted Plaintiff
in providing information in support of the application, though the application
admittedly omitted certain information at the time of submission. Following
submission of the claim to Lloyd’s, the claim was denied based at least in part
on the provision of an incomplete application. 
 
On Jul 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of
Duties as an Insurance Broker. The case was initially filed in Fresno County,
and transferred to Los Angeles County on April 5, 2022, following a successful
motion to change venue. Lloyd’s also previously filed a cross-complaint against
Paradigm and Gilbert for Fraud, Negligence, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Comparative Fault/Contribution. 
 
On May 11, 2022, the case was reassigned from complex
court to Department 68, and independent calendar court. On July 26, 2022, the
court granted the motion to strike the cross-complaint with leave to amend.
Lloyd’s filed its first amended cross-complaint on August 11, 2022. On December
6, 2022, the court denied the motion to strike the first amended
cross-complaint. 
 
On December 21, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff leave
to file a first amended complaint. The amended pleading added in defendants
NKSFB and new causes of action. On the same date, the first amended complaint
for Breach of Contract (first and fourth causes of action), Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Duties as an Insurance
Brokers, Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Breach
of Fiduciary Duties, was filed. 
 
On March 23, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel
arbitration. On March 29, 2203, the court overruled the demurrer to the first
amended complaint, and a motion for sanctions, both brought by Gilbert
Insurance Services. 
 
On December 14, 2023, the court granted the motion of
International Specialty Insurance Services, Inc. to interplead $133,624.68 in
funds with the court.
 
RULING: Denied.
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
·        
The court take notice of the filed motions, but
cannot take notice of any content for the truth of the matter asserted in a
party submitted pleading. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
Declaration of Dennis Gilbert
·        
Number 1: Overruled/Not Relied upon (Code Civ.
Proc. 437c, subd. (q)
·        
Numbers 2, 3, 6, 7: Sustained.
·        
Numbers 4, 5, 8: Overruled.
 
Declaration of Virginia Harty
·        
Numbers 9-10, 13, 15: Sustained.
·        
Numbers 11, 12, 14: Overruled.
 
Declaration of John Hochhausler: Sustained.
 
Defendant Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group, LLC
(Paradigm – Gilbert) brings a motion for summary judgment on the complaint of
Plaintiff Matthew Garza on grounds of unclean hands barring the entire
complaint. Defendant maintains the provision of signatures without filling in
any information and/or reliance on the business managers to complete the
insurance application bars any claim for wrongful conduct. Plaintiff in
opposition challenges any showing of unclean hands based on Plaintiff’s
reliance on business managers to complete the insurance policy application.
Plaintiff also challenges the later creation of the Paradigm-Gilbert entity
after execution signatures were provided on the incomplete insurance
application. Plaintiff questions the basis of the subject challenge by the
Paradigm-Gilbert entity. Plaintiff lastly maintains that the unclean hands
defense insufficiently addresses the seven separately articulated bases of
liability against the insurance broker defendants, and Defendant predecessor’s
own conduct in fact constitutes the basis of liability. Plaintiff contends the
application actually submitted to Lloyd’s was based on a revised application
completed by Gilbert with “recycled” signatures, rather than the blank
application with signatures relied upon by Defendant in support of the motion. Paradigm
– Gilbert in reply reiterates the unclean hands defense based on the conduct of
Plaintiff. The reply challenges any basis of reliance on previous practices as
a basis of absolving application of the defense, and describes the “extended
narrative” as a red herring. The “miscellaneous” arguments provide no basis for
denial of the motion. The case law cited in support is sufficiently analogous.
 
The pleadings
frame the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which
the motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
The “Insurance Broker” Defendants, Paradigm, Gilbert, and
ISI, are only named in the third cause of action for Breach of Duties in the
operative first amended complaint. Plaintiff alleges “Paradigm, Gilbert, and
ISI each held themselves out as having expertise in the specialized world of
disability insurance for professional athletes and, as such, owed an additional
duty to use reasonable care, diligence, and judgment in procuring the insurance
requested including the duty to accurately, timely and truthfully submit
information to Lloyd’s on Mr. Garza’s behalf.” [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 97.] 
 
Plaintiff specifically articulates several bases of the
purported breach, including: 
1) improperly allowing Mr. Garza to submit an incomplete
policy application to Lloyd’s; 
2) failing to ensure that Lloyd’s obtained all relevant
medical records during the underwriting process; 
3) failing to check publicly available information to ensure
that Mr. Garza’s injury history was fully and accurately reported to the
Insurers; 
4) failing to perform even a rudimentary search of the
Internet to confirm Mr. Garza’s prior injury history; 
5) failing to properly shepherd Mr. Garza’s claim through
the claims process; 
6) failing to prevent Lloyd’s from conducting improper post
claims underwriting in a transparent attempt to manufacture a basis to deny Mr.
Garza’s claim and rescind the Subject Policy; 
7) as to ISI only, despite agreeing in writing to take it
upon itself to secure “the team medicals [for Mr. Garza] ASAP” during the
procurement process in order to submit a complete and accurate policy
application, ISI failed to obtain any of Mr. Garza’s medical records and ISI
also failed to conduct any of its own investigation into Mr. Garza’s injury
history which, in turn, meant that ISI failed to take steps ensure that Mr.
Garza’s application was complete and accurate when it was submitted to Lloyd’s;
and 
8) as to Paradigm only, improperly advising Mr. Garza to
make certain alleged admissions regarding statements made in the initial and
the updated applications. Paradigm advised Mr. Garza that, by making these
alleged admissions, Lloyd’s would agree to pay his claim, instead Lloyd’s used
those alleged admissions to justify their rescission of the Policy and denial
of the claim. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 98.]
 
The court examines the motion under the seven (7)
articulated claims, which includes the claim as to Paradigm only (ISI is not a
party to the subject motion). In order to succeed, Paradigm Gilbert must
establish application of the unclean hands defense as completely barring all
seven claims. 
 
The parties first dispute whether the equitable defense can
be adjudicated as a matter of law. While the court sits in equity in
determining the application of unclean hands, case law requires “the doctrine
of unclean hands” to be determined as “a question of fact.” (Kendall-Jackson
Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978.) The court
finds no support in the authority presented by Paradigm – Gilbert. 
 
Notwithstanding, the court engages in consideration of the
motion. “Whether the particular misconduct is a bar to the alleged claim for
relief depends on (1) analogous case law, (2) the nature of the misconduct, and
(3) the relationship of the misconduct to the claimed injuries.” (Kendall-Jackson
Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 979.)
 
Paradigm – Gilbert initially supports its position based on citation
paragraph 45 of the first amended complaint: “Mr. Garza signed the blank
application form on or about April 9, 2017, in the clubhouse in Milwaukee. As
part of the application process, it appears that Mr. Garza also executed a
HIPPA Compliant Authorization for Release of Health Related Information (“HIPPA
Waiver”) in favor of Defendant ISI permitting ISI to obtain Mr. Garza’s
otherwise confidential medical records before submitting the policy application
to Defendant Lloyd’s.” Garza testified in deposition to executing the
verification as to the veracity of the effectively blank application, due to
focus on opening week of the Major League Baseball season and assumption of a
request for only signatures required. [See Declaration of Curtis Cole, Deposition
of Matthew Garza, 292:14-29-294:25.] Paradigm – Gilbert also notes the interest
of Plaintiff for a completed policy due to the implications of a career ending
injury. [Id., 271:1-273:1.]
 
It remains undisputed that an application, albeit
incomplete, was submitted to Lloyd’s. Notwithstanding the blank application
returned by Garza, Paradigm – Gilbert maintains no one affiliated with
“Gilbert” provided any consultation or advice. (The court is not relying on the
evidence, but only citing as part of the position in support.) The argument
appears to seek deflection of any liability for the conduct relating to the
incomplete application itself through an assumption that Garza knowingly
submitted an incomplete application only to later discovery inaccuracies on the
form. The result constitutes admitted false statements, thereby equitably
barring any claims against Paradigm – Gilbert.
 
Plaintiff raises a valid defense as to the standing of
Paradigm – Gilbert to challenge the subject action given the admission in the
Gilbert Declaration as to the lack of existence of the Paradigm – Gilbert
entity at the time of the subject conduct. Nothing in the declaration of
Gilbert or Harty in any way addresses any merger of the entities or any
assumption of the potential claims. The court therefore denies the motion for
failure to present a sufficient basis of standing to establish the basis of the
challenge to assert the defense of unclean hands. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)
 
The submission of the purportedly incomplete and later
admitted inaccurate application can certainly impact the denial of claims by
the insurer, Lloyd’s. (Hailey v. California Physicians' Service (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 452, 465.) Nothing in the claims against Paradigm – Gilbert in
any way seek insurance benefits, and instead alleges breach of duty undertaken
as an insurance broker to acquire said policy, which includes an obligation to
present a sufficiently completed application. 
 
The first element of three-part test requires citation to
analogous case law. (Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court, supra,
76 Cal.App.4th at p. 979.) Nothing in the motion presents any address regarding
the standard for insurance broker liability. The relied upon cases are not
sufficiently analogous. Nationwide Biweekly Administration, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2020) 9 Ca1.5th 279; Mendoza v. Rusega (2008)169 Cal.App.4th 270,
278-79.) The court declines to make the arguments for Paradigm – Gilbert as to
how the conduct of Plaintiff in returning blank, signed applications with
reliance on the broker and business management defendants to review and
coordinate the policy equates to knowingly criminal or tortious conduct thereby
supporting the unclean hands defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Kendall-Jackson
Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court, supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at pp. 979-981;
Blain v. Doctor's Co. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1048, 1060.)
 
The court also finds insufficient articulation and support
under the nature of misconduct element of the claim. Again, any missing
information on the information potentially jeopardized the actual insurance
application, but the process of submitting the incomplete application presents
somewhat separate and independent conduct. Paradigm – Gilbert makes an
insufficient showing linking the conduct of Plaintiff to the subsequent
attempted denial of benefits under the policy by Lloyd’s sufficient to ascribe
any and all liability exclusively to Plaintiff. Even if the court considered
the mere denial of any participation declaration submitted insufficiently
absolves Paradigm – Gilbert on the basis of an unclear hands defense. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior
Court, supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at pp. 982-983; Fibreboard Paper
Products Corp. v. East Bay Union of Machinists, Local 1304, United Steelworkers
of America, AFL-CIO (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 675, 728; see Warren v. Merrill
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 96, 115; Crosstalk Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 648; Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur
Young & Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 820,
846.)
 
On the third prong, relationship of misconduct to injuries,
the court also finds a failure of Paradgigm – Gilbert to establish any basis of
relief. Again, the motion lacks any and all accountability of its own conduct
as alleged in the complaint and instead relies on an unsupported denial and obtuse
deflection back to Plaintiff thereby deflecting the core of the alleged duty to
undertake responsibility for acquisition of the insurance policy. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court,
supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at pp. 984-985.) 
 
The court therefore finds that Paradigm – Gilbert fails to
establish any basis of unclean hands, due to the failure to specifically
address each and every subcategory of liability within the pled cause of action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Even if the court relied on all
evidence, and could rule on the subject defense as a matter of law, the court
still finds triable issues of material fact based on the undertaken duties of
each and every responsible for the presentation of a completed application for
purposes of obtaining insurance coverage, the role of Plaintiff, potential
breach of duties in failing to assist and contact the client, and even in
potential argument based on pari delicto considerations based on potential participation
in the provision of misrepresentations to the application. [Deposition of
Garza; Declarations of Gilbert and Hardy.]
 
The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
The court declines to consider any request for sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. The court declines to consider
“motions” placed in responsive pleadings rather than a required separately
filed pleading. 
 
Four motions for summary judgment on calendar for October 3,
10, and 15, 2024. Trial remains set for November 4, 2024.
 
Paradigm – Gilbert to give notice.
 