 Case Number:  24STCV12333    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
19, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Elgie Luse v. Ford Motor Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV12333
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Ford Motor Company and Cerritos Ford Inc. dba Norm Reeves Ford Superstore
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Elgie
Luse
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND 
 
            On May 15,
2024, plaintiff Elgie Luse (Plaintiff) filed this Song-Beverly action against defendants
Ford Motor Company (FMC) and Cerritos Ford Inc. dba Norm Reeves Ford Superstore
(Dealership) (collectively, Defendants). 
In 202o, Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Ford F150 (the Vehicle) with an
express warranty.  As alleged in the
Complaint, the Dealership failed to repair defects which presented in the
Vehicle and FMC concealed the defects at the time of Plaintiff’s purchase.  The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2) Violation of
Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3) Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability, (5) Negligent Repair, and (6) Fraudulent Inducement -
Concealment.  The fifth cause of action
is the only cause of action asserted against the Dealership.
 
            On June 17,
2024, Defendants filed this Demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action.  
 
On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  
 
Defendants did not file a reply.
            
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) 
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can
only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
            Defendants
demur to the fifth and sixth cause of action. 
The court addresses the demurrers in turn.
 
A.   
Negligent Repair (5th
Cause of Action)
 
The fifth cause of action for negligent repair is based on
the following allegations:  Plaintiff delivered
the vehicle to the Dealership for substantial repair on at least one occasion (Complaint,
¶ 70); the Dealership owed a duty to use ordinary care and skill in storage,
preparation and repair of the Vehicle in accordance with industry standards (Complaint,
¶ 71); the Dealership breached that duty (Complaint, ¶ 72); and the
Dealership’s negligent breach of its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate
cause of Plaintiff’s damages.  (Complaint,
¶ 73.)       
 
The Dealership argues the negligent repair claim fails for
two reasons: (1) the economic loss rule bars Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim;
and (2) Plaintiff does not allege the element of damages.  The court agrees in considerable part with the
Dealership’s second argument.  
 
Here, Plaintiff fails to specify the type of damages she
suffered because of the Dealership’s alleged negligence in either her complaint
or her opposition brief.   Plaintiff is required to allege
specific facts showing that the Dealership’s negligence caused or contributed
to a non-economic injury.  (See County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318 318 [“economic loss alone,
without physical injury, does not amount to type of damage that causes
negligence cause of action to accrue]; see also Seely v. White Motor Co. (1965)
63 Cal.2d 9, 17-18; Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (Robinson).) 
The negligent repair claim is not sufficiently pleaded.
 
Further, because it is not clear what damages Plaintiff
suffered as a result of the Dealership’s negligence, the court cannot determine
the merits of the Dealership’s economic loss argument.  
 
The economic loss rule provides that, “[i]n general, there
is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’
meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” (Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.)¿¿¿ “California
Courts define economic loss as ‘damages for inadequate value, costs of repair
and replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of profits—without
any claim of personal injury or damages to other property.’”  (Department
of Water & Power v. ABB Power T & D Co. (C.D .Cal. 1995) 902
F.Supp. 1178, 1186, fn. 4.)  The economic loss rule requires a purchaser
to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations unless she can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.  (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp.
988, 993 [economic loss rule prevents law of contract and law of tort “from
dissolving one into the other”].)
 
There exist four (4) exceptions to the economic loss rule
barring recovery in tort in a breach of contract action: (1) where the breach
of duty directly caused physical injury; (2) where there was a breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts; (3) for
wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy; or (4) where the
contract was fraudulently induced.  (See Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552; see Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp.
989-990.) 
 
Plaintiff argues an exception to the economic recovery loss
rule applies to Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim.  However, without properly identifying
Plaintiff’s damages, the arguments are undeveloped.  For instance, Plaintiff argues the economic
loss rule does not necessarily bar recovery in tort for damage a defective
product (e.g., a window) causes to other portions of a larger product (e.g., a
house) into which the former has been incorporated.  However, there are no allegations of a defect
in the Vehicle that caused damage to another portion of the Vehicle.  The court sustains the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action.
 
B.    
Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment (6th
Cause of Action)
 
The Sixth Cause of Action is for Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment.¿ Fraud based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.”¿ (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.¿(2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311 (Bigler-Engler); CACI No. 1901.)¿ An essential
element of intentional concealment includes the duty to disclose, which must be
based upon a transaction, or a special relationship, between plaintiff and
defendant.¿ (Id.¿at p. 314.) “[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure
or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a
legal duty to disclose them.’”¿ (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845 (OCM Principal).)¿ 
 
FMC attacks Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim.¿
Because the court finds that FMC’s argument as to the second element, duty to
disclose, is dispositive, the court does not address FMC’s other challenges to
the fraud claim.¿ FMC argues it had no duty to disclose because there was no
direct transactional relationship between Plaintiff and FMC.¿ 
¿ 
In¿Bigler-Engler, the plaintiff, Engler, injured her
knee and had surgery.¿ After the surgery, the doctor recommended use of an
“ice” machine.¿ The doctor prescribed the Polar Care 500 ice machine which was
manufactured by defendant Breg, Inc (Breg).¿ The ice machine made things worse
and caused additional injuries.¿ Engler sued Breg for intentional concealment.¿
The jury returned a verdict in plaintiff’s favor.¿ The Court of Appeal reversed
finding that Breg did not owe Engler a duty of care. The¿Bigler-Engler¿Court
described the circumstances that give rise to a duty of care as follows:
¿ 
¿ 
“There
are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.] Where, as
here, a fiduciary relationship does not exist between the parties, only the
latter three circumstances may apply. These three circumstances, however,
presuppose the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and
defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise. [Citation.] A duty to disclose
facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the
duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and
patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.¿
[Citation.]” 
¿ 
(Bigler-Engler,¿supra, at p. 311 [cleaned
up].) “Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between
the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.”¿ (Id.¿at p. 312.)¿ 
¿ 
Here, Plaintiff does not point to any allegation showing or
otherwise suggesting direct dealings between FMC and Plaintiff.¿ Indeed,
Plaintiff appears to concede as much by arguing that a direct transactional
relationship is not required to give rise to a manufacturer’s duty to disclose
material facts.  For this proposition,
Plaintiff cites¿OCM¿Principal,¿supra,¿157 Cal.App.4th
835.¿ Plaintiff misstates¿OCM Principal.¿
There, the Court of Appeal stated, “Where . . . there is no fiduciary
relationship, the duty to disclose generally presupposes a relationship
grounded in “some sort of transaction between the parties.” ¿(OCM Principal,
at p. 859.)¿ This principle is consistent with¿Bigler-Engler. ¿ 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Based on the foregoing, the demurrers to the Fifth and Sixth
Causes of Action are SUSTAINED.  Leave to
amend is GRANTED as to the fifth cause of action only.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file the First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
            Defendants
to give notice.
 
Dated:   November 19,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            