  Case Number:  21STCP02576    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  26   
Folke v. Pulliam, et al.PETITION
TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD
(Bus. & Profs. Code § 6200, et seq.;
CCP § 1281, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Duane R. Folke’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award is DISMISSED. RESPONDENT’S REQUEST TO CONFIRM THE ARBITRATION AWARD IS
GRANTED. JUDGMENT IS TO BE ENTERED IN THE AMOUNT OF $11,700.00, PLUS THE FILING
FEE OF $585.00, AND INTEREST AT THE MAXIMUM LEGAL RATE FROM THE DATE OF
PAYMENT, FEBRUARY 5, 2019. RESPONDENT IS TO FILE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 30
DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On August 9, 2021, Petitioner Duane R. Folke (“Petitioner”)
filed the instant Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award against Respondent Carol
Pulliam (“Respondent”). Respondent filed a response on November 29, 2021. The
Petition initially came for hearing on December 13, 2021 and was continued to
January 19, 2022 to allow Petitioner to file a proof of service demonstrating
proper service of the Petition. (Minute Order, 12/13/21.) On January 12, 2022,
Petitioner filed a “Response to Order to Show Cause Showing that Respondent was
Timely Served with Extenuating Circumstances.”
 
On January 19, 2022, the hearing was again continued to
allow Petitioner to file and serve a declaration attaching any evidence in
support of the Petition. (Minute Order, 01/19/22.) On March 17, 2022,
Petitioner filed another supplemental response to the order to show cause. At
the hearing on March 28, 2022, the Court heard oral argument, denied the
Petition to Vacate, and confirmed the arbitration award. (Minute Order,
03/28/22.) 
 
On April 26, 2022, Petitioner filed a notice of appeal. The
Appellate Division issued a ruling on October 6, 2023 reversing the trial
court’s ruling and ordering the hearing on the Petition to be reset.
(Remittitur, filed 12/08/23.) The Appellate Division adopted the trial court’s
findings that (1) 100 days from the date of service of the Award was August 20,
2021; (2) the arbitration award was served by the arbitrator on May 12, 2021;
and (3) the Petition had to be filed and served no later than August 20, 2021.
(See Minute Order, 03/28/22, p. 4 at ¶5; Remittitur, filed 10/06/23.) The
Appellate Division ordered the trial court “to determine, in the first
instance, whether Folke is entitled to equitable relief from the failure to
timely serve the petition, in a manner consistent with the law and this
opinion.” (Remittitur, 10/06/23, p. 12:3-7.)
 
The Petition was reset for hearing in the trial court on
November 28, 2023, however, on that date, the action was transferred from
Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse to Department 26 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. 
 
Discussion
 
Timeliness of the Petition to Vacate Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1288 and Grounds for Equitable Tolling
 
“A petition to confirm an award shall be served and filed
not later than four years after the date of service of a signed copy of the
award on the petitioner. A petition to vacate an award or to correct an award
shall be served and filed not later than 100 days after the date of the service
of a signed copy of the award on the petitioner.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.) “A response
requesting that an award be vacated or that an award be corrected shall be
served and filed not later than 100 days after the date of service of a signed
copy of the award upon: (a) The respondent if he was a party to the
arbitration; or (b) The respondent's representative if the respondent was not a
party to the arbitration.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1288.2)  
 
“Section 1288.2 speaks only to obligations of the litigants
and makes no reference at all to the power of the courts — in other words, the
section reads as an ordinary statute of limitations.”  (Law Finance Group, LLC v. Key (2023)
14 Cal.5th 932, 950.)  “In short, absent
clearer evidence of legislative intent, we presume that the Legislature did not
intend to limit the fundamental jurisdiction of the courts by enacting the
100-day deadline to challenge an arbitral award under section 1288.2.”  (Id.)  Thus, the 100-day deadline “is a
nonjurisdictional statute of limitations that is subject to equitable tolling
and equitable estoppel.”  (Id.
at 959-960.)  
 
Equitable tolling is a judicially
created, nonstatutory doctrine that suspends or extends a statute of
limitations as necessary to ensure fundamental practicality and fairness. The
doctrine applies occasionally and in special situations to soften the
harsh impact of technical rules which might otherwise prevent a good faith
litigant from having a day in court. 
Courts draw authority to toll a filing deadline from their inherent
equitable powers — not from what the Legislature has declared in any particular
statute.  
 
(Saint Francis Memorial Hospital v. State Department of
Public Health (2020) 9 Cal.5th 710, 719–720) [emphasis added].)
“[E]quitable tolling today applies when three elements are present: (1) timely
notice, and (2) lack of prejudice, to the defendant, and (3) reasonable and
good faith conduct on the part of the plaintiff.”  (Id. at 724.) “When considering whether a plaintiff provided timely
notice, courts focus on whether the party's actions caused the defendant to be
fully notified within the statute of limitations of plaintiffs’ claims and
their intent to litigate.”  (Id.
at 726.)  The “core focus” of the
prejudice analysis is “whether application of the equitable tolling would
prevent the defendant from defending a claim on the merits.”  (Id. at 728.)  
 
Finally, the element of “reasonable and good faith conduct”
“encompass[es] two distinct requirements: 
A plaintiff’s conduct must be objectively reasonable and subjectively in
good faith.”  (Id. at
729.)  “An analysis of reasonableness
focuses not on a party’s intentions or the motives behind a party's actions,
but instead on whether that party's actions were fair, proper, and sensible in
light of the circumstances.” (Ibid.) A party seeking equitable
tolling “must satisfy a similar standard: 
It must demonstrate that its late filing was objectively reasonable
under the circumstances.”  (Ibid.
at 729.) “Good faith pivots instead on a party's intentions. It is a test
ordinarily used to describe that state of mind denoting honesty of purpose,
freedom from intention to defraud, and, generally speaking, being faithful to
one's duty or obligation.”  (Id.)
 
            (1)  Timely notice.  “When considering whether a plaintiff
provided timely notice, courts focus on whether the party’s actions caused the
defendant to be fully notified within the statute of limitations of
plaintiffs’ claims and their intent to litigate.”  (Saint Francis Memorial Hospital, supra,
9 Cal.5th at 726.)  Therefore,
Petitioner must establish that Respondent was fully notified of Petitioner’s
intent to vacate the Award and his intent to litigate by August 20, 2021, the
expiration of the 100-day period. Petitioner, however, fails to present any
evidence indicating that Respondent had notice of Petitioner’s intent to vacate
the Award by that date.  Petitioner
testifies that he mailed a copy of the Petition to Vacate on August 17, 2021 to
Respondent’s former counsel, Wole Akineymei. 
(Folke Supp. Dec. filed 03/17/22, ¶2.) On September 16, 2021, Akineymei
indicated that he had not represented Respondent since the end of the
arbitration in May 2021 and he was not authorized to accept service on her
behalf.  (Id. at ¶2(d).)
Respondent filed an opposition indicating actual notice of the action on
November 29, 2021, nearly three months after expiration of the August 20, 2021
deadline. Respondent’s opposition, therefore, is not evidence of “timely
notice” of Petitioner’s intent to vacate the arbitration award or of his intent
to litigate the issue.  
 
The Court finds Petitioner has failed to establish the
“timely notice” element of the equitable tolling doctrine.  This alone is grounds to deny Petitioner’s
request for equitable tolling of the 100-day deadline.  
 
            (2)  Lack of prejudice to the defendant.  “Whether application of the equitable
tolling would prevent the defendant from defending a claim on the merits.”  Application of equitable tolling would not
prevent Respondent from defendant on the merits. Here, Respondent filed an
opposition and prevailed in the initial proceedings.  (Id. at 728.) This satisfies
the “lack of prejudice” element of the equitable tolling doctrine.
 
            (3)  Reasonable and good faith conduct.  “A plaintiff’s conduct must be objectively
reasonable and subjectively in good faith.” 
(Id. at 729.)  “An
analysis of reasonableness focuses not on a party's intentions or the motives
behind a party's actions, but instead on whether that party’s actions were
fair, proper, and sensible in light of the circumstances.”  (Ibid.) Petitioner filed the
Petition on August 9, 2021, only 11 days before the 100-day limitations period
expired. Petitioner then waited an additional eight days before even attempting
service on Respondent’s former counsel. 
Petitioner did not verify Respondent’s address or continued
representation by Akineymei before the attempt at service on August 17,
2021.  Petitioner only attempted to
locate Respondent’s proper service address after Akineymei’s September 16, 2021
letter indicating that he was not counsel of record for Respondent. (Folke
Supp. Dec., filed 03/17/22, ¶2(g) and (f).) 

 
Petitioner did not attempt to inform Respondent or her
former counsel of his intent to seek vacatur of the Award until August 17,
2021, only three days before expiration of the 100-day limitations period.
Petitioner also provides no explanation for delaying to inform Respondent of
his intent to seek vacatur. By waiting until the 97th day of the 100-day
deadline to attempt service without first attempting to verify the proper
service address, the Court finds Petitioner’s actions were not reasonable,
fair, proper, or sensible.  Therefore,
the third element of “reasonable and good faith conduct” is not met.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award is denied as untimely under Code of Civil Procedure section 1288.  Petitioner fails to establish either “timely
notice” or “reasonable and good faith conduct” to support application of
equitable tolling.  
 
Grounds to Vacate the Arbitration Award
 
Even if the Petition were timely under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1288, Petitioner fails to establish grounds to vacate the arbitration
award pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2, subdivision (a)(5). “Subject
to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the award if the court determines any
of the following:…(5) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by
the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence
material to the controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to
the provisions of this title.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., §1286.2, subd. (a)(5).)  
 
[W]hen…an arbitrator exercises
discretion in denying a continuance request, there are two issues to be
resolved in vacatur proceedings. First, the trial court must determine whether
the arbitrator abused his or her discretion by refusing to postpone the hearing
upon sufficient cause being shown. Second, if there was an abuse of discretion,
the trial court must determine whether the moving party suffered substantial
prejudice as a result…Only if the arbitrators abused their discretion and there
was resulting prejudice could the trial court properly vacate the arbitration
award.
 
(SWAB Financial, LLC v. E*Trade Securities, LLC
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1198.) 
Courts will not interfere in an arbitrator's postponement decision if
any reasonable basis exists for the arbitrator's ruling.  (Id. at 1197.) Petitioner fails
to show substantial prejudice from the Arbitrator’s refusal to postpone the
hearing.  Petitioner testifies that he
“had a very difficult time hearing and understanding the Counsel for Ms.
Pulliam, Mr. Akinyemi; and, both following the questioning and, responding fully
to the questions posed.”  (Petition,
Attachment 10c(2), Folke Dec., ¶6.) 
Petitioner states in a conclusory fashion that “a very bad result
occurred directly as a result of not being able to provide all the information
and testimony necessary to show work was done related to the underlying
matter.”  (Id. at ¶7.) However,
Petitioner fails to identify what precisely he was unable to present due to the
failure to postpone, or what specific prejudice resulted from the refusal to
postpone. Also, the arbitration award itself indicates that Folke attended the
hearing and fully participated, testifying at length about the work he
performed.  (Peti., Attachment 6(c) at p.
3:23-28.)
 
The Court finds the Arbitrator did not abuse his discretion
in refusing to postpone the hearing. 
Petitioner submitted a doctor’s note dated April 21, 2021 indicating
that Petitioner was under his care for cancer treatment since December 2019 and
was “preparing for several procedures for medical issues and doctor’s
appointments.  As such, Mr. Folke is
unable to participate in any legal proceedings until August 21, 2021.”  (Petition, Attachment 10c(2), Folke Dec., Ex.
1.) Petitioner fails to submit any evidence of the Arbitrator’s response to his
request for a continuance. Petitioner therefore fails to establish that the
denial was an abuse of discretion. Moreover, Respondent attaches the
Arbitrator’s response to Petitioner request for postponement.  (Opposition filed on November 29, 2021, Ex.
B, PDF p. 12/20.)  The Arbitrator indicated
that he was denying the request, because the doctor’s note was vague as to what
Petitioner could and could not do.  (Id.)  The Arbitrator also indicated that
Petitioner’s participation in the arbitration proceeding thus far (sending
emails and discussing the matter) “demonstrated his ability to articulate his
position and operate his computer.  This
hearing should not require much more ability than what he has already
demonstrated he has.”  (Id.)  The Arbitrator provided a reasonable basis
for denying the request for continuance and the decision was neither arbitrary nor
capricious.  
 
Therefore, the Petition to Vacate is denied on substantive
grounds, as well.  Petitioner fails to
demonstrate that the Arbitrator’s refusal to postpone the matter was an abuse
of discretion and that he was substantially prejudiced by the refusal.  
 
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
 
Respondent requests that the Court confirm the arbitration
award. (11/29/21 Response, pp. 2-3.) “A response to a petition under this
chapter may request the court to dismiss the petition or to confirm, correct or
vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.2.) The Petition includes a copy of
the arbitration award, which sets forth that the attorney-client fee
arbitration was conducted pursuant to Business and Professions Code section
6200, et seq., as well as the name of the neutral arbitrator as required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1285.4. (Pet., ¶ 6, Exh. 2.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.6 provides that: “The
neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party to the
arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided in the
agreement.” Here, the award includes a proof of service demonstrating the award
was served on the parties on May 12, 2021 via first-class mail, not certified
or registered mail. (Pet., ¶ 6, Exh. 2.) Neither party disputes the neutral
arbitrator served the arbitration award on May 12, 2021. Thus, the Court finds
the requirements of Section 1283.6 satisfied.
 
Lastly, a party may seek a court judgment confirming an
arbitration award by filing and serving a petition no more than four years, but
not less than 10 days, after the award is served. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1288,
1288.4.) Here, both the Petition and response were filed at least ten days, but
no more than four years, after a copy of the award was initially served on May
12, 2021. Therefore, Respondent’s request to confirm the arbitration award is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner Duane R. Folke’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award is DISMISSED. RESPONDENT’S REQUEST TO CONFIRM THE ARBITRATION AWARD IS
GRANTED. JUDGMENT IS TO BE ENTERED IN THE AMOUNT OF $11,700.00, PLUS THE FILING
FEE OF $585.00, AND INTEREST AT THE MAXIMUM LEGAL RATE FROM THE DATE OF
PAYMENT, FEBRUARY 5, 2019. RESPONDENT IS TO FILE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 30
DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 