 Case Number:  22STCV10827    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  JULIANA PAYNE,Plaintiff, vs. NAIMA RICHARDSON, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV10827 Hearing Date:  June 21, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PLAINTIFF JULIANA PAYNE’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF THE OCTOBER 2, 2023 ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT EVERDYKE’S MOTIONS TO SET ASIDE AND VACATE DEFAULT AND TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for defamation and harassment. The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges as follows. Plaintiff Juliana Payne (“Plaintiff”) is a children’s book author and filmmaker. (FAC ¶ 4.) Through her work, Plaintiff became acquainted with Defendant Naima Richardson, A.K.A. Kitty Bradshaw (“Richardson”). (FAC ¶ 5.) Plaintiff hosted Richardson on Plaintiff’s Twitch stream. (FAC ¶ 9.) Shortly thereafter, Richardson’s behavior toward Plaintiff changed. (FAC ¶ 14.) On April 1, 2021, Richardson hosted a Twitch Stream on which Richardson made numerous malicious statements of purported facts about Plaintiff that Richardson knew to be false. (FAC ¶ 17.) Richardson began to regularly post on social media that Plaintiff was stalking Richardson. (FAC ¶ 20.) Richardson has continued to harass and defame Plaintiff, despite Plaintiff’s attempts to rebut the information. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On March 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Complaint asserting six causes of action:1. Harassment;2. Invasion of Privacy – False Light;3. Defamation;4. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;5. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and, 6. Injunctive Relief.  DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for the Court to reconsider its October 2, 2023 order granting Defendant Everdyke’s motions to set aside and vacate default and to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent part:  “(a) When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. (b) A party who originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion.  …(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a), (b), (e).)  A motion for reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.) However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different information earlier…”].)  A disagreement with a ruling is not a new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) This motion was filed on November 2, 2023, a month after the Court granted Everdyke’s motions and mailed notice of the order to each party. Service was deemed complete five calendar days after mailing, meaning service was complete on October 7, 2023. Plaintiff’s deadline to file this motion was October 17, 2023. Plaintiff’s motion is untimely.Even if the motion was timely, Plaintiff fails to allege new facts, law, or other circumstance which would justify reconsideration. The Court previously granted Everdyke’s motions because he is a resident of Nevada, the FAC makes no allegations linking Everdyke with California, and because Plaintiff failed to meet her burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are met. Plaintiff now moves for reconsideration, arguing that (1) Everdyke voluntarily participated as a streamer on Twitch, which is a California company and agreed to subject himself to California jurisdiction, (2) Everdyke streamed to a global audience, including to users in California, (3) Everdyke’s streams attracted viewers from California and targeted a California audience, and (4) Everdyke had substantial interactions with California viewers. Plaintiff testifies that she and Everdyke are affiliate streamers on Twitch who earn money from subscriptions, ads, and bit revenue. (Payne Decl., ¶¶3-4.) Users must agree to accept the terms and conditions set forth by Twitch. (Id., ¶5.) Although Payne testifies she attached a copy of the Twitch streamer agreement, no agreement was attached.The Court originally granted Everdyke’s motion in part because Plaintiff had the burden to show that the Court had personal jurisdiction over Everdyke. Payne failed to oppose Everdyke’s motions. Now, Plaintiff fails to show she was diligent in this matter and fails to explain why her arguments could not have been presented earlier. Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that she is a Twitch streamer. Therefore, Plaintiff had access to the Twitch streamer agreement and could have presented it earlier when she had the opportunity to oppose Everdyke’s motions.Additionally, although Plaintiff asserts that Everdyke targeted a California audience and had substantial interactions with California users, Plaintiff fails to provide any evidence of these facts. Even if she did provide evidence of these facts, Plaintiff again fails to explain why these facts could not have been presented earlier. DATED: June 21, 2024                                                                     ________________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 