  Case Number:  21STCV35370    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  BOW TIE REALTY & INVESMENT, INC.;  Plaintiff,  vs.  CHUNG SOONKYO, LLC, et al.;   Defendants.  Case No.:  21STCV35370¿  Hearing Date:  June 21, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION FILED BY DEFENDANT CAROLINE LEEDefendant Lee’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis action seeks to enforce a prior judgment rendered in favor of plaintiff and, in addition, involves allegations of fraudulent transfers meant to circumvent enforcement of said prior judgment.  On September 27, 2021, plaintiff Bow Tie Realty & Investment, Inc. (“Plaintiff”), filed the instant action’s Complaint against defendants Chung Soonkyo, LLC, Comet Hyesung, LLC, and Caroline S. Lee (collectively, the “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraudulent Transfer; (3) Civ. Code section 3412; and (4) Aiding and Abetting. Prior to the instant action, Plaintiff obtained two separate court judgments in its favor against Defendant Caroline Lee (“Lee”). On September 16, 2019, the court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff against Defendant Lee in the amount of $672,892.19 in LASC Case No. BC697147, a case captioned Caroline S. Lee v. Jong Han Lee, et al. (the “First Action”). A court trial was held in Dept. 30 before Hon. Barbara Scheper from August 27, 2019 through August 29, 2019, resulting in said judgment, including on a cause of action for fraud, arising out of Lee’s fraudulent inducement to enter a contract. On April 14, 2020, Plaintiff filed LASC Case No. 20STCV14403, a case captioned Bowtie Realty & Investment v. Caroline Lee, et al. (the “Second Action”). Plaintiff claims it filed the Second Action to enforce the judgment arising out of the First Action. Defendant Lee then filed a cross-complaint in the Second Action against Plaintiff and its counsel of record, Douglas Chadwick Biggins (“Biggins”), alleging unfair debt collections/harassment.1 Plaintiff and Biggins subsequently filed motions to strike (anti-SLAPP) against Lee’s cross-complaint. On January 21, 2021, the court granted the anti-SLAPP motions filed by cross-defendants Biggins, and Plaintiff striking the cross-complaint filed by Defendant Lee in its entirety.  On February 11, 2021, Plaintiff filed a memorandum of costs in the amount of $1,403.69 to which no motion to tax was filed. On May 5, 2021, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion for attorney fees, and awarded Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees in the amount of $45,500.00 as the prevailing defendant on the anti-SLAPP motion per CCP, section 425.16(c)(1). On June 21, 2021, the court entered a judgment (the “Judgment”) in favor of Plaintiff against Defendant Lee in the amount of $46,903.69 ($45,500.00 + $1,403.69 (costs)).  On June 22, 2021, Plaintiff applied for and received an abstract of judgment. (See Exhibits ISO of Motion, Exh. 5.) In response to the Judgment, on August 18, 2021, Defendant Lee filed her notice of appeal per CCP, section 904.1(a)(2). (See Exhibits ISO of Motion, Exh. 6.) Subsequently, on September 27, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant action in an attempt to enforce the Judgment. The Complaint claims that Defendant Lee has since engaged in fraudulent transfers meant to circumvent Plaintiff’s efforts to enforce the Judgment. One such transfer was made on or about July 9, 2020 (after the Second Action was filed) transferring real property from Lee to Chung Soonkyo, LLC, which appears to be a Limited Liability Company owed by Lee. As a result, Plaintiff seeks a judicial finding/declaratory relief to establish that the latter transfer, among others, is void. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On January 2, 2024, the Court conducted a court trial and found in favor of Plaintiff. Defendants failed to appear for trial. Plaintiff mailed notice of the order on the same day. On January 2, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of removal to federal court.On March 11, 2024, Defendant Lee filed this motion for reconsideration.On March 25, 2024, the United States District Court, Central District of California filed a notice of remand. On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion for reconsideration.DISCUSSION Defendant Lee moves for the Court to reconsider its January 2, 2024 order after court trial finding in favor of Plaintiff on the grounds that (1) the Court denied Lee her constitutional right to jury trial, (2) Lee did not waive jury trial, and (3) the Court improperly denied Lee’s December 28, 2023 ex parte motion to continue trial and accommodation request. Lee also contends that the Court violated the California Code of Judicial Ethics. Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent part:  “(a) When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. (b) A party who originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion.  …(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a), (b), (e).)  A motion for reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.) However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different information earlier…”].)  A disagreement with a ruling is not a new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) Lee fails to allege new facts, law, or other circumstance which would justify reconsideration. Lee first argues that the Court improperly denied Lee’s request for a jury trial. Lee alleges the California Constitution does not permit involuntary waiver of a jury trial. However, a civil litigant’s right to a jury trial may be waived as prescribed by statute, such as by failing to appear at trial. (Cal. Const., art. I, section 16, Code Civ. Proc., section 631(f)(1).) Here, trial was originally calendared as a jury trial. Thereafter, Lee failed to appear for trial. Lee waived her right to a jury trial because she failed to appear for trial. Lee next argues that the Court improperly denied her ex parte application filed on December 26, 2023 to continue trial. Lee argues she required treatment for her blindness and that the Court should have resolved any doubts as to her medical condition prior to issuing a denial. However, as the Court noted in its 1/2/24 Minute Order, Lee’s Counsel failed to submit admissible evidence supporting Lee’s contention that she required medical treatment or that trial could not move forward with an accommodation. Prior to the December 26, 2023 ex parte application, the Court had continued the trial so that Defendant Lee could address her medical conditions. (10/2/23 Minute Order.) At that time, blindness was not one of the conditions at issue. (9/28/23 Declaration of Defendant Lee.)The December 26th ex parte application did not indicate when Defendant Lee became blind. However, the application itself did not indicate that it was an emergency situation as it stated Defendant Lee would not be seeing any doctor about the situation until her ophthalmologist returned from vacation on January 2, 2024, the day of the trial. The application further asserted that Defendant Lee would likely be hospitalized on January 2.The declaration submitted in support of the ex parte was from Defendant Lee’s counsel. It stated that on December 23, 2023, the counsel’s legal assistant visited Defendant Lee at her home. According to the declaration, Defendant Lee told the legal assistant that she was blind, that she would be seeing her doctor for that blindness on January 2, when the doctor returned from vacation, and that she would likely be hospitalized on January 2.No declaration was submitted by the legal assistant indicating that the legal assistant saw Defendant Lee and believed her to be blind based on his observations. No declaration was submitted by Defendant Lee (such a declaration could have been read to her) indicating that she was blind and when the blindness began. No declaration was submitted by a medical doctor or any type of healthcare worker indicating that Defendant Lee had experienced the sudden onset of blindness or sought treatment for such.   As of today, Defendant Lee still has not provided any evidence regarding her blindness, the date of onset of her blindness, and the course of her treatment for blindness. The declaration filed by Defendant Lee in support of the motion for reconsideration provides no information and references the December 26, 2023 ex parte application and Exhibit 17. Exhibit 17 is a redacted notice of authorization of services dated 2/12/24. It provides no information other than an eye examination was authorized by an insurance provider on 2/12/24.  Following the denial of the ex parte, Defendant Lee did file a late request for accommodation on December 28, 2023. However, Defendant Lee did not bring the request to the Court’s attention either by appearing for trial on 1/2/24 or by filing an ex parte application so that the Court could be made aware of and consider the matter prior to trial. The Court further notes that the request did not specify a particular accommodation. However, had Defendant Lee or her counsel appeared for trial, the specifics of any needed accommodation would have been addressed. The request was not denied or ignored. Defendant Lee and her counsel rendered the request moot by their failure to appear. Defendant Lee also argues that the Court lacked jurisdiction over the matter and improperly proceeded with trial despite Lee filing a notice of removal to federal court. Again, the Court notes that, as with the request for an accommodation, the Court was unaware of the alleged removal prior to trial since neither Defendant Lee nor her counsel appeared (remotely or otherwise) on the day of trial to inform the Court of this development. The Court’s docket reflects that on January 2, 2024 at 9:25 a.m. (five minutes before the scheduled trial time of January 2, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.), Defendant Lee’s counsel filed in the Superior Court a notice of a stay of proceedings based on the commencement of a federal case. The filing attached an unfiled notice of removal. The Court was unaware of this filing at the time of the trial.The Court’s docket reflects that the actual notice of the removal was filed in the Superior Court on January 2, 2024 at 10:20 p.m., after the trial had occurred.Moreover, based on documents filed by Defendant Lee’s counsel, the notice of removal to federal court was not filed in federal court until January 2, 2024 at 9:11 p.m., which also was after the trial had already occurred. (See Notice of Electronic Filing attached at page 21 of 22  to the Declaration in Support of Notice of Initial Filing filed on 1/2/24.) The Court waited until 10:00 a.m. on January 2, 2024 to commence trial and reached out to Defendant’s counsel to inquire as to his whereabouts. The Court received no reply. (1/2/24 Minute Order.)Although courts generally lose jurisdiction over a matter once a notice of removal is filed, a court does not lose jurisdiction where the notice of removal is frivolous or duplicative. (ClipperJet Inc. v. Tyson (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 521, 527.) Here, the case was not removed to federal court at the time of the trial since the notice of removal was not filed in federal court until after the trial had occurred.Moreover, the District Court remanded the case in March 2024, finding that no subject matter jurisdiction existed to justify removal and there was no basis for the removal in the first instance. (3/25/24 Notice of Remand from Federal Court.) The order on remand also noted that Defendant Lee did not file any opposition to the Motion to Remand. Based on all of these facts, the notice of removal was frivolous, and the Court did not lose jurisdiction to proceed with trial even if the case actually had been removed to federal court at the time of trial. For the reasons outlined above, the Court rejects Defendant Lee’s assertion that it has acted improperly or unethically in this matter. Accordingly, Lee’s motion for reconsideration is denied.DATED: June 21, 2024                                                                    _______________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 