 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  C Ani Khachikyan, et al. vs Platinum Transportation
Group, Inc., 22STCV29276
Defendants Platinum Transportation Group, Inc. and Worldwide
Transportation Group, Inc. apply ex parte for an order appointing retired Judge
Elinor Reiner as a discovery referee and staying depositions until a referee is
appointed.  Defendants also request that depositions take place remotely
via Zoom.  Defendants’ ex parte application for an order appointing a
discovery referee is GRANTED in part.  A discovery referee is appointed
for the limited purpose of monitoring depositions where antagonism between the
parties might otherwise prolong the proceedings and frustrate discovery. (CCP §
639(a)(5); Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.922(d).) Until further order of the
Court, the appointment is further limited to the depositions of Defendants’
principals and employees and Defendant Miguel Pacheco.  
 
Retired Judge Elinor Reiner is not appointed at this
time.  If the parties do not agree on the selection of a referee, each
party may submit up to three nominees.  For each nominee, the parties must
provide the information required by CCP §§ 639(d)(4)-(5) and Cal. Rule of
Court, rule 3.922, including the referee’s name, business address, telephone
number, State Bar number and hourly rate.  A resume must also be
provided.  A nominee must be available to monitor depositions in person and
without unnecessary delay.  The parties shall either stipulate to a
referee or file and serve their respective nominees no later than noon on March
21, 2024.  Defendants’ request to conduct depositions remotely is DENIED
without prejudice.  Defendants’ request to stay depositions until a
referee is appointed is GRANTED in part.  The depositions of Defendants’
principals and employees and Defendant Miguel Pacheco, and only those
depositions, are stayed pending the selection of a discovery referee.  Costs
associated with the discovery referee shall be paid by Defendants’ insurance
carrier. 
 
Moving parties to give notice.  