 Case Number:  23NWCV01054    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  C Leslie J. Hanslikdink vs Mike Thompson
Recreational Vehicles, Santa Fe Springs, et al
Case No.: 23NWCV01054
Hearing Date: March 19, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#9 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendants Mike Thompson Recreational Vehicles,
Santa Fe Springs; Grand Design RV, LLC; and 
Bank of the West’s Motion for Leave for File a Cross-Complaint is
GRANTED. 
Defendants to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiff filed the action on April 6, 2023, for violations
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act due to the purchase of a 2022 Grand
Design Momentum on January 3, 2023. 
On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion for Leave
to File a Cross-Complaint. 
As of March 15, 2024, no opposition has been filed to this
motion. 
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §426.30(a) provides, as follows: “Except as
otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been
filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of
action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has
against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert
against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” 
C.C.P. §426.50 provides, as follows: 
“A party who fails to plead a
cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through
oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the
court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert
such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice
to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”
C.C.P. §428.50 provides, as follows: 
(a) A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(b) Any other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial. 
(c) A party shall obtain leave
of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified
in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at
any time during the course of the action.
A cross-complaint is compulsory if it is transactionally
related to the subject matter of the complaint. (C.C.P. §426.10.) “To be
considered a compulsory cross-complaint, a related cause of action must have
existed at the time of the service of [the] answer to [the] complaint.” (Crocker
National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) The late filing
of a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint “absent some
evidence of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion.”
(Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 101.)
“Permission to file a permissive cross-complaint is solely within the trial
court’s discretion.” (Crocker at 864.)
Discussion 
Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint is a compulsory
cross-complaint. The cross-complaint arises out of the same “transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences” as the causes of action
in Plaintiff’s complaint.  The Complaint
alleges that the trailer was delivered with material defects and
nonconformities including a malfunctioning generator. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Defendants
allege the manufacturer of the generator is Cummins, Inc. As such, Defendants
in this action have indemnity and contribution claims against Cummins, Inc.
that all arise out of Plaintiff's purchase of the trailer. These causes of
action existed at the time Defendant filed its answer. (CCP § 426.10.)
In the proposed cross-complaint, Defendant asserts the
following causes of action against Cross-Defendant Cummins, Inc.: (1) Equitable
Indemnity and (2) Contribution. 
As this motion is unopposed, Plaintiff submits no evidence of
prejudice or bad faith. While Defendants’ counsel did delay in filing a motion
attaching the proposed cross-complaint, such a delay is not evidence of bad
faith. Moreover, as discussed above, the late filing of a motion for leave to
file a compulsory cross-complaint “absent some evidence of bad faith is
insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion.” (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. at 101.) Any prejudice to Plaintiff can be mitigated by
a trial continuance.
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.