 Case Number:  20STCV40546    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  C Jesse Simpson vs Loma Linda University Medical
Center, et al.
Case No.: 20STCV40546
Hearing Date: March 19, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#2
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Loma Linda University Shared
Services’ Motion to Transfer Venue is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Loma Linda University Shared Services (“LLUSS”) moves for
an order transferring venue of the instant action to the Superior Court of San
Bernardino County.
Background 
Plaintiff filed his complaint in Los Angeles Superior Court
on October 22, 2020. (Jacobsen Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) The complaint alleges nine
causes of action: assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, false arrest, false imprisonment, violations of Civil Code sections
51.7 and 52.1, negligence, negligent hiring, and negligent supervision. (Id.)
The complaint originally named ten defendants, consisting of two corporate
entities and eight individuals.  Each of
these defendants filed their respective answers between January 28, 2021, and
July 22, 2021. (Id. ¶ 3.) 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the
complaint substituting in LLUSS to replace “Doe 1.” (Jacobsen Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff served the amendment on LLUSS on July 31, 2023. (Id. ¶ 5.)
LLUSS has yet to file its answer.
This is the second time a motion to transfer venue has been
made in this case.  
Legal Standard 
“[T]he superior court in the county where
the defendants or some of them reside at
the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the
action.  If the action is for injury to
the person … the superior court in either the county where the injury occurs …
or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement
of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 395(a).)   
 
On
timely motion, the court must order a transfer of venue “when the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
396b, 397(a).)  A motion to transfer venue on grounds the designated court
is not proper must be filed and served before or at the time of filing an
answer, demurer, or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b.) 
“Venue is determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to
change venue is made.”  (Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d
477, 482; Haurat v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 241
Cal.App.2d 330, 337 [“Venue is determined on the basis of the complaint as it
stands at the time the motion to change is made, and the plaintiff is not
permitted to make a subsequent election of theories by proposed amendments
thereto”].)  
 
The burden is on the moving party to establish facts justifying
the transfer.  (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1982) 31
Cal.3d 921, 928.)  Absent “an affirmative showing to the contrary, the
presumption is that the county in which the title of the action shows that it
is brought is, prima facie, the proper county for the commencement and
trial of the action.”  (Ibid.; Fontaine v. Superior Court¿(2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)  The moving party may submit declarations
containing admissible evidence in support of the motion to transfer
venue.  (Mission Imports, supra, 31 Cal.3d at p. 928.)   
 
Discussion 
1.    Is the
motion timely?
The Court denied a previous Motion to Transfer Venue on
December 7, 2023, on the grounds that it was untimely.  The Court determined that Defendants failed
to explain why they waited two and one-half years (from the filing of the
original complaint) to file the motion.  
It is undisputed that the instant Motion to Transfer Venue
was filed before the deadline for LLUSS to file a responsive pleading, and
before LLUSS filed an answer. Therefore, the motion is timely. (CCP § 396b(a).) 
2.    Is venue
proper in San Bernardino County?  
There is
a long-standing policy of law favoring and safeguarding a defendant's right to
defend in his county of residence and construing section 396b in light of that
policy. “The right of a defendant to have an action brought against him tried
in the county in which he has his residence is an ancient and valuable right,
which has always been safeguarded by statute and is supported by a long line of
judicial decisions. The right of a plaintiff to have an action tried in another
county than that in which the defendant has his residence is exceptional, and,
if the plaintiff would claim such right, he must bring himself within the terms
of the exception.” (Cholakian & Associates
v. Superior Court (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 361, 371.)
 
“Upon
the hearing of the [motion to transfer venue], the court shall, if it appears
that the action or proceeding was not commenced in the proper court, order the
action or proceeding transferred to the proper court.” (CCP § 396b(a), italics
added.) 
 
Here,
LLUSS is a resident of San Bernadino County. 
Plaintiff argues that venue remains proper in this court because Los
Angeles County is where Defendant Martinez resides.  Venue is proper in “the superior court in the
county where the defendants or some of them reside.” (CCP § 395(a).)
Plaintiff contends that Los Angeles County is where Defendant Martinez
currently resides, where he was personally served, and where he has received
his mail and has renewed his license.
 
LLUSS
argues that the relevant inquiry is where Defendant Martinez resided at the
commencement of the action. (CCP § 395(a).) This lawsuit was filed on October
22, 2020.  LLUSS has submitted persuasive
evidence that Defendant Martinez lived in San Bernardino County at that time.
(Martinez Decl., April 24, 2023, ¶ 3; Rankin Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, 16:16-22.) The
evidence submitted by Plaintiff does not prove otherwise.  The Court determines that at the commencement
of this action, Defendant Martinez lived in San Bernardino County and no
defendant lived in Los Angeles County. 
Therefore, venue is proper in San Bernardino County.  
 
3.   
May the Court exercise discretion to
retain the case in Los Angeles County for the convenience of witnesses?
 
Plaintiff
argues that the motion must fail on the merits because it “does not meet the
evidentiary burden required for a discretionary transfer of venue under Code of
Civil Procedure section 397(c).” (Opp., p. 7:4-6, italics added.) Plaintiff
contends that Defendant has failed to present any evidence demonstrating either
the inconvenience of any witness or that the ends of justice would be served by
a change of venue.  
 
However,
a court “will not entertain a motion for change of venue on the ground of
convenience of witnesses when the defendant has not filed an answer, for the
reason that until the issues are joined the court cannot determine what
testimony will be material. [Citation.] For the same reason, a motion for
change of venue cannot be defeated on the ground of convenience of witnesses
until an answer is filed. (Cholakian & Associates v.
Superior Court, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at 368.)
 
Plaintiff opposes transfer
on grounds relevant to discretionary transfer under CCP § 397(c).  Those grounds are not relevant here.  Transfer of venue to San Bernardino County is
mandatory under CCP § 396b(a) because the motion is timely, and no
defendant lived in Los Angeles County at the commencement of the action.  
 
 
Accordingly, LLUSS’ Motion to Transfer
Venue to San Bernardino County is GRANTED.
 