 Case Number:  23TRCV00296    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 18, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00296
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Carlos Matta v.
Metro Services Group, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
Carlos Matta  
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants, Metro Services Group and Justine Herrera 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        April 14, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses from Plaintiff to Respond
to Form Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2)  Motion to Compel Further Responses from Plaintiff to Respond to
Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3) Motion to Compel Further Responses from Plaintiff to Respond
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
¿
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED in part, but
limit to the past 5 years rather than 10 
                                                (2) MOOTED
(3) ARGUE. 
 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On February 1, 2023,
Plaintiff, Carlos Matta (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants,
Metro Service Group, Justine Herrera, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) Disability Discrimination in
Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(a); (2) Failure to Accommodate Disability in
Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m); (3) Failure to Engage in an Interactive
Process in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(n); (4) Failure to Prevent Discrimination
and Harassment, or Retaliation in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k); (5)
Harassment in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(j); (6) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy; and (7) Failure to Provide Rest Periods.
 
On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff notes that it served Defendant with Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. Plaintiff further notes that on November 27, 2023,
Defendant served its response to Plaintiff’s first set of written discovery. 
 
On
January 5, 2024, Plaintiff contends that it served Defendant with a meet and
confer letter in regard to Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s first set of
written discovery. Further, on January 26, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff
with a meet and confer letter. Then, on February 8, 2024, Defendant served
supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s first set of written discovery. On that
same day, Plaintiff notes that it sent a second meet and confer letter on
Defendant. 
 
After
multiple extensions, on April 26, 2024, Plaintiff contends that Defendant sent
another letter responding to Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter. However,
instead of providing substantive responses, Plaintiff notes that Defendant
stated that it will supplement its responses. Further, on April 30, 2024,
Plaintiff sent an email inquiring as to when Defendant would provide
supplemental responses. However, at the time of filing, the motion, Plaintiff
contends that Plaintiff has not received responses. As such, Plaintiff has brought
these motions to compel further responses to his first set of discovery. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed three
motions to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents. On July 5, 2024
Defendants, Metro Services Group and Justine Herrera (collectively
“Defendants”) filed an opposition brief. On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed
reply briefs. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411
            Further,
where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.010
demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP §
2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege
and work product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed
obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents
demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for
failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter
outside court before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response
to the inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular
response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move
for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or
both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive
or incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or
too general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).)    
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Meet and Confer Standard 
 
            The Court finds
that Plaintiff has sufficiently attempted to meet and confer prior to the
filing of the motions to compel. 
 
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories 
 
FROG No. 209.2: This interrogatory seeks Defendant to provide information as
whether in the past 10 years, if any employee filed a civil action against the
employer regarding his or her employment, and subsequently seeks information if
so. 
 
            In opposition,
Defendant objected on the grounds that the request was overbroad in time and
scope and unduly burdensome, seeks information protected by the attorney-client
privilege, and/or work product doctrine, and that it seeks information
protected from disclosure by a constitutional, statutory, or common law privacy
interest of third persons including Defendant’s current or former employees. However,
Defendant also noted that it was willing to provide the information if the
request was limited to the past five (5) years, and information as to
disability discrimination and harassment based on disability based upon the actions
of the same alleged harassers at issue in the present case and/or at the same
building Plaintiff worked in. 
 
            The Court
certainly believes that the information sought by form interrogatory No. 209.2
is relevant to identify potential witnesses or showing motive. See Pinter-Brown
v. Regents of University of California¿(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 55, 96 [“‘me
too’ evidence can be admissible to show intent or motive, which could establish
that the employer’s stated reason was a pretext. [Citation.]”). Nonetheless,
the Court agrees with Defendant that the interrogatory is overbroad.
Accordingly, the Court limits the response to actions filed in California
within the last five years involving the same types of claims alleged in the
Complaint in the instant action.¿ 
            
            Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatory
no. 209.2 is GRANTED subject to the limitations above. 
 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
 
            Next, Plaintiff
is seeking further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 11-22. As to each of
the requests below, Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ response was that it
would produce all non-privileged documents from which the information requested
could  be derived. However, Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant has not produced any documents, nor has it specified the
writings from which the answer may be derived.   
 
            In Defendant’s
opposition brief, it indicates that since Plaintiff’s filing, it has served the
requested supplemental responses to special interrogatories 17-20 and has also produced
the responsive documents pursuant to the stipulated protective order, and has
provided supplemental responses to identify the responsive documents in its
interrogatory responses as to special interrogatories nos. 11-16 and 21-22. As
such, Defendant argues that the motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories is moot. 
 
            The Court finds that these supplemental responses and production
MOOT the substantive portion of the Plaintiff’s motion, but do not moot
monetary sanctions.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents 
 
Plaintiff is also seeking further responses from
Defendant for Request for Production of Documents Nos. 1, 2, 9, 16, 17, 19-36
on the grounds that the information sought is relevant, not privileged, is
necessary for the assessment of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant, and the
requested information is necessary for preparation of the suit for settlement
and/or trial. 
 
In opposition, Defendants contend that the motion is
moot at least in part because it produced documents in response to request nos.
1-2, 9, 17, and 27-28. Further, Defendants argue that Plaintiff is also seeking
a Court order compelling Defendant to produce documents responsive to Request
Nos. 17 and 24, but that documents responsive to those requests have already
been produced and no documents were withheld on the basis of privilege. The
parties are to discuss at oral argument whether this issue has been resolved
between them. Additionally, Defendant contends that its responses to Requests
Nos. 16, 19-23, 25-26, and 31-36 are code-compliant and Defendant has already
produced responsive documents. 
 
This Court is also confused by this motion in
relation to the responses previously provided. It appears that Plaintiff’s main
issue with the responses was that no privilege log was provided. This Court
notes that certainly with the breadth of information, and the privilege-based
objections, a privilege log should be provided by Defendant. The parties are
required to discuss the issue of a privilege log and what has already been
produced by Defendant during oral argument at the hearing. 
 
Defendant also argues, in its opposition, that its
responses to Request Nos. 29 and 30 are code compliant as they seek performance
evaluations of Plaintiff and documents related to promotions received by
Plaintiff. In response, Defendant stated it was “unable to comply with this
request as it does not have nonprivileged responsive documents within its
possession, custody, or control.” Defendant further states that responsive
documents do not exist. However, this Court is confused by the privilege
objection.  If responsive documents
exist, but are privileged, could they not be produced subject to a protective
order? Defendant should clarify this point on oral argument. 
 