  Case Number:  21STCV18145    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    July 18, 2023
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV18145
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        David Zeil v. DOES 1-100
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff, David Zeil   
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
Southwest Airlines Co. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                           September 22, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion for Order
Compelling Defendant to Answer, Without Objection, Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set Two
                                                (2) Motion for Order
Compelling Defendant to Answer, Without Objection, Plaintiff’s Inspection
Demand for Documents
                                                (3) Motion for Order
Deeming Requests for Admission, Set Two, as Admitted
                                                (4) Request for
Monetary Sanctions  
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                      (1) Mooted by service of verified responses
without objection
                                                (2) Ditto
                                                (3) Ditto
                                                (4) Request for
Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED.  $1,000
per motion, payable by defense counsel to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On May 14, 2021, Plaintiff,
David Zeil (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants DOES 1 through
100. Plaintiff eventually learned of the identity of more Defendants including
Southwest Airlines Co, and Ms. Manu. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Products Liability; and (2) General Negligence. 
 
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff
contends that he served Requests for Admission, Set Two, Corresponding Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1, and Inspection Demands concerning the responses to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1. Plaintiff states that Defendant, Southwest Airlines
Co.’s (“Defendant”) responses were due on or before June 5, 1014. However,
Plaintiff contends that no responses were provided by Defendant. Rather, on
June 4, 2024, Plaintiff notes that defense counsel wrote to Plaintiff’s counsel
requesting for a two-week extension to respond to discovery. Plaintiff’s
counsel wrote back indicating that Plaintiff was willing to grant the extension
with contingencies.  There is a dispute
between counsel as to whether the contingencies were agreed upon and reneged or
never agreed upon,  On June 24, 2024, the
defense served verified responses to all the pending discovery without
objections.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates
that since June of 2023, Mr. Worthe refused to take or return his calls and
instead, put the agreeing attorney, Gene Kaskiw in charge of communications
with Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel suggests that only now, when it
was convenient for Mr. Worthe, does he require Plaintiff’s counsel to
communicate with him. Plaintiff’s counsel now argues that Mr. Worthe cannot now
void the stipulation agreement by Mr. Kaskiw. As such, Plaintiff argues that
the motion for summary judgment should be continued. 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Motions to Compel Initial Responses, without objection. On July 3, 2024,
Defendant filed opposition briefs. On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed reply
briefs. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days
after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
 
B.   
Motion to Compel Defendant’s Answer to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set Two
 
Form
Interrogatories 
 
            Plaintiff notes that he seeks initial
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two, without objection. Defendant’s
opposition argues that this motion is moot as it responded to Plaintiff’s Inspection
Demands on June 24, 2024. Based on Exhibit C of the declaration of the Kaskiw declaration,
the responses to the  Form
Interrogatories were verified and responded to without objection. As such, substantive
portion of this Motion to Compel Responses to Inspection Demands, Set Two, is
mooted by the belated responses. However, the untimely responses do not moot
the sanctions portion of Plaintiff’s motion. 
 
Sanctions 
 
Sanctions must be imposed against a party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the party acted with
a substantial justification or that other circumstances would make the
imposition of sanctions unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c); see also Code Civ. Proc., § 708.020, Law Revision
Commission Comments [“if the judgment debtor fails to answer interrogatories
without substantial justification, sanctions may include an award of attorney’s
fees”].) California Rules of Court, rule
3.1348, subdivision (a) states: “[t]he court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.” 
 
As noted above, this Court orders Defendant and/or its
counsel to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel in the lowered amount
of $1,000 within 30 days. 
 
The same is true for the other two motions, so the monetary
sanctions awarded totals $3,000.
 
C.   
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted
 
Denied as moot, and sanctions
awarded as noted above.
 
D.   
Continuance
 
Plaintiff argues, in each of his motions, that this Court should
honor the continuance of the motion for summary judgment previously agreed to
by defense counsel, Kaskiw. However, Plaintiff has
not noticed this motion to continue properly, and instead, merely makes
argument in the motions to compel responses and or deem requests for admission
as admitted. As such, the request to continue the hearing on the MSJ motion is
DENIED without prejudice.  But the Court
will inquire of defense counsel if the parties can now agree to the continuance
before a new motion and opposition and reply and hearing occur. 
 
 
 
.
 
 
 