  Case Number:  23STCV11375    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




CAROLINE RUDDY,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
RQ MEDIA GROUP, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV11375




Hearing Date:


May 15, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS RQ
  MEDIA GROUP, INC. AND BRIAN SALZMAN’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S THIRD AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 




 
Background
On May 19, 2023,
Plaintiff Caroline Ruddy (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendants RQ Media Group, Inc. (“RQ Media”) and Brian Salzman (“Salzman”) (jointly,
“Defendants”). 
On September 7, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Verified First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleged twelve
causes of action, including causes of action for breach of contract and breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Defendants demurred
to the first cause of action of the FAC for breach of contract, and the second cause
of action of the FAC for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. On January 8, 2024, the Court issued an Order, inter alia, sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to first and second causes
of action of the FAC, with leave to amend.
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Verified Second Amended
Complaint. 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Verified Third
Amended Complaint. (“TAC”). The TAC alleges thirteen causes of action,
including causes of action for breach of implied contract and breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Defendants now demur to the first cause of action of the TAC for
breach of implied contract, and the second cause of action of the TAC for
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿.) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, footnote 2¿.) However, “¿[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿” (¿Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿.)¿¿ 
B.    Allegations of the TAC 
In the TAC, Plaintiff
alleges that in 2015, she and Salzman planned to cofound RQ Media, a
marketing agency. (TAC, ¶ 14.) In or about January 2016, Plaintiff and Salzman
implemented their plan and opened their new agency under the name RQ Media. (TAC,
¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that RQ Media was governed in part by a Shareholders
Agreement, dated February 1, 2016. (TAC, ¶ 16.) As set forth therein, Plaintiff
and Salzman were the only two shareholders, with Plaintiff owning shares equal
to 20% and Salzman owning shares equal to 80%. (TAC, ¶ 16.)  
Plaintiff had the title of Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and Salzman
had the titles of President, Chief Executive Officer, and, beginning on or
about August 22, 2018, Chief Financial Officer. (TAC, ¶ 17.) In or about the
summer of 2022, Plaintiff and Salzman mutually agreed to onboard a new employee
to serve as COO, the title Plaintiff had held. (TAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiff also
agreed to modify the scope of her responsibilities and reduce her direct
compensation commensurately. (TAC, ¶ 28.)  
On December 28, 2022, Salzman informed Plaintiff via email that he
wanted to “take her off payroll” and move her to the role of “consultant.” (TAC,
¶ 31.) Plaintiff responded via email on December 29, 2022, and advised Salzman
that she did not agree with any changes to her role. (TAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff
objected to Salzman’s proposal to take her off payroll and instead pay her as a
consultant, as Plaintiff did not believe her job duties were those of an
independent contractor. (TAC, ¶ 32.) The following day, Salzman, without any
action by the Board of Directors, told Plaintiff that she had been terminated.
(TAC, ¶ 33.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants’ decision to terminate
[Plaintiff’s] employment was in breach of her implied contract and, on
information and belief, due in substantial part to [Plaintiff’s] refusal to
accede to [Salzman’s] illegal proposal that Defendants misclassify [Plaintiff]
as an independent contractor.” (TAC, ¶ 34.) 
C.    First Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Contract 
In the first cause of
action for breach of implied contract, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, as
follows: 
 
“[Plaintiff] and
Defendants are parties to an implied employment contract. Pursuant to the terms
of that implied contract, [Plaintiff] would perform the role and
responsibilities discussed in the incorporated allegations unless and until she
and [Salzman], her cofounder, agreed to alter that role. Among other things,
including but not limited to the conduct and agreements discussed in the
preceding paragraphs, the implied employment contract provided that
[Plaintiff], as a coequal cofounder, would be employed indefinitely unless she
chose to leave the Company and could be terminated only for good cause. It also
provided that, as a coequal cofounder, [Plaintiff] would be involved in hiring,
firing, and discipline decision-making; [Plaintiff] was so involved throughout
her employment until [Salzman] purported to unilaterally terminate her. The
implied contract further provided that [Plaintiff] would be entitled to be
employed by the Company and to serve in a key management role for so long as
she owned equity in the Company, lest she be unfairly deprived of the value of
her equity and many contributions as a founder in bad faith and/or without good
cause.” (TAC, ¶ 37.) 
Plaintiff alleges that on December 30, 2022, Defendants breached the implied
contract by, among other things, “terminating [Plaintiff] without good cause
while she continued to be a cofounder and 20% shareholder,” and “terminating
[Plaintiff], in bad faith, at least in part because [Plaintiff] refused to
accede to [Salzman’s] request that she agree to be illegally misclassified as a
non-payroll independent contractor.” (TAC, ¶ 40(a)-(b).) Plaintiff further
alleges that Defendants breached the implied contract by “ceasing to pay
‘indirect expense’ payments to [Plaintiff] that had been paid for years while
continuing to pay those ‘indirect expense’ payments to [Salzman], despite
[Salzman’s] false denial that he would not receive such payments after she was
terminated.” (TAC, ¶ 40(c).) 
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for breach of implied contract fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and is therefore uncertain.” (Demurrer at p.
10:22-23.) As an initial matter, as noted by Plaintiff, Defendants appear to improperly
attempt to combine two separate grounds for a demurrer under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e)
and (f), “[t]he party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed
may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section
430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:…(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.” 
 In the demurrer, Defendants
also cite to Division of Labor Law Enforcement v. Transpacific
Transportation Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 268, 275, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]hile an express
contract is defined as one, the terms of which are stated in words (Civil Code section 1620), an implied contract is an
agreement, the existence and terms of which are manifested by conduct (Civil Code section 1621). As the cases explain, both
types of contract are identical in that they require a meeting of minds or an
agreement…Thus, it is evident that both the express contract and contract
implied in fact are founded upon an ascertained agreement or, in other words,
are consensual in nature, the substantial difference being in the mode of proof
by which they are established…While an implied in fact contract may be inferred
from the conduct, situation or mutual relation of the parties, the very heart
of this kind of agreement is an intent to promise.” 
Defendants assert that “[a]t
no point in the TAC is there an allegation to support a mutual intent to
promise ‘indefinite, long-term employment with RQ Media’ as alleged in
paragraph 22 of the TAC.” (Demurrer at p.
11:11-13.)[1] Defendants
also assert that “[i]n the breach of contract section itself, the TAC references
an implied employment contract, but lacks specificity as to the terms thereof.”
(Demurrer at p. 11:19-21.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff counters that “[c]ontrary
to Defendants’ characterization of the TAC, the allegations in support of the
first cause of action for breach of implied contract set forth in great detail
the conduct between [Plaintiff] and Defendants, which evidences the existence
and terms of the implied employment contract.” (Opp’n at p. 7:14-17.) 
Plaintiff notes that the Transpacific Transportation Co. Court noted that “[t]he true implied contract consists of
obligations arising from a mutual
agreement and intent to promise where
the agreement and promise have not been expressed in words.” (Division
of Labor Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co., supra,
69 Cal.App.3d 268, 275 [internal quotations and emphasis omitted].) Plaintiff
also cites to Friedman v. Friedman (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 876, 887,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n implied contract…in no
less degree than an express contract, must be founded upon an ascertained
agreement of the parties to perform it, the substantial difference between the
two being the mere mode of proof by which they are to be respectively established.
It is thus an actual agreement between the parties, the existence and terms
of which are manifested by conduct. Although an implied in fact contract
may be inferred from the conduct, situation or mutual relation of the parties,
the very heart of this kind of agreement is an intent to promise.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted, emphasis added.)
Plaintiff asserts that here, “[t]he
TAC alleges that the course of conduct began in 2015 when Ms. Ruddy and
Defendant Salzman planned to cofound RQ Media…(TAC ¶¶ 14, 36.) From the
beginning, the parties had a mutual agreement that Ms. Ruddy would provide
‘internal operations and management’ services for RQ Media. (TAC ¶ 20; see
also TAC ¶¶ 14, 26, 37.) In exchange for these services to be performed,
Ms. Ruddy received co-ownership of and employment at RQ Media. (TAC ¶¶ 15, 17,
19, 36.) The indefinite and long-term nature of the employment relationship was
supported by Ms. Ruddy’s entry into the Shareholders Agreement on February 1,
2016, which modified the existing implied contract for future services to be
performed in exchange for employment and equity she already had. (TAC ¶¶ 16,
18, 37.) By entering into the Shareholders Agreement, Ms. Ruddy provided
additional consideration in the form of new limits on her RQ Media equity, such
as a vesting schedule, a ‘Triggering Event’ provision that would require her to
sell her RQ Media equity, and a ‘Bad Leaver’ provision that limited her ability
to set a price for the sale of her RQ Media equity. (TAC ¶¶ 21, 22, 37.)
Moreover, the TAC sets forth Ms. Ruddy’s performance (TAC ¶¶ 26, 39), Ms.
Ruddy’s additional compensation through ‘indirect expense’ payments (TAC ¶¶ 27,
38), Defendants’ breach of the implied contract (TAC ¶¶ 33, 34, 40), and
damages proximately resulting from Defendants’ breach (TAC ¶¶ 33, 40, 41).”
(Opp’n at pp. 7:17-8:11.) The Court notes that
Defendants did not file any reply in support of the demurrer and thus do not
address the foregoing points or Plaintiff’s assertion that the allegations in
support of the first cause of action “set forth in great detail the
conduct between [Plaintiff] and Defendants, which evidences the existence and
terms of the implied employment contract.” (Opp’n at p. 7:15-17.) As discussed,
“an implied contract is an agreement, the existence
and terms of which are manifested by conduct.” (Division of Labor Law Enforcement v. Transpacific
Transportation Co., supra,
69 Cal.App.3d at p. 275, citing Civ. Code, § 1621.)  
Defendants also argue that “[t]he
TAC references a written Shareholders Agreement which allegedly contains a
vesting schedule, pricing terms and provisions for Plaintiff’s departure,
however the writing itself is not attached, nor is the substance of the vesting
schedule, pricing terms or conditions pertaining to Ms. Ruddy’s exit described
in detail anywhere in the TAC.” (Demurrer at p. 11:16-19.) Defendants cite to Otworth v.
Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-459, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]o state a cause of action for breach of contract, Otworth must plead the contract,
his performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Southern Pacific’s breach and the resulting
damage. Further,
the complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral,
or implied by conduct…If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Internal
citations omitted.) 
But
as noted by Plaintiff, “[t]he TAC alleges that the Shareholders
Agreement partly governs RQ Media. (TAC ¶ 16.)…the allegations related to the
breach of implied contract cause of action do not allege a breach of the
Shareholders Agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 6:7-10.) Thus, for purposes of the breach
of implied contract cause of action, the Court does not see why Plaintiff must
purportedly allege the terms of the Shareholders Agreement verbatim, or attach
a copy of the Shareholders Agreement to the TAC. 
Defendants
also assert that “Plaintiff pleads no provisions or conditions of
any alleged oral contract and fails to provide a copy of the written contract
she alleges was breached.” (Demurrer at p. 11:22-23.) But as discussed, the
first cause of action is for breach of an implied contract. 
Defendants also argue that “the TAC omits sufficient details of when a
binding implied contract was actually intended to be formed such that
Defendants can be apprised of any statute of limitations issues that are in
contention in this instant demurrer.” (Demurrer at p. 11:23-26.) In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[w]hen a contract was formed has no
relevance whatsoever to the statute of limitations. Subject to occasional
nuances specific to factual circumstances, which have nothing to do with the time
of formation, the statute of limitations begins to run upon the breach.” (Opp’n
at p. 7, fn. 4.) Plaintiff cites to, inter alia, Bennett v. Ohio National Life
Assurance Corp. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 723, 728-729, where the Court of Appeal noted that “the statutes of limitation do not begin to run
until a cause of action accrues. Generally, a cause of action accrues when it
is complete with all of its elements. Where damages are an element of a cause
of action, the claim does not accrue until the damages have been sustained. Both breach of contract and
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, i.e., bad faith,
include a damages element…Under these principles, claims for breach of contract
and bad faith regarding disability insurance payments do not accrue until there
is a breach and the plaintiff sustains damages.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
In the first cause of action, Plaintiff now alleges that “[o]n
December 30, 2022, Defendants breached the implied contract,” and that “[a]s a
proximate result of Defendants’ breach, Ms. Ruddy has been damaged in an amount
to be proven at trial.” (TAC, ¶¶ 40-41.) Defendants did not file any reply in
support of the demurrer and thus do not address the foregoing points. 
Lastly, Defendants assert that “the lack of information pertaining to
her alleged wage claims affects Defendants’ ability to challenge what alleged
wages, if any, are claimed to be omitted from her wage statements and pay.”
(Demurrer at p. 11:26-28.) The Court does not see how this argument is relevant
to Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for beach of
implied contract or second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. Defendants only demur to the first and second
causes of action of the TAC. 
In light of
the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that
the first cause of action “does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,” or that the first
cause of action is “uncertain.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e)-(f).) Thus, the Court
overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action. 
 
D.   
Second Cause of Action
for Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendants assert that
the second cause of action “fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and/or is uncertain.” (Demurrer at p. 12:4-5.) 
Defendants cite to Racine &
Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026,
1031, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing rests upon
the existence of some specific contractual obligation. The covenant of good
faith is read into contracts in order to protect the express covenants or
promises of the contract, not to protect some general public policy interest
not directly tied to the contract’s purpose.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) “Although breach of the implied covenant often is pleaded as a
separate count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a breach of
contract.” ((Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 873, 885.) 
Defendants
assert that “[a]s discussed above, Plaintiff’s allegations as to
the breach of contract cause of action are insufficient to plead the existence
of a breach of contract claim because the terms are undefined and no writing is
attached to the TAC. Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing therefore necessarily fails due to the
lack of an adequately alleged specific contractual obligation.” (Demurrer at p.
12:22-26.) As set forth above, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the
first cause of action for breach of implied contract. Thus, the Court also overrules the demurrer to
the second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to first and second causes of action of the TAC. 
The Court orders Defendants to
file and serve an answer to the TAC within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿¿

Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  May 15, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


