 Case Number:  23STCV09956    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO QUASH (IMI FABI)
            Plaintiffs
Jenifer Mager and John Mandracchia filed this action alleging Jenifer Mager
developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos in products from Clubman,
Jean Nate, Mennen, Clinique, and Johnson & Johnson.  (Opposition at p. 3.)  Plaintiffs contend Defendants IMI Fabi, LLC
and IMI Fabi (Diana), LLC supplied the talc for those products.  (Ibid.)  Defendants filed motions to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. 

A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or
her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
IMI Fabi, LLC states it is
a West Virginia company, and before 2005 it sold only industrial grade talc for
non-cosmetic applications and never did any business in connection with
California.  (See Woods Decl. generally.)
 IMI Fabi (Diana), LLC states it is a
North Carolia company with its headquarters in New York until it closed in 2004
and had no connections to California. 
(See Brown Decl. generally.)
Plaintiffs do not contest
that there is no general jurisdiction over Defendants.  Instead, Plaintiffs argue without evidence
that Defendants “supplied asbestos-containing talc to manufacturers of
products” that she used including Clubman, Jean Nate, Mennen, Clinique, and
Johnson & Johnson.  (Opposition at p.
1.)  Plaintiffs cite no evidence for these
assertions.  Instead, Plaintiffs point to
the allegations of her complaint as sufficient to defeat this motion.  (Opposition at p. 5.)  That is contrary to the law; a plaintiff must
submit evidence, not allegations.  (Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
            Plaintiffs
then cite evidence about Defendants selling talc to Revlon.  (Opposition at p. 4.)  But Plaintiffs do not contend that Mager used
Revlon products, and Revlon is not a defendant in this case (nor can it be since
it is in bankruptcy).  Therefore sales
from Defendant to Revlon are irrelevant to the motions to quash.  
            Plaintiffs
claim they need very broad discovery into all aspects of Defendants’ business
in connection with California.  There must
be some basis in fact for jurisdictional discovery, some reason to conclude
discovery is likely to produce evidence of California contacts sufficient for
personal jurisdiction.  (In re
Automobile Antitrust Cases (2005) 136 Cal.App.4th 100, 127 [“In order to
prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the
plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production
of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction”].)  When a plaintiff is not able to make an offer
of proof of the existence of “additional relevant jurisdictional evidence,” a
court does not abuse its discretion in denying jurisdictional discovery.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs did not demonstrate that discovery
is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
Defendants sold talc for use in Clubman, Jean Nate, Mennen, Clinique, and
Johnson & Johnson products.   
The motion is
GRANTED and the complaint against Defendants IMI Fabi, LLC and IMI Fabie
(Diana), LLC is DISMISSSED without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 581, subdivision (h).
            The
moving parties are to give notice.