 Case Number:  21STCV25219    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (FAMILIAN)
            Defendant
Familian Corp. moves for summary judgment of Plaintiffs’ claims that Eugene
Montano was exposed to an asbestos-containing product from Defendant.  Defendant also moved for summary adjudication
of the third and fourth causes of action and request for punitive damages.  Thereafter Plaintiffs dismissed those causes
of action.
A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
A.        Objections
Plaintiffs’ Objection No. 1:  Overruled.
Plaintiffs’ Objection No. 2:  The court did not rely on this evidence.
Defendant’s Objection Nos. 1,
5:  Overruled
Defendant’s Objection Nos. 2, 3, 4,
7:  Defendant objected to these
deposition transcripts from other cases pursuant to Berroteran v. Superior
Court (2022) 12 Cal. 5th 867.  In that case the California Supreme Court
explained that Evidence Code section 1291 treats former deposition testimony
differently than former trial testimony. 
(Id. at p. 891.)  “The
interest and motive of an opposing party at a discovery deposition is therefore
often against cross-examination of the witness, in order to avoid
assisting the deposing party.”  (Id.
at p. 892.)  Also, even if an opposing
party has an interest in cross-examination, the opportunity may not be ideal if
discovery is ongoing and the evidentiary record is not yet complete.  (Id. at pp. 892-893.)  However, sometimes a deposition is intended
to preserve testimony for trial.  (Id.
at p. 894.)  Therefore, “[t]he party
seeking admission of prior deposition testimony under [section 1291] is free to
submit evidence to the court that the deposition sought to be introduced,
unlike a typical discovery deposition, featured circumstances that provided the
party opponent with an interest and motive for cross-examination similar to
that at trial.”  (Id. at p.
894.)  “The party urging admission of
deposition testimony bears the burden of rebutting the general rule by
submitting appropriate information justifying the admission of designated
deposition testimony.”  (Id. at p.
895.)  Plaintiffs did not submit any such
evidence.  Therefore the objections are
sustained.
Defendant’s Objection No. 6:  Sustained. 
Plaintiffs did not authenticate these articles or provide an evidentiary
basis for Plaintiffs’ attorney to state that the articles were published in
1982.
B.        Summary
Judgment
            Defendant contends Plaintiffs have
no evidence that Eugene Montano worked with asbestos-containing products from
Defendant.  (Motion at p.1.)  Defendant cites Plaintiffs’ responses to an
interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the contention that Defendant is
liable for exposing Montano to asbestos-containing products.  (Ex. C at p. 2.)  Plaintiffs responded he worked with asbestos-cement
sewer pipes, asbestos-cement vent pipes, and asbestos-containing gaskets from
Defendant.  (Ex. D at pp. 2-3.)  Also, Montano testified he installed asbestos
cement pipe, which he picked up from Defendant’s wholesale house; he installed asbestos
cement vent pipe for water heaters which he obtained from Defendant; he bought
gaskets from Defendant.  (Ex. B at pp. 31-32,
39-40, 137, 140, 226-227.)
            These discovery responses are not
factually-devoid.  Defendant did not
shift the burden.  Therefore summary
judgment is denied.
            C.        Summary Adjudication of Punitive Damages
            Defendant argues Plaintiffs have no
evidence Defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression.  (Motion at p. 15.)  When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence
to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ” ’.  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 1159.)
“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)  
Defendant cites to Plaintiffs’ response to an interrogatory
asking for all facts supporting the claim for punitive damages.  (Ex. C at p. 5.)  In response Plaintiffs stated Defendant knew
about but failed to warn workers of the dangers associated with working with
asbestos cement pipe.  Plaintiff cites
dozens of deposition transcripts and other generic documents without specify
exactly what testimony or statements in those transcripts and documents support
their allegations.  (Ex. D at pp.
16-24.)  In other words, the response put
the burden on the court to read dozens of transcripts, laws, regulations, and
publications to try to figure out the specific evidence supporting Plaintiffs’
claims.  It is not the court’s
responsibility to sort through piles of exhibits to try to figure out what
evidence, if any, actually supports Plaintiffs’ case.  Because Plaintiffs failed to identify the
specific evidence supporting their general allegations, the response is
factually-devoid, and Defendant shifted the burden.
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendant
knew about the hazards of asbestos in the products it was selling but never
tested its products.  (Opposition at p.
16.)  To support this assertion,
Plaintiffs cite depositions from other cases. 
As explained above, Defendant’s objections to those depositions are
sustained.  But even if they were not
sustained and even if the deposition transcripts were admissible, the cited
evidence does not show Defendant knew about the hazards of asbestos products at
the time of Montano’s exposure.  Plaintiffs
cite the testimony of Defendant’s representative that Defendant became aware of
the dangers of asbestos when JM was sued but he does not know when that
was.  (Ex. 7 at pp. 148-149.)  Plaintiffs cite a deposition transcript of a
manager of Defendant who, when asked “When did Familian first learn that
exposure to asbestos could be hazardous,” testified:  “according to Bernie Shapiro, it was when he
was reading the financial section of the LA Times in the ‘80s when he heard
about it, that it would be hazardous.  (Ex.
8 at pp. 85-86.)  Even assuming this
second-hand knowledge based on something someone else said is admissible, the
testimony only establishes when Defendant learned that asbestos could be
hazardous.  It does not establish when
Defendant learned that the products it sold that contained asbestos could be
hazardous.
            Plaintiffs did not show via
admissible evidence disputed issues concerning punitive damages.  The motion is granted.
The motion for  summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication of
punitive damages is GRANTED.
            The moving party is to give notice.