  Case Number:  22STCP04406    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TERRY KREKORIAN
 
  
        
  vs.
 
PCH TREATMENT,
  INC., et al.   
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCP04406
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 5, 2023



 
The Court
confirms the fair value of $5,0330,000 for the 35% PCH interest as of
12/1/9/2022.
 
On
12/19/2022, Terry Krekorian, as an individual and as a Trustee of the Mr.
Shmoobus Family Trust dated 1/25/2018 (Plaintiff) filed suit against PCH
Treatment, Inc., and Jeffrey D. Ball as an individual and as a Trustee of the
S&J Ball Family Trust dated 8/1/2014, alleging: (1) judicial dissolution;
(2) accounting; and (3) breach of fiduciary duty. 
            
Now, Jeffrey
Ball (Defendant) moves to confirm an award of the Court-appointed Appraisers’
valuation and issue a buyout decree. Concurrently, Terry Krekorian (Plaintiff)
moves to confirm an award. 
 
For ease, the
Court has consolidated its analysis into a single ruling. 
 
Discussion 
 
            The
Court ordered appraisals of the Residential LLCs as of February 27, 2023 pursuant
to Corporations Code §17707.03 in its June 20, 2023 Order.
 
            The
appraisers reached the following valuations: 
 
-        
Vickery: $5,720,000
-        
Ashbrook: $5,033,000
-        
Johnstone: $1,680,000. 
 
The
appraisers then met and conferred, and a consensus by a majority of the
appraisers of $5,033,000 was obtained (Vickery Decl., ¶¶ 9, 10). Johnstone
agreed to increase his value up to $3,900,000 if there could be a unanimous
determination, but such an effort was unsuccessful. (Ibid ¶ 8).
 
Defendant
argues that the valuation of Mr. Johnstone should be accepted because it
reflects the true value of the assets, and the valuations generated by Mr.
Ashbrook and Mr. Vickery contain procedural and substantive improprieties and
deficiencies. 
 
In
particular, Defendant sets forth the following issues with their analyses:
 
1)    
In contrast to Mr. Johnstone who has
been a Certified Public Accountant for nearly 30 years and an interim Chief
Financial Officer twice, neither Mr. Ashbrook nor Mr. Vickery are CPAs or have
ever been CFOs.
 
2)    
Mr. Ashbrook and Mr. Vickery both
assigned and added value to PCH going forward for purported derivative claims
brought by Mr. Krekorian on behalf of PCH in this action that were never filed
and do not exist. In addition, they added back “Derivative Action” expenses
totaling $395,000 to historical earnings, meaning that these expenses were
added back twice.
 
3)    
Mr. Ashbrook and Mr. Vickery improperly
added $1,104,000 to the value of PCH for “receivable” accounts that are
uncollectible, cannot be used to generate a tax write-off, have no terms, and
accrue no interest. No buyer of PCH would assign any value to these accounts.
 
4)    
Mr. Ashbrook and Mr. Vickery improperly
added back to PCH’s historical earnings hundreds of thousands of dollars in
salaries actually paid to PCH employees in order to inflate profit projections
going forward.
 
5)    
Krekorian inserted himself into the
appraisal process despite the Court’s order that he refrain from doing so.
 
6)    
Mr. Ashbrook and His Associate,
Christian Kostal, had improper private meetings with Mr. Vickery without Mr.
Johnstone present.
 
(Motion,
2:3-20.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Mr. Johnstone’s valuation is biased and
unreliable, and Plaintiff responded to each of the alleged improprieties or
deficiencies identified by Defendant.   
 
As
for Mr. Johnstone’s valuation, Plaintiff argues that the report is unreliable
because: (1) he only considered the COVID years (2020-2022) and did not include
a historical analysis of his valuation, as would an independent buyer of the
going concern; (2) He took inconsistent positions as to the "due to due
from" and refused to consider it as a receivable for PCH in an effort to
reduce the value both for PCH and for the Residential LLCs, by $1.2-1.3 million
(Vickery Decl, ¶¶ 20-21); (3) he discounted the value of Krekorian's 35%
interest for lack of marketability, when a going concern analysis under
Corporations Code §2000 does not allow for such reduction; (4) he relied upon
fair market value LLC cases under Corporations Code §17707.03, rather than fair
value cases regarding corporations under Corporations Code §2000; (5) He used
an unsupportable 3.51-4.34 times EBITDA multiple when investment bankers deemed
the value should be 7 times to 10 times EBITDA, and that PCH would warrant a 6
multiple, and misstates that Ashbrook's investment banking group supports a 4x
multiple (Id. at ¶ 18); (6) he relied solely on RMA as an industry
source for his working capital assumptions, when RMA include "Substance
Abuse Facilities," which is not reflective of PCH operations. Johnstone
failed to consider other industry data sources; (7) he failed to consider the
considerable multi-million dollar cash distributions to the shareholders,
historically, and the profit margins garnered by PCH over the years. (Id.
at ¶ 23c); and (8) he failed to make adjustments for non-recurring expenses and
income.
 
Plaintiff
also argues that Mr. Johnstons’ report lacks a narrative report offering
detailed explanations, reasoning, and analyses pertinent to how he reached his
opinion, does not include industry or economic analysis detailing relevant
market data, and contains no financial analysis indicating an independent
assessment of the reliability of the data prior to 2020. 
 
As
for the concerns raised by Defendant, Plaintiff provided the following
rebuttals: 
 
-        
You need not be a certified public
accountant or chief financial officer to determine business valuation. Both
Ashbrook and Vickery have more than a quarter century worth of experience in
business valuations. Moreover, Johnstone did not conduct any CPA or order an
audit of PCH financial statements. 
 
-        
Ashbrook and Vickery were required to
consider derivative claims in their valuations. The derivative claims asserted
by Krekorian are to have Ball return to the corporation funds that he
wrongfully took therefrom. These would have been added to the assets of the
corporation and must be considered. Cotton v. Expo Power Systems, Inc.
(2009) 170 Cal. App. 4th 1371 states that a determination of fair value under
Corporations Code §2000 includes an assessment of the value, if any, of pending
derivative actions and their effect on the fair value of the shares.
 
-        
The due to PCH receivable from the
Residential LLCs is an asset of the company as is shown in their income tax
returns and financial statements. So too, it is a liability for the Residential
LLCs as shown in their financial statements and income tax returns. A buyer of
the going concern may well not be the buyer of the Residential LLCs, and would
clearly pursue his action for the loans shown on all the financial statements.
Johnstone's inconsistent consideration of the "due to due from" in
the Residential LLCs' valuation and the PCH valuation is revealing.
 
-        
Ashbrook and Vickery properly
considered excessive salaries to Ball and Krekorian as compared to industry
standards, and the "salary" paid to Ball's wife who performed no
duties for PCH, and the excessive salary to Ball's friend, Santamaria. These
expenses would be removed by any perspective buyer of the going concern, as it
would pay its principals industry salaries, not profit participations shown as
salary or bonus for the sub-chapter S corporation. Further, a buyer would
normalize expenses to industry norms, as the buyer would place appropriate
safeguards to avoid excessive personal expenses taken by Ball and equalized to
Krekorian in the past. 
 
-        
The panel sought information and
opinion from both Ball and Krekorian to assist them in their understanding of
the business and the valuation of the company's going forward. It was PCH and
Brian Conners, aided by panel internal information from Johnstone, who tried to
insert himself into the appraisal process. Conners' September 27, 2023 email
(Exh. 3) clearly shows he had advanced knowledge of inside panel discussions,
and Johnstone admitted direct communications and disclosures with PCH (Vickery
Decl., ¶ 12)
 
After review,
the Court confirms the fair value of $5,0330,000 for the 35% PCH interest as of
12/1/9/2022, the majority consensus of the panel.[1]
This is based on a number of considerations. First, the Court is persuaded by
Plaintiff’s explanations to show that the reports of Mr. Ashbrook and Mr.
Vickery were not based on any improprieties or facially defective methods.
Second, Mr. Ashbrook’s and Mr. Vickery’s report were supported by thorough and
detailed analysis which included narrative reports which provided explanations,
reasoning, and analyses pertinent to the assumptions that were made in
developing the opinions. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court confirms the fair value of $5,0330,000 for the 35% PCH
interest as of 12/1/9/2022. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 


