  Case Number:  23STCV07389    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CALIMA ELECTRIC, INC., a California corporation.
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE HATCH GROUP, INC., a California corporation; ROLLING GREENS
  NURSERY, INC., a California corporation; SL RETAIL OWNER LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; and DOES 1 THROUGH 100, inclusive.
                        Defendants. 
______________________________________
ROLLING GREENS NURSERY, INC., a California corporation; SL
  RETAIL OWNER LLC. a Delaware limited liability company,
                        Cross-Complainants,
            v.
THE HATCH GROUP, INC., a California Corporation; and DOES 1
  through 20, inclusive.
                        Cross-Defendants. 
______________________________________
THE HATCH GROUP, INC., a California corporation
                        Cross-Complainants,
            v.
ROLLING GREENS NURSERY, INC., a California corporation; and ROES
  1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV07389
 Hearing Date:   3/29/24
 Trial Date:        11/12/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Calima
  Electric, Inc.’s Motion Seeking Leave to Amend Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
1. Complaint
[Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.]
Plaintiff Calima Electric Inc. (Calima
Electric) sues (1) Defendant /Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant The Hatch
Group, Inc. (The Hatch Group or THG), (2)
Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant Rolling Greens Nursery, Inc. (Rolling
Greens), (3) Defendant/Cross-Complainant SL Retail Owner LLC (SL Retail), and
Does 1 through 100 pursuant to an April 4, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of
(1) Breach of Written Contract, (2) Open Book Account, (3) Quantum Meruit, and
(4) Foreclosure on Mechanic’s Lien.
The first through third causes of
action are alleged only against The Hatch Group and Does 1-25 and arise from
allegations that THG owes Calima Electric $215,936.95 in relation to certain
labor, supplies, materials, and/or services for certain renovation work at the
work improvement commonly known as the Rolling Green Home & Garden located
at 12833Ventura Boulevard, Studio City, California 91604 (the Property). The
work was performed pursuant to a subcontractor agreement, with THG as the
general contractor and Calima Electric as the subcontractor.
The fourth cause of action is
alleged only against Rolling Greens, SL Retail, and Does 20-100 based on
allegations that Rolling Greens, SL Retail, and these Does outright own or own
some interest in the Property on which work was performed by Calima Electric,
thus supporting a foreclosure on a mechanic’s lien on that property.
On May 18, 2023, THG filed an
Answer to Complaint.
On July 26, 2024, Rolling Greens
and SL Retail filed an Answer to Complaint.
2. Cross-Complaint
[Rolling Greens and SL Retail]
On July 27, 2023, Rolling Greens
and SL Retail filed a Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Declaratory Relief
and (2) Indemnity against The Hatch Group and Does 1 through 20.
The claims arise from allegations
that in 2021, Rolling Greens and SL Retail entered into a written lease
agreement relating to Rolling Greens’ lease of the Property, and that in March
2022, THG bound itself to that lease agreement by entering a separate
contractor agreement with SL Retail as owner of the Property, with the
contractor agreement incorporating the lease agreement’s terms at Article 9,
including a term requiring that THG pay off any mechanic’s lien on the
Property.
The Cross-Complaint attaches a copy
of the contractor agreement but not the written lease agreement.
On September 12, 2023, The Hatch
Group filed an Answer to Cross-Complaint.
3. Cross-Complaint
[The Hatch Group (THG)]
That same day, THG filed a
Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit,
and (3) Account Stated against Rolling Greens and Roes 1 through 100.
The claims arise from allegations
that Rolling Greens and Roes 1 through 100 owe THG $345,276 for the reasonable
value of services rendered in relation to the contractor agreement.
B. Relevant Procedural History
On October 11, 2023, Rolling Greens
filed a notice of posting of mechanic’s lien discharge bond, noticing for the
Court that, pursuant to Civil Code section 8424, on August 2023, Rolling Greens
recorded a “Discharge of Lien Bond” with the County Recorder for the County of
Los Angeles in the amount of $269,921.19, the purpose of which was to discharge
the mechanic’s lien recorded by Plaintiff Calima Electric on February 23, 2023.
On November 29, 2023, Rolling
Greens filed a notice of related case regarding this action and case numbers 23BBCV01490
(June 30, 2023, action filed with the Burbank court and involving Rolling
Greens and THG) and 23BBCV02081 (September 11, 2023, action filed with Burbank
court and involving “Glover Plumbing and Mechanical” against THG, et al.).
On December 13, 2023, Rolling
Greens again filed a notice of posting mechanics lien release bond attaching
the August 2, 2023, “Discharge of Lien Bond.”
C. Motion Before the Court
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff
Calima Electric filed a motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. The
motion was set for hearing at 8:30 AM on March 29, 2024, and involves the
elimination and addition of various claims and the addition of various
defendants.
On February 29, 2024, the Court
reset the hearing to 1:30 PM on March 29, 2024.
On March 18, 2024, Defendant THG
filed an opposition to Calima Electric’s motion.
On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff Calima
Electric filed a reply to THG’s opposition.
Later that same day, Defendant
Rolling Greens noticed its intent to appear remotely at the hearing on Calima
Electric’s motion. However, the record fails to show that Rolling Greens filed
an opposition to the motion to file the proposed FAC.
SL Retail has not made any filings
with respect to Calima Electric’s motion.
Plaintiff Calima Electric’s motion
is now before the Court.
 
II. Evidentiary Objections
A. Reply Evidentiary Objections
to Opposition’s Cate Declaration
Objections to ¶¶ 3, 5, Exs. B, D:
OVERRULED.
 
III. Motion for Leave to Amend: GRANTED.
A. Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
Under California Rules of Court
Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: 
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge Sports).)
Although California courts will not
ordinarily consider the validity of a proposed amended pleading in ruling on a
motion for leave to amend given that any grounds for a demurrer or a motion to
strike will be premature at that time, courts do have discretion to deny leave
to amend when “the insufficiency of the proposed amendment is established by
controlling precedent and … [can]not be cured by further appropriate
amendment.” (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 (California Casualty), citations
omitted, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406; see, e.g., Foxborough v.
Van Atta (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 231 [not an abuse of discretion to deny
leave to amend when “proposed amendment would have been futile because it was
barred by the statute of limitations” with no indication of relating back to
the original complaint].) However, where “the proposed legal theory [at issue]
is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and
allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.’” (Kittredge
Sports, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048, quoting California
Casualty, supra, at p. 280.)
Alternately, even if a proposed
amendment is filed in proper form, a long, unwarranted, and unexcused delay in
presenting the amendment may nevertheless serve as grounds for a court to deny
leave to amend. (Roemer v. Retail Credit Co. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 926,
939-940.) In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence
in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them;
and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party. (Id. at p. 940.)
If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has
prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.
(Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice
exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss
of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden
of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
486-488.)
B. Analysis 
1. Procedural
Requirements 
First, Plaintiff Calima Electric’s
motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a)(1)
because clean and redline copies of the proposed FAC are attached to the moving
papers. (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., Exs. A-B.)
Second, Plaintiff Calima Electric’s
motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a)(2)-(3)
by clearly establishing the differences between the Complaint and proposed FAC
through the points and authorities (see Mot., p. 1, § I) and through the
attachment of a redline copy of the proposed FAC showing its differences from
the Complaint (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., Ex. B.)
Third, Plaintiff Calima Electric’s
motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivisions
(b)(1)-(4) by describing:
(1) Through incorporation, the
effect of the amendment, i.e., (a) the elimination of the fourth cause of action,
(b) the addition of THG’s owner, Ronald L. Hatch, as a Defendant to the claims
stated against THG, (c) the addition of claims for violation of Civil Code
section 8800 et seq., conversion, and receipt of stolen property against THG
and Ronald L. Hatch, and (d) the addition of two claims for enforcement of
various bonds, which add American Contractors Indemnity Company (ACIC) and The
Hanover Insurance Company (Hanover) as Defendants in addition to Rolling Greens
and SL Retail (see Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B);
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper, i.e., (a) to eliminate a claim that is no longer operative, (b) to
add claims based on new discovery to the effect that Rolling Greens and SL
Retail paid THG as general contractor and that THG’s owner, Ronald L. Hatch, intentionally
diverted those monies to himself, and (c) to have the case tried on the merits
(see Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶ 5-13);
(3) When the facts giving rise to the
amendment were discovered, i.e., (a) on August 2, 2023, for the removal of the
fourth cause of action—which can be alternately effected through a request for
dismissal at any time—and (b) on or around December 2023 for the facts relating
to payment to THG and unlawful diversion of funds by Ronald L. Hatch (Mot., Gharakhani
Decl., ¶¶ 6-12); and
(4) Why the amendment was not
requested sooner, i.e., (a) as to removal of the fourth cause of action, not
directly addressed, but the Court notes dismissal is a matter of right for the
pleading party, and (b) ongoing discovery as to THG and Ronald L. Hatch, with this
motion being filed on January 29, 2023, a little over a month after Ronald L.
Hatch’s deposition on December 21, 2023, when the intentional diversion of
funds to be paid to Calima Electric was discovered. (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶
7-12).
2. Substantive
Discussion 
a. Parties’
Arguments
In its opposition, The Hatch Group
argues that the motion for leave to amend should be denied because it states
causes of action that are fatally defective on two grounds: (1) Plaintiff
Calima Electric’s license to operate as a contractor was not operative at all
relevant times for this action, for which reason, pursuant to Business and
Professions Code 7031, subdivision (a), Calima Electric should not be able to
recover compensation for its work; (2) the claims to be stated against Donald
L. Hatch are defective based on the above; and (3) Calima Electric’s motion
does not identify when the new information was obtained and on what information
the new discovery was obtained. (Opp’n, pp. 2-4.)
In reply, Plaintiff Calima Electric
filed objections to the evidence attached to the opposition to show that Calima
Electric was unlicensed at all relevant times in this action, which the Court
overruled in Section II.A. above. Plaintiff Calima Electric also argues that
section 7031 does not bar the relief requested in the Complaint for various
reasons: (1) these grounds should be raised in a challenge to the pleading and
a challenge now is premature (argued as “untimely”); (2) section 7031 contains
an exception at subdivision (e) that is not addressed in the opposition and may
permit relief despite the general rule in subdivision (a) of this statutory
section; and (3) if necessary, Plaintiff can provide proof of licensure or
satisfy the requirements of subdivision (e). (Reply, pp. 2-7.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Calima Electric.
First, the Court rejects the third
point argued by THG, i.e., that the proposed amendment did not identify the new
information that was discovered (the grounds for liability against Ronald L.
Hatch, for example) and when that information was discovered (on or around
December 2023). (See Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶ 5-12.)
Second, the Court finds that the
opposition’s failure to discuss the exception to the rule stated in subdivision
(e) of Civil Code section 7031 undercuts a finding that THG has shown that the
proposed amendment is fatally defective, and incapable of curing based on
section 7031, subdivision (a).
Third, the Court notes that any
dispute as to licensure or exceptions thereto would best be addressed in an
evidentiary motion, which is premature at this juncture.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiff Calima Electric’s motion. Any challenge to the pleadings can proceed
after service of the proposed FAC, which must be filed with the Court in the
same form as now attached to the Gharakhani declaration as Exhibit A. 
IV. Conclusion
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.’s Motion Seeking Leave to Amend Complaint
is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc. SHALL file its First Amended Complaint in
the same form as now attached to the Gharakhani declaration as Exhibit A within
5 days of this ruling.