 Case Number:  23STCV16330    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  29 Chauvin v. Kilroy Realty, L.P.23STCV16330Plaintiff’s Motion to Substitute Successor In InterestTentativeThe Court will call this matter.The tentative ruling is that the hearing on the motion is continued so that a guardian ad litem may be appointed. Background On July 13, 2023, Storm Chauvin (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action alleging that Plaintiff sustained injuries on February 11, 2022 on the premises owned or controlled by defendants.  In the complaint, Plaintiff asserts causes of action for negligence and premises liability against Kilroy Realty, L.P.; Greystar California, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”); and Does 1 through 50. On August 30, 2023, Defendants filed an answer. Plaintiff died of unrelated causes on March 11, 2024.  (Colato Decl., ¶ 3; Nora Decl., ¶ 4.) On September 13, 2024, this motion was filed seeking an order to substitute Plaintiff’s minor child, Storm King Chauvin, as Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest.On October 16, 2024, the Court continued the hearing so that a guardian ad litem could be appointed for the minor child.  No application for the appointment has been filed. No opposition has been filed. Legal Standard California Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator or guardian ad litem.   Section 377.32 provides that a person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain information, including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death, and statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Id., § 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)¿  Discussion This motion seeks a court order substituting Storm King Chauvin, a minor, as the Successor in Interest of Plaintiff. The motion is supported by the declaration of Kiara Colato, who states that she is the mother of Storm King Chauvin.  The declaration provides the necessary information under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, including: (1)           Plaintiff’s name is Storm Chauvin; (2)           Plaintiff’s date and place of the death, March 11, 2024 in Houma, Louisiana; (3)           That there is no for administration of Plaintiff’s estate; (4)           That each declarant is Plaintiff’s successor in interest or is authorized to act on behalf of the Plaintiff’s successor in interest; and (5)           That no other person has a superior right to be substituted for Plaintiff.The declaration attaches a copy of Plaintiff’s death certificate.  (Colato Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. A.) The declaration states that Ms. Colato has filed an application to be appointed as Guardian Ad Litem for Storm King’s Chauvin.  No application has been filed, however.  With certain exceptions that do not apply here, a minor child must have a guardian ad litem appointed to participate in civil litigation. Accordingly, the motion is CONTINUED so that Ms. Colato may file for and obtain a court order appointing her as Storm King Chauvin’s Guardian Ad Litem. Conclusion The Court CONTINUES for approximately 30 days the hearing on the motion to substitute Storm King Chauvin as Plaintiff’s Successor-in-Interest. The hearing is continued to __/__/2024 at 01:30 PM in Department 29 at Spring Street Courthouse. Moving Party is ordered to give notice.