  Case Number:  22PSCV01611    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant George Liu’s Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Loa
Int’l (USA) Transport Co. Inc.
Defendant
George Liu’s Motion to
Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiff Loa Int’l (USA)
Transport Co. Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant George Liu’s Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint and Motion to
Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint are CONTINUED to a date
to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Defendant’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding
the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising between an employer and former employee.
Plaintiff Loa Int’l (USA) Transport Co. Inc. (Loa) is a transportation business
that worked closely with RL Jones, a customs brokerage and international
logistics company in Texas. Defendant George Liu was an employee of Loa who
worked closely with RL Jones and was aware of the business relationship between
RL Jones and Loa. On July 6, 2022, Liu resigned from employment with Loa and
signed a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement. On September 14, 2022, Liu
allegedly sent an email to RL Jones posing as a current employee of Loa to
obtain Loa’s pricing and attempt to secure RL Jones as a customer for Liu. Liu
also allegedly disclosed Loa’s pricing to RL Jones.
On
November 1, 2022, Loa filed a complaint against Liu and Does 1-20, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional
interference with contractual relations, (3) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations, (4) violation of California Unfair Competition
Law, (5) trade secret misappropriation, and (6) common law trademark
infringement. On April 6, 2023, the court sustained Liu’s demurrer to Loa’s
Complaint.
On May
8, 2023, Loa filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants
alleging the same causes of action. On September 27, the court sustained Liu’s
demurrer to Loa’s FAC.
On
September 29, 2023, Liu filed a cross-complaint against Loa and Roes 1-100,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) failure to pay overtime/earned
wages, (2) failure to provide meal periods, (3) failure to provide rest
periods, (4) waiting time penalties, (5) misclassification, (6) failure to
provide one rest day in seven, and (7) violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 et seq.
On
October 18, 2023, Loa filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same
defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On November 17, 2023, Liu
filed the present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to filing, Liu’s counsel
allegedly met and conferred with Loa’s counsel on November 10. (Feazell Decl.,
¶ 4.)
A hearing on the present
motions is set for January 12, 2024, with a case management conference set for
January 23.
ANALYSIS
Liu
demurs to Loa’s second cause of action (intentional interference with
contractual relations).  For the following reasons,
the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), prior to filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section further provides
that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action
that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
While
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) makes clear failing
to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer, courts “are not
required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and if the court
determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes further
conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains discretion
to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward
reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to
continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn. 3.)
Discussion
In this case, Liu’s counsel filed a declaration
stating counsel met and conferred on November 10, 2023. (Feazell Decl., ¶ 4.) However, a meet-and-confer declaration
must state “[t]he means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not
reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3)(A).) Here, counsel’s declaration does not meet
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a) as
it does not state how parties met and conferred. Thus, the court finds a
continuance to further meet and confer is appropriate.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Liu’s demurrer and motion to strike is CONTINUED to a date
to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Liu’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Loa’s counsel regarding the demurrer
and motion to strike and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled
hearing.