 Case Number:  24STCV00382    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Adelaida Vasquez Gonzalez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
24STCV00382




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Arakelian Enterprises, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 16, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendants Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc. dba Athens Services and Brandi De La Torre
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Adelaida Vasquez Gonzalez 
T/R:     DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT IS OVERRULED.
DEFENDANTS’ TO NOTICE. 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
BACKGROUND
This
is an employment discrimination/wrongful termination action. Plaintiff Adelaida
Vasquez Gonzalez alleges (1) discrimination, (2) harassment, (3) retaliation in
violation of Cal. Gov. Code Section 12940 et seq.; (4) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation in violation of Cal. Gov.
Code Section 12940(k); (5) wrongful termination in violation of public policy;
and (6) negligent supervision and retention against Defendants Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc. dba Athens Services and Brandi De La Torre, erroneously sued
as Brandy Delatorre. 
Gonzalez
alleges she experienced pervasive harassment from her supervisor and colleagues
due to her body and appearance. After she complained, all supervisors or
managers ignored Gonzalez and refused to speak to her. Gonzalez alleges she was
constructively terminated on or about November 30, 2023. 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer to a complaint may
be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High
Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat as true the complaint's
material factual allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
1.   
First Cause of Action for Discrimination
 
Defendants
Athens and De La Torre demur to the first cause of action on the grounds that
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support that she was
constructively terminated or otherwise subject to an adverse employment action
or any disparate treatment because of her sex. 
Under
the McDonnell Douglas test, plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish a prima facie case of discrimination. “Generally, the
plaintiff must provide evidence that (1) he was a member of a protected class,
(2) he was qualified for the position he sought or was performing competently
in the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) To be an adverse employment action, “the
employer's retaliatory conduct must have had a substantial and material adverse
effect on the terms and conditions of [employee’s] employment.” (Akers v.
County of San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1459.) 
“[A]n
employee who is forced to resign due to actions and conditions so intolerable
or aggravated at the time of his resignation that a reasonable person in the
employee's position would have resigned, and whose employer had actual or
constructive knowledge of the intolerable actions and conditions and of their
impact upon the employee and could have remedied the situation, but did not, is
constructively discharged.” (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1238, 1245.)
Pursuant
to Government Code Section 12926(r)(2), “’Sex’ also includes, but is not
limited to, a person’s gender. ‘Gender’ means sex, and includes a person’s
gender identity and gender expression. ‘Gender expression’ means a person’s
gender-related appearance and behavior whether or not stereotypically
associated with the person’s assigned sex at birth.” (Cal. Gov. Code, §
12926(r)(2).)
The
Complaint states sufficient facts to support the first cause of action.
Gonzalez alleges she was a full-time, non-exempt employee with Defendants since
June 14, 2022. (Compl., ¶17.) She performed all her job duties satisfactorily
before she was constructively terminated on or about November 30, 2023. She
also alleges she is a member of the protected classes of sex/gender. (Id.
at ¶¶24,34, 37.) Gonzalez claims she suffered panic attacks because her colleagues
made comments about her body, appearance, and clothing choices and supervisors refused
to help. (Id. at ¶18-23.) She alleges these panic attacks left her
unable to work, which a reasonable jury could infer caused her to resign, constituting
constructive discharge/termination. (Id.)
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action. 
2.   
Second Cause of Action for
Harassment
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has not
alleged actionable harassing conduct or that any such conduct was because of
her sex. “In California, the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov.Code, § 12900
et seq.) (“FEHA”) differs from Title VII in that it explicitly prohibits an
employer from harassing an employee on the basis of race, sex, or other
specified grounds.” (Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457,
464.) “There are two recognized categories of sexual harassment claims. The
first is quid pro quo harassment, where a term of employment or employment
itself is conditioned upon submission to unwelcome sexual advances…The second,
and the one at issue in this case, is hostile work environment, ‘where the
harassment is sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of
employment and create an abusive work environment.’” (Id.) “Whether the
sexual conduct complained of is sufficiently pervasive to create a hostile or
offensive work environment must be determined from the totality of the
circumstances.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 590, 609.) “The plaintiff must prove that the defendant's conduct
would have interfered with a reasonable employee's work performance and would
have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee
and that she was actually offended.” (Id.)
The
Complaint states sufficient facts to support the second cause of action.
Gonzalez alleges that beginning September 2022, her supervisors and colleagues
made harassing comments mocking her body and appearance and made comments about
her clothing. (Compl., ¶18.) In or around July 2023, De La Torre printed out a
cartoon elephant, taped it to the wall, and told co-workers that it was
Gonzalez. (Id. at ¶19.) On or about November 2023, supervisors and
managers began ignoring her after she reported their conduct to Human
Resources. (Id. at ¶21.) The conduct interfered with her work because
she suffered panic attacks, forcing her to take two days off. She was unable to
return because the thought of going back would induce more panic attacks. (Id.
at ¶23.) 
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second cause of action. 
3.   
Third Cause of Action for
Retaliation – Gov. Code Section 12940 et seq.
 
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged that she was constructively terminated or otherwise
subject to an adverse employment action.
“To
establish a prima facie case of retaliation, the plaintiff must show (1) he or
she engaged in a protected activity; (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link between the protected
activity and the employer's action.” (Akers v. County of San Diego
(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1453.) “Once an employee establishes a prima facie
case, the employer is required to offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for
the adverse employment action.” (Id.) “If the employer produces a
legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption of
retaliation ‘drops out of the picture,’ and the burden shifts back to the
employee to prove intentional retaliation.” (Id.)
The
Complaint states sufficient facts to support the third cause of action. As
discussed above, Gonzalez alleges she emailed Human Resources to report the
purported harassment she endured from supervisors and colleagues. (Compl., ¶21.)
A reasonable jury could infer that Gonzalez was engaging in a protected
activity. The day after her report her supervisors and managers started to
ignore her. (Compl., ¶21.) A few days later her equipment malfunctioned, and her
supervisor ignored her request for assistance. (Id. at ¶22.) A
reasonable jury could infer that such conduct was in retaliation for Gonzalez’s
report. 
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action. 
4.   
Fourth Cause of Action for
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation
 
Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently pled the underlying causes of action for discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation. 
“To
state a claim for failure to prevent harassment, a plaintiff must show: (1) ‘plaintiff
was subjected to discrimination, harassment or retaliation;’ (2) ‘defendant
failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent discrimination, harassment or
retaliation;’ and (3) ‘this failure caused plaintiff to suffer injury, damage,
loss or harm.’” (Andrade v. Arby's Restaurant Group, Inc. (N.D. Cal.
2016) 225 F.Supp.3d 1115, 1131.)
For
the reasons discussed above, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support
the fourth cause of action. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of
action. 
5.   
Fifth Cause of Action for
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy[1]
 
Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action on ground that Plaintiff’s FEHA claims fail
as a matter of law, thus the public policy claim fails as well.
“To
support a common law wrongful discharge claim, the public policy ‘must be: (1)
delineated in either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2) “public” in
the sense that it “inures to the benefit of the public” rather than serving
merely the interests of the individual; (3) well established at the time of the
discharge; and (4) substantial and fundamental.’” (Mendoza v. Western
Medical Center Santa Ana (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1338.)
For
the reasons discussed above, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support
the fifth cause of action. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fifth cause of
action. 
6.   
Sixth Cause of Action for
Negligent Supervision and Retention
 
Defendants demur to the sixth
cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to adequately allege
harassing, discriminatory, and retaliatory conduct, thus this claim fails as a
matter of law. 
“An employer can be held
liable for negligent supervision if it knows or has reason to believe the
employee is unfit or fails to use reasonable care to discover the employee's
unfitness.” (Alexander v. Community Hospital of Long Beach (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 238, 253.)
As explained above, the
Complaint sufficiently alleges facts to support Plaintiff’s FEHA claims. As
such, Defendants’ arguments that the sixth cause of action fails because it is
derivative of the FEHA claims fails. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as
the sixth cause of action. 


 


