  Case Number:  22STCV00665    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lat Long
  Infrastructure, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV00665




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Trafero
  Technologies, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: July 16,
2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter 
Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs and
Cross-Defendants Lat Long Infrastructure, LLC, Cavallo Capital Partners, LLC,
Daniel Urban, Jeffrey Anon, and Urban Tech Consulting 
Responding Party: Unopposed 
 
T/R:     The Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
            PLAINTIFFS TO
NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
opposition was filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
This is an action arising from the alleged
breach of contract. On March 30, 2022, Plaintiffs Lat
Long Infrastructure, LLC, Cavallo Capital Partners, LLC, Jeffrey Anon, and
Daniel Urban filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants
Trafero Technologies, LLC, HK Group, Sahil Chaudhary Singh, Karnail Singh, and Riad
Kheidous. The FAC alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Unfair Business Practices; (3) Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations; (5) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage; (6) Negligent Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage; (7) Equitable Indemnity; (8) Contribution; and (9) Tort of
Another. 
 
On February 16, 2024, after amendments,
Defendants Trafero and SCS filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(“SAXC”) against Plaintiffs as well as Cross-Defendant Urban Tech Consulting,
LLC alleging 12 causes of action for, among other causes of action, fraudulent
inducement, misrepresentation, and negligence. 
 
The Lat Long Parties seek a determination that
their settlement with Defendants and Cross-Complainants Trafero, SCS, and Karnail
Singh was entered into in good faith. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Any
party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or
other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving
notice in the manner provided by subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
When
determining whether a settlement was made in good faith, the court considers:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
 
“The
ultimate determinant of good faith is whether the settlement is grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of settlement would
estimate the settlor’s liability to be.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262 [citation omitted].) “[A] good faith
settlement does not call for perfect or even nearly perfect apportionment of
liability.” (Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858,
875 [internal quotations omitted].) “[O]nly when the good faith nature of a
settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and
weigh the Tech-Bilt factors.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “That is to say, when no
one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.” (Ibid.) 
 
Counsel for the Lat Long Parties declares that the settlement includes a
mutual walkaway and mutual, full releases of all claims. The settlement
discussions were at arms’ length and the parties were represented by counsel. Liability
and responsibility for the disputed claims are expressly denied, and each of
the Settling Parties is to bear their own costs of litigation, including
attorney’s fees. The non-settling parties, Defendants HK and Kheidous, who are in
France, were served with the FAC on January 2, 2023, and have defaulted. 
 
The Court finds that the unopposed motion is
sufficient under City of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at
1261. The motion is granted.