 Case Number:  23STCV15606    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge
Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:             November 30,
2023                   TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                                              
CASE: 
                                  3840 Crenshaw, LLC, et al. v. 3820
Crenshaw, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                           23STCV15606
 





















 
MOTIONS
FOR ORDER FOR SUBSTITUTED SERVICE OF PROCESS
THROUGH
THE SECRETARY OF STATE



 
MOVING
PARTY:                  Plaintiffs
3840 Crenshaw, LLC, et al.
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:          No
opposition 
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            On
July 5, 2023, Plaintiffs, 3840 Crenshaw, LLC, Crencol, LLC, and Crenshaw
Square, LLC, filed this action against Defendant, 3820 Crenshaw, LLC, for
alleged environmental contamination flowing from Defendant’s property onto
Plaintiffs’ adjacent property.
 
            On
October 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this Motion for Order for Substituted
Service of Process Through Secretary of State. 
            
            The
Motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD AND DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs
move the Court for an order directing service of the summons and complaint on
Defendant by substituted service of process through the Secretary of State.  Plaintiffs state that Robin Yi, Defendant’s
agent of service of process, has evaded attempts to be served.  In all, Plaintiffs have used two process
servers who have tried and failed to effect service more than twelve times.  (See Veeneman Decl., Exs. A, B and C.)  Plaintiffs further explain that they
contacted Defendant’s counsel about this case. 
Defense counsel initially agreed to accept service of the complaint on
his client’s behalf.  However, defense
counsel later indicated that Defendant would not agree.  (See Veeneman Decl., Ex. D.)  
 
            Plaintiff
relies on Corporations Code section 1702, subdivision (a), which
provides:  
 
“If an agent for service of process has resigned and has not
been replaced or¿if the designated agent cannot with reasonable diligence be
found at the address designated for personal delivery of the process, and it is
shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court that process against a
limited liability company or foreign limited liability company cannot be served
with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the manner
provided in¿Section 415.10, subdivision (a)¿of¿Section 415.20, or¿subdivision
(a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an
order that the service shall be made upon a domestic limited liability company
or upon a registered foreign limited liability company by delivering by hand to
the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of State's
office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process for each
defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing the
service.¿Service in this manner shall be deemed complete on the 10th day after
delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.”  
 
            Similarly,
Corporations Code section 2111 provides:  
 
“If the agent designated for the service of process is a
natural person and cannot be found with due diligence at the address stated in
the designation or if the agent is a corporation and no person can be found
with due diligence to whom the delivery authorized by Section 2110 may be made
for the purpose of delivery to the corporate agent, or if the agent designated
is no longer authorized to act, or if no agent has been designated and if no
one of the officers or agents of the corporation specified in Section 2110 can
be found after diligent search and it is so shown by affidavit to the
satisfaction of the court, then the court may make an order that service be
made by personal delivery to the Secretary of State or to an assistant or
deputy secretary of state of two copies of the process together with two copies
of the order, except that if the corporation to be served has not filed the
statement required to be filed by Section 2105 then only one copy of the
process and order need be delivered but the order shall include and set forth
an address to which the process shall be sent by the Secretary of State.
Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the
process to the Secretary of State.”  (Corp. Code, § 2111(a).)   
 
            “Diligence
is a relative term and must be determined by the circumstances of each case.
The question is one for the trial court in the first instance.”   (Vorburg
v. Vorburg (1941) 18 Cal.2d 794, 797.)  “If the facts set forth in the
affidavit have a legal tendency to show the exercise of diligence on behalf of
the plaintiff in seeking to find the defendant within the state, and that after
the exercise of such diligence [she or] he cannot be found, the decision of the
judge that the affidavit shows the same to his satisfaction is to be regarded
with the same effect as is [her or] his decision upon any other matter of fact
submitted to [her or] his judicial determination.”  (Id.)  

            Here, Plaintiffs demonstrate
that Defendant cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon its designated
agent, Robin Yi, by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision
(a)¿of¿Section 415.20, or¿subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of
Civil Procedure.   Plaintiffs have
attempted to serve Defendant on more than a dozen occasions.  Thus, the Court finds service through the
Secretary of State is the only remaining means for Plaintiffs to serve
documents in this action.  
 
III.       CONCLUSIONS
 
            The
unopposed Motion for Order for Substituted Service of Process Through Secretary
of State is GRANTED.
            
            Plaintiffs
to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  
November 30, 2023                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior
  Court 




 
 
            
 