 Case Number:  23STCV08662    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative
Ruling
 
Judge
Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:             November 30,
2023                   TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                                              
CASE: 
                                  A. U. C. v. Aroldo Marroquin
 
CASE NO.:                           23STCV08662
 





















 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST
FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS
ADMITTED



 
MOVING
PARTY:                           Plaintiff A. U. C.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:               Defendant
Aroldo Marroquin
 
 
I.             INTRODUCTION
 
                On
October 31, 2023, and November 1, 2023, Plaintiff, A. U. C., filed these motions
to compel Defendant, Aroldo Marroquin, to provide responses to Plaintiff’s
First Set of Form Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents, and
to deem Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted against Defendant.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant.
                                                                      
                Defendant
filed Oppositions.  Plaintiff filed
Replies.
 
                As
a threshold issue, the Court notes that Defendant has attached verified
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Admission, Set One, to his
Opposition.  As such, the motion to deem
Requests for Admission, Set One, is MOOT. 
The Court will consider sanctions only in connection with that motion.
 
II.           LEGAL
STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 
 
                If
a party to whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order that the truth of the matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely
serve responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd.
(a).)    
 
                Monetary Sanctions 
 
                Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court
to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
                If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
                If
the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to
compel responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary
sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300,
subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion
to deem requests for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose
monetary sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to the request necessitated the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
III.          DISCUSSION
 
                Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents.
 
                Defendant
argues the motions should be denied because Plaintiff did not meet and confer prior
to filing these motions.  Defendant’s
argument lacks merit.  There is no
requirement that a propounding party meet and confer with a responding party
regarding initial responses to discovery. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b), 2031.300, subd. (b).)  
 
                As
it is undisputed that Plaintiff properly served Defendant with the at-issue
discovery requests on June 16, 2023, and Defendant has not provided responses, all
objections to the discovery requests are waived.¿  Moreover, Plaintiff is entitled to an order
directing Defendant to provide responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One
and Request for Production of Documents, Set One.¿
 
                 Monetary
Sanctions
 
                Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendant.  Defendant
argues the request should be denied because Plaintiff did not include the fee
request on the first page.  The argument
lacks merit. Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires only that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction.¿¿Plaintiff has complied with this requirement.  Given that the Court has granted Plaintiff’s
motions to compel responses to Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production,
sanctions are warranted.  Indeed, in the
context of requests for admissions, sanctions are mandatory, even when
responses are untimely provided.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed
against Defendant in the amount of $1,180, representing 2 hours at plaintiff’s
counsel’s hourly rate and $180 in filing fees. 
 
IV.          CONCLUSION
 
                The
motions to compel responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, are granted. 
Defendant Aroldo Marroquin is ordered to provide verified,
objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form Interrogatories and
Request for Production of Documents. 
 
                The
motion to deem Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted is moot.
 
                The
request for sanctions is granted.  Defendant
is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,180 to Plaintiff, by and
through her counsel.
 
                Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:  
November 30, 2023                                       




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 