


[1] The Commission is also referred to as the Board of
Civil Service Commissioners (Board). 
(See AR 1.)  


[2] Exhibit 1 contains Rule 12.17 of the Rules of the
Board of Civil Service Commissioners City of Los Angeles (Board Rules).


[3] The City argues “it is the administrative
body’s decision, in this case, the Commission’s decision, that is relevant to
this Court’s inquiry, not the decision of the appointing authority.”  (Opposition 10:4-6.) Since Charter
section 1016, subdivision (d) and Board Rule 12.17 authorize the Commission to
reduce the penalty with the “consent” of the appointing authority, there is a
reasonable argument the trial court reviews the Commission’s final exercise of
discretion as to penalty, not the appointing authority’s decision to grant
consent. Nonetheless, as discussed herein, Petitioner does not demonstrate LADWP
failed to exercise its discretion to grant consent. Accordingly, even if
LADWP’s decision to grant consent is reviewable, Petitioner does not show a
prejudicial abuse of discretion here.  


[4] Petitioner disputed Fick’s factual representations.
(AR 16-17.)


[5] As noted during the meeting by the Commission’s
attorney, “the Commission has the authority to reduce a penalty for a sustained
charge with the Department’s consent, and it does not require [Petitioner’s]
consent to do the reduction.” (AR 9.)


[6] As discussed infra, Petitioner does not cite
any evidence LADWP or the Commission lacked a reasonable basis to believe the
reinstatement would occur on or about January 2, 2023. In any event, a
time-served suspension as of December 15, 2022 would also be lengthy and demonstrates
LADWP’s and the Commission’s exercise of discretion to impose a lengthy
suspension and a penalty something short of discharge.  


[7] Further, even as of December 15, 2022,
a time-served suspension would have been 527 days.  Thus, even as of December 15, the time-served
suspension was very lengthy.  
 


[8] Similarly, LADWP consented to a time-served
suspension knowing of these findings and that the Commission had adopted them
as its own. (See AR 28-34.)

