 Case Number:  23STCV24556    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  86 CHHINA v. CHHINA
Case No. 23STCV24526
Hearing Date: February 23, 2024
 
 
[TENTATIVE]   ORDER
DENYING APPLICATION FOR WRITS OF ATTACHMENT
 
                                                                                                                                                                                            
 
Plaintiff, Karmjeet Chhina as Trustee of the Autar S.
Chhina & Karmjeet K. Chhina Revocable Trust dated November 22, 1996, brings
a single application for four writs of attachment against Defendants, Tina
Howland Chhina, Raj Chhina, Tina Marie Howland as Trustee under the Rajdeept
Singh Chhina and Tina Marie Howland Living Trust dated July 10, 2007, and
Rajdeep Singh Chhina as Trustee under the Rajdeept Singh Chhina and Tina Marie
Howland Living Trust dated July 10, 2007.
 
Defendant Tina Howland in her individual capacity and
in her capacity as trustee opposes the application. (The court entered a
default against Defendant Rajdeep Singh Chinna as trustee on February 13,
2024.)
 
The application is denied.
 
APPLICABLE LAW
 
The
Court shall issue a right to attach order if the Court finds all of the
following:
 
(1)   
The claim upon which the attachment is
based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
(2)   
The plaintiff has established the
probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
(3)   
The attachment is not sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
(4)   
The amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero. 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.090.)
 
“The application [for a writ of attachment] shall
be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts
presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.) Statutory
attachment procedures are purely creations of the legislature and as such “are
subject to ‘strict construction.’ ” (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999) 73
Cal.App.4th 76, 79 [emphasis added].) A judge does not have authority to order
any attachment that is not provided for by the attachment statutes. (Jordan-Lyon
Productions, Ltd. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459,
1466.) 
 
An application for the attachment of property
is a law and motion matter. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1103, subd. (a)(2). A
motion “must consist of at least the following: (1) A notice of hearing on the
motion; (2) The motion itself; and (3) A memorandum in support of the motion or
demurrer.” (Id. at Rule 3.112, subd. (a).) The California Rules of Court
do not excuse the submission of a memorandum of points and authorities with an
application for a writ of attachment. (Id. at Rule 3.1114, subd. (a)
[motions for which memo not required].)
 
“A party filing a motion, except for a motion
listed in rule 3.114, must serve and file a supporting memorandum. The court
may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion . . .
is not meritorious and cause for its denial . . . .” (Id. at Rule 3.113,
subd. (a).) A memorandum “must contain a statement of the facts, a concise
statement of the law, evidence and arguments relied on, and a discussion of the
statutes, cases, and textbooks cited in support of the position advanced.” (Id.
at subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff’s application is incomplete and does
not comply with the law. First, Plaintiff failed to file any affidavit “showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.”[1] (Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.030.) The court could locate no evidence in the electronic
file in support of the application. Also, as the complaint is unverified, the
complaint does not constitute evidence in support of the application.
 
Second, Plaintiff did not submit any
memorandum in support of the application. Plaintiff has provided no statement
of the law and no legal analysis in support of his application. Accordingly, as
Plaintiff has provided no legal analysis of its legal theory (i.e., the
elements of a breach of contract and the evidence supporting such a claim)
through a memorandum, the court treats the omission as an admission by
Plaintiff that the application is not meritorious and as the basis for denying
the application. 
 
Given the defective nature of Plaintiff’s moving
papers, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden on the application. The court
therefore need not (and has not) considered the opposition.
 
Finally, the court notes Plaintiff filed a
single application for four defendants. The optional use judicial counsel form
is intended for a single defendant. While Plaintiff modified the application at
paragraph 2 to indicate multiple defendants, no other provision in the
application has been modified for multiple defendants creating ambiguity within
the application and the allegations about the defendants.
 
The denial herein is not on the merits and is without
prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the
foregoing, the applications for writs of attachment are denied without
prejudice.
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
 
February 23, 2024                                                                 ________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff 
                                                                                                     Judge
of the Superior Court


