 Case Number:  24SMCV01307    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01307




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Pico Youth and Family Center




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff PS & RS LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed an
Unlawful Detainer Complaint against Defendant Pico Youth and Family Center, a
501(c)(3) Non-Profit and All Other Occupants (“Defendant”).  Defendant demurs to the complaint on the
grounds that the three-day notice to quit attached to the Complaint is legally
deficient.  Defendant’s demurrer is
unopposed.
 
            The Court notes that the Demurrer
was originally set for hearing on June 20, 2024 as set forth in the Notice of
Demurrer and Demurrer filed on May 13, 2024. 
But the Court further notes that the hearing was rescheduled without
Court approval from June 20, 2024 to July 31, 2024 in violation of the Court’s
Standing Orders which provides in pertinent part:  “Once a motion is reserved and noticed/scheduled,
any continuance of the hearing date must be ordered by the Court -- It is insufficient
merely to reschedule the hearing on the Court Reservation System.”   (See
Courtroom Information, Department 207 emphasis in original.)  As such, the Court advances and resets the hearing
on the Demurrer, and issues the Ruling of the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
2.     FAILURE
TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
The “three day notice to pay or quit” attached to the complaint is
defective on its face, as it does not provide notice as to when, where, and how
the demanded rent could be paid “with legal certainty.”  Code of Civil Procedure section 1161
provides:
 
When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant,
without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the
landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the
lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three days’ notice,
excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing,
requiring its payment, stating the amount that is due, the name, telephone
number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be made, and,
if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be
available to receive the payment (provided that, if the address does not allow
for personal delivery, then it shall be conclusively presumed that upon the
mailing of any rent or notice to the owner by the tenant to the name and
address provided, the notice or rent is deemed received by the owner on the
date posted, if the tenant can show proof of mailing to the name and address
provided by the owner), or the number of an account in a financial institution
into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street address of
the institution (provided that the institution is located within five miles of
the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer procedure has been
previously established, that payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or
possession of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant and if there
is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.
 
The notice may be served at any time within one year after the rent
becomes due. In all cases of tenancy upon agricultural lands, if the tenant has
held over and retained possession for more than 60 days after the expiration of
the term without any demand of possession or notice to quit by the landlord or
the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, the tenant shall be
deemed to be holding by permission of the landlord or successor in estate of
the landlord, if applicable, and shall be entitled to hold under the terms of
the lease for another full year, and shall not be guilty of an unlawful
detainer during that year, and the holding over for that period shall be taken
and construed as a consent on the part of a tenant to hold for another year.
 
The Three Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit attached to Plaintiff’s
verified complaint indicates:
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that you are justly indebted to the owner of
the herein-described premises; and notice is hereby given that pursuant rental
agreement under which you hold possession, there is now due, unpaid and
delinquent rent in the total sum of 
THIRTY EIGHT THOUSAND, EIGHT HUNDRED EIGHTY-TWO DOLLARS AND
TWENTY-FIVE CENTS ($38,882.25) 
This total amount owing represents rent due for the following period: 
 
$7,776.45 due from November 1, 2023 through November
30, 2023 
$7,776.45 due from December 1,2023 through December
31, 2023 
$7,776.45 due from January 1, 2024 through January
31,2024 
$7,776.45 due from February 1, 2024 through February
29. 2024 
$7,776.45 due from March 1, 2024 through March 31,
2024 
 
WITHIN THREE (3) DAYS excluding Saturdays, Sundays and other
judicial holidays after service on you of this notice, you are hereby
required to pay the amount of the above stated rent in full OR quit the subject
premises, move out, and deliver up possession to the owner and/or his
authorized agent.
 
[…]
 
YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED THAT PAYMENT SHALL BE MADE TO: 
LANDLORD/OWNER: PS & RS LLC 
 
Payments shall be made payable to: PS & RS LLC 
Person to Pay: PRADEEP KUMAR SHASTRI (An Individual's Name) 
Address to Pay/Payments shall be delivered to: 
4693 SIERRA MADRE ROAD, SANTA BARBARA, CA 93110
Phone Number:  (310)266-9661
Payment may be made at any time within the time stated: Monday through
Friday 9:00 AM through 4;00 PM. Please note that Saturday, Sunday and Legal
Holidays are not included in the 3-day period 
 
THIS NOTICE IS PROVIDED TO YOU IN ACCORDANCE WITH CALIFORNIA CODE OF
CIVIL PROCEDURE §1161.
 
[…]
 
(Ex.
B to Verified Complaint.)  Specifically,
Defendant argues that this notice is legally invalid because it does not
clearly state the landlord’s intention to repossess the premises and is legally
uncertain because of “the simultaneous inclusion and exclusion of Saturdays,
Sundays and ‘judicial’ or ‘legal holidays.’
 
            With regard to Defendant’s first
argument, as Defendant points out, the Notice states:
 
 …PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that you
are justly indebted to the owner of the herein-described premises; and notice
is hereby given that pursuant rental agreement under which you hold possession,
there is now due, unpaid and delinquent rent in the total sum of THIRTY EIGHT
THOUSANDEIGHTY-TWO DOLLARS AND TWENTY-FIVE CENTS ($3 8.882.25)…, …, WITHIN
THREE (3) DAYS excluding Saturdays, Sundays and other judicial holidays after
service on you of this notice, you are hereby required to pay the amount of the
above stated rent in full OR quit the subject premises, move out, and deliver
up possession to the owner and or his authorized agent…
 
(Opp.
at p. 6 [quoting Ex. B to Complaint.])
 
            Regarding Defendant’s first
argument, the statement “you are hereby required to pay the amount of the above
stated rent in full OR quit the subject premises, move out, and deliver up
possession to the owner and or his authorized agent” is sufficiently clear to
put Defendant on notice of the landlord’s intent to repossess the premises.
 
            Regarding Defendant’s second
argument, as the Court has already determined in connection with Defendant’s
previous motion to quash, the Notice does not simultaneously include and
exclude weekends and holidays.  The top
of the notice indicates “WITHIN THREE (3) DAYS excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
other judicial holidays” whereas the portion of the Notice directing Defendant
where and how to make payment indicates “Please note that Saturday, Sunday and
Legal Holidays are not included in the 3-day period.”  The Court again notes that “excluded” and
“not included” have the same meaning.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Complaint and orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the Complaint
on or before July 5, 2024.
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:  June 20, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court