 Case Number:  23SMCV01097    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01097




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Dalton Barnes




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Sixth Street Realty, L.P.



 
MOTION
 
            This case arises from a dispute
concerning Defendant Alpha Real Estate Advisors, LLC’s (“Alpha”) default on a commercial
lease agreement with Plaintiff Sixth Street Realty, L.P. (“Plaintiff”), for
which individual Defendants Braden Crocket (“Crocket”) and Dalton Barnes
(“Barnes”) signed a personal written guarantee. 

 
Barnes now moves for leave to file a cross-complaint against Alpha and
Crockett for breach of the Alpha LLC operating agreement, declaratory relief,
and indemnity, arising from the breach of the lease agreement with
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 No replies were filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a)-(c).)  
 
Indeed, where a cause of action would
otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party was
negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court.  A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result.”  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   Further, “Cross-complaints for comparative
equitable indemnity would appear virtually always¿transactionally¿related to
the main action.”¿¿(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes¿(1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38; see also Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 799 [“Undoubtedly, a claim
for contribution or indemnity ‘arises out of’ the same transaction or
occurrence as the plaintiff's claim”].)¿
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Barnes seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint against the other Defendants for breach of the Alpha LLC
operating agreement, declaratory relief, and indemnity, arising from Alpha’s
breach of the commercial lease agreement with Plaintiff.  Barnes contends that the request was not made
sooner because until May 2024, Alpha, Crockett, and Barnes were all represented
by the same counsel.  Now that Barnes is
represented by separate counsel, Barnes may seek to assert these claims against
the other Defendants.
 
            Plaintiff opposes the request on the
grounds that it is very untimely and argues that if the Court is inclined to
grant the motion, the trial date of August 19, 2024 should remain the
same.  
 
            Barnes has adequately explained the
reason for the delay in filing the cross-claims.  Because leave to file a cross-complaint
should be liberally granted to avoid forfeiture of claims, the Court finds that
leave is appropriate here. 
 
Regarding the trial date, there is currently no request before the
Court to continue the trial date, and as such, the Court expresses no opinion
on moving the trial date.  Should the
parties make a request to continue trial, the Court will address the issue at
that juncture.    
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For these reasons, the Court grants Barnes’
motion for leave to file the cross-complaint, and orders Barnes to file and
serve the cross-complaint on or before July 5, 2024. 
 
            Further, the Court orders Barnes to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED: 
June 20, 2024                                 ___________________________
                                                            Michael E. Whitaker
                                                            Judge of the Superior Court
 