 Case Number:  23SMCV04287    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04287




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant Ashkan Ghavami, M.D.; Ashkan Ghavami, M.D., Inc.;
  Plastic and Aesthetic Reconstructive Surgery; and Ghavami Plastic Surgery




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Galia Kesheshian



 
MOTION
 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff Galia Kesheshian (“Plaintiff”) filed
the Complaint against Defendants Ashkan Ghavami (“Ghavami”); Ashkan Ghavami,
M.D., Inc.; Plastic and Aesthetic Reconstructive Surgery; and Ghavami Plastic
Surgery (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging five causes of action for (1)
Professional Negligence – Medical Malpractice; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
(3) Fraud; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
Defendants now demur to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action, for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e)
and (f), respectively.  Plaintiff opposes
the Demurrer and Defendants reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services
Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 

 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s causes of action are uncertain
because they are unsupported by specific facts. 
(Demurrer at p. 10.)  But whether
Plaintiff has stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action is
decided under subdivision (e) of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, not
subdivision (f).  Here, Defendants do not
demonstrate that any portions of the Complaint are so bad that they cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against them.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer on the basis
of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                      
i.         
Second Cause
of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
To prevail on a claim of
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary
duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by
the breach.  (Jameson v. Desta
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.)  “A
physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient’s decision when soliciting a patient’s consent to a medical procedure.
(Ibid.)  As part of obtaining that
consent, a physician also has a duty to disclose “personal interests unrelated
to the patient's health, whether research or economic, that may affect his
medical judgment.”  (Moore v. Regents
of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 131–132.)
 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
23. On or about the afternoon and evening of
September 15, 2022 Defendants performed a vertical mastopexy, also known as a
breast lift upon Plaintiff Galia. Defendant Ghavami and all other Defendants
were Plaintiff Galia’s doctor and medical providers and therefore owed duties
to Plaintiff. 
 
24. Upon completion of the surgery, on September
15, 2022 Defendants stated to Plaintiff that the surgery had gone smoothly,
with no complications and no surprises and was completed entirely successfully.

 
25. The following day, September 16, 2022
pursuant to the instructions of the Defendants, Plaintiff Galia appeared for an
examination at Defendants’ office for follow up care and examination. 
 
26. At this point Plaintiff Galia had noticed
that portions of both of her breasts had become discolored. Plaintiff Galia
pointed this out to Defendant Ghavami. Ghavami did not react and told her this
reaction was a totally normal part of the healing process and instructed Galia
to obtain hyperbaric treatment. Plaintiff Galia followed all of Defendants’
instructions at all times. 
 
27. Plaintiff Galia returned for appointments
with Ghavami and Defendants over the next week. At no point during any of those
appointments did Ghavami or anyone else on behalf of Defendants warn Plaintiff
that Galia’s condition was serious or that she was in danger of having her
breast tissue and nipple become necrotic and die. Instead, Ghavami and
Defendants continued to affirmatively and deliberately misrepresent to
Plaintiff that Galia’s recovery was proceeding normally. 
 
28. Plaintiff then noticed that Plaintiff’
Galia’s breast tissue was becoming dark black and again raised the issue with
Defendants and Ghavami. Defendants, including Ghavami told Plaintiff that the
underneath the blackened breast tissue was perfectly healthy breast tissue and
nipple and that once the blackened tissue came off Plaintiff would see that
everything was perfectly healthy. In support of this statement, Defendant
Ghavami utilized a pin prick to show that there was blood flow underneath the
necrotic and dead tissue and told Plaintiff that the pin prick test
demonstrated that everything was healthy and healing properly. These statements
made by Defendants’ to Plaintiff were false. Additionally, Plaintiff is
informed and believes and based thereon alleges that Defendants, including
Ghavami knew these statements were false at the time Ghavami made them. 
 
29. In addition Defendants’ failure and refusal
to tell Plaintiff the truth about Plaintiff Galia’s condition and recovery
after Galia’s surgery, Defendants, including Ghavami, failed to utilize such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of Ghavami’s profession
commonly possess and exercise when treating Plaintiff Galia during her surgery
and recovery. 
 
30. Defendant Ghavami and all other Defendants
continued to mistreat Plaintiff Galia during her post-surgery recovery. 
 
31. At all times, Plaintiff Galia followed all of
Defendants’ medical advice. 
 
32. What was actually occurring and what
Defendant Ghavami and all other Defendants failed to identify or properly treat
was that Plaintiff Galia’s entire right nipple and areola were necrotic,
meaning the tissue was dying and then dead. As a result, Plaintiff Galia’s
entire right nipple and areola died, to the point where they no longer existed.

 
33. Additionally, during the September and
October 2022 time period when Defendant Ghavami and all Defendants continued to
treat Plaintiff Galia and deliberately hide the truth from Plaintiff, Plaintiff
Galia’s wounds in both breasts continued to ooze. The standard of care for
Doctors who practice in Ghavami’s area of medicine is to treat the patients
daily for these types of oozing wounds. But instead of complying with the
standard of care, Ghavami and the Defendants told Plaintiff she should treat
the wounds by herself and that they would not treat her oozing wounds daily and
that there was no need for Galia to be treated daily by Defendants. 
 
34. In response to the entire loss of Plaintiff
Galia’s right nipple and areola Defendant Ghavami stated to Plaintiff that the
loss of Galia’s nipple was “not a big deal” and that Ghavami could easily
re-create a new nipple without any trouble and that Plaintiff Galia should not
consult with any other doctors and should instead receive medical treatment
exclusively from Ghavami. Plaintiff are informed and believe and based thereon
allege that these statements were made by Ghavami and Defendants in an effort
to cover up and hide Defendants’ negligent and wrongful conduct. Additionally,
these statements by Ghavami were false. Even now, Plaintiff Galia’s nipple
could not and cannot be easily re-created.
 
35. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ negligence and conduct Plaintiff Galia’s wounds did not heal and
instead became worse as her window of opportunity for remedial treatment
closed. During this time Defendants made false statements and reassurances to
Plaintiff with the goal of preventing Plaintiff from consulting other doctors.
Defendants’ efforts were successful and Plaintiff relied exclusively upon
Ghavami and Defendants’ medical care and advice and was not aware of the
negligent, and grossly negligent conduct of Defendants until the end of October
2022.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 23-35.)
 
            Defendants contend that because
Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendants failed to disclose the risks prior to
surgery or that Defendants failed to disclose financial or research interests
unrelated to Plaintiff’s health, Plaintiff has failed to state a breach of
fiduciary duty cause of action.
 
            Plaintiff counters by citing to Wohlgemuth
v. Meyer, which, in the context of determining whether the plaintiff had
been reasonably diligent in investigating the physician’s allegedly wrongful
acts, the appellate court explained:
 
The
doctor-patient relationship is a fiduciary one and it is incumbent on the
doctor to reveal all pertinent information to his patient. The same is true of
the hospital-patient relationship.  In
the event of the death of the patient while under the care of the doctor and
the hospital, the spouse has a right to know the cause of death. Withholding
information would in a sense amount to misrepresentation. See Stafford v.
Shultz, 42 Cal.2d 767 [270 P.2d 1], for a full discussion of the
requirement that a physician make full and fair disclosure of all facts which
materially affect the patient's rights and interests, and of the fact that
because of the relationship between the doctor and the patient the patient is
entitled to rely on the doctor's assurances and that “ 'facts which would
ordinarily require investigation may not excite suspicion, and that the same
degree of diligence is not required' ” as where such relationship does not
exist.
 
(Wohlgemuth v. Meyer (1956) 139
Cal.App.2d 326, 331.)  Thus, a physician
owes a fiduciary duty not to intentionally misrepresent or fraudulently conceal
facts about the state of the patient’s health or healing that materially affect
the patient’s rights and interests.
 
            In
Reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s beliefs that her doctor
concealed or misrepresented negative facts about how she was healing from
surgery are not facts.  Whether Defendants
actually intentionally misrepresented and/or fraudulently
concealed complications that arose from Plaintiff’s surgery are factual
questions to be determined at later stages of the litigation.  
For pleading purposes, the Court finds that Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff by intentionally
misrepresenting and fraudulently concealing the state of Plaintiff’s healing to
discourage Plaintiff from seeking additional care.
 
            Thus, demurrer is not appropriate on
the grounds that Defendants have stated –there is no such fiduciary duty or Defendants
did not in fact engage in intentional misrepresentation or fraudulent
concealment.
 
                                                    
ii.         
Second
Cause of Action - Fraud
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges the
specific where (in Ghavami’s office for post-surgery follow-up visits), when
(the specific dates alleged), and how (verbally) the alleged misrepresentations
about Plaintiff’s healing were made.  (See
Complaint ¶¶ 23-35.)  Further, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
59.
Defendants, including Ghavami, each made statements to Plaintiff Galia which
they knew were false and which they intended for Plaintiff to rely upon and
which Plaintiff did reasonably rely upon to her detriment. Defendants’
deliberately false statements included: 
 
a. Orally
stating to Plaintiff Galia in September 2022 that her recovery was proceeding
normally and that there was no need for her to worry or to seek a second
medical opinion. 
 
b. Orally
stating to Plaintiff Galia after September 15, 2022 at Defendants’ office that
Plaintiff Galia’s necrotic nipple and areola were healthy and were not any
cause for medical concern. 
 
c. Orally
stating to Plaintiff Galia in mid-October 2022 that it was no big deal and very
easy for Defendants to create a new nipple and attach it to Galia’s body
without any issue. 
 
d.
Stating to Plaintiff Galia that Defendants were experts in the breast lift
procedure she was hiring them to perform. 
 
e.
Stating to Plaintiff Galia that her oozing wounds in both breasts did not need
medical attention or daily medical care by a medical professional and instead
that the wounds were best treated at home without any medical professionals. 
 
f.
Stating to Plaintiff Galia that she could not seek a second opinion. 
 
g.
Secreting or misrepresenting the facts and information regarding Galia’s
condition in the medical records which Defendants kept.
 
60. Each
and every one of these statements were false. Defendants, based upon their
medical training, knew these statements to be false and knew they had no
factual basis in reality to make these statements to Plaintiff Galia.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 59-60.)  Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Ghavami is the
agent and/or principal of the corporate entities (see Complaint ¶ 11), and
indeed served the corporate defendants via service on Ghavami (see Proofs of
Service filed March 5, 2024).  
 
Yet, Defendants argue that the
alleged misrepresentations were Ghavami’s medical opinions, and are therefore
not actionable.  Relatedly, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to adequately allege Defendants’ intent at the time
the alleged misrepresentations were made. 
Plaintiff alleges that her right nipple was black and had become
necrotic, yet upon examining it, Defendants allegedly misled Plaintiff telling
her it was still perfectly healthy. 
Thus, the allegations create a reasonable inference that Defendants knew
that Plaintiff’s nipple was dying, yet intentionally chose to conceal that fact
to dissuade Plaintiff from seeking additional treatment.  Whether Defendants in fact knew at the
time of the examination that the nipple was dying is a factual question to be
determined at later stages of the litigation.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action for fraud.
 
                                                  
iii.         
Fourth Cause of Action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  Further, the
defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 1051 [cleaned up].)

 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
67. As
alleged above Defendants’ conduct, including deliberately misrepresenting to
Plaintiff Galia the status of Galia’s medical condition and recovery, knowing
full well that such false statements would harm Galia’s physical and mental
health and still making such a decision to benefit Defendants financial
interests is conduct which is extreme and outrageous. 
 
68.
Defendants’ conduct was made either with the intent to cause Plaintiff Galia’s
harm or with the reckless disregard for the near certainty that Defendants’
conduct and misrepresentations would cause Plaintiff harm, including severe
emotional distress and suffering. 
 
69.
Defendants’ conduct was directed at Plaintiff Galia because she was the patient
towards whom Defendants directed their wrongful and outrageous conduct. 
 
70.
Defendants’ conduct, including lying to their patient for their own financial
gain and hiding the actual diagnosis and prognosis from their own patient is
conduct which is so extreme and outrageous as to go beyond all possible bounds
of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a
civilized community. Particularly in light of the fact that people, including
Plaintiff Galia, rely upon their doctors to tell them the absolute truth so
that life and death decisions can be made by the patient. 
 
71. As a
direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ wrongful conduct, and each of
them, Plaintiff has suffered severe and extreme emotional suffering and
distress from the loss of her nipple, necrosis of breast tissue including her
nipple and areola, the need to undergo additional medical treatment and future
surgeries, the loss of hundreds of thousands of dollars spent on medical care,
being lied to by her doctor, being mistreated by her doctor, embarrassment,
pain and suffering, inability to engage socially as well as other economic and
non-economic damages in an amount to be proven at trial, but, AS REQUIRED BY
THE CALIFORNIA SUPREME COURT PURSUANT TO Greenup v. Rodman (1986) 42 Cal.3d
822, 829, the MAXIMUM amount of compensatory damages suffered by Plaintiff does
not exceed $10 million. 
 
72.
These action of Defendants, including Defendant Ghavami were intentional and
done with the express intent of depriving Plaintiff Galia of her rights, money,
and health and with the knowledge by each of the Defendants that they were
breaching their fiduciary duties to Plaintiff Galia and with the knowledge that
their statements were false and outrageous and that their conduct would,
without a doubt, harm Galia physically, emotionally and financially. 
 
73. The
actions of Defendants, including Defendant Ghavami, also constituted a
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of material facts known to Defendants
thereby depriving Plaintiff Galia (their fiduciary) of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury, and was despicable conduct in conscious disregard
of Plaintiff’s rights, and was done with malice, fraud and oppression, so as to
justify an award of exemplary and punitive damages in an amount to be proven at
trial. However, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13 Plaintiff is not
including a prayer or claim for punitive damages herein, however it is
Plaintiff’s intention to move the Court for leave to file an amended pleading
which includes a claim for punitive and exemplary damages.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 67-73.)
 
            Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory, Plaintiff does not provide specific
facts supporting each element, and Ghavami providing Plaintiff his medical
opinion cannot be considered extreme and outrageous behavior.
 
            However,
intentionally lying to Plaintiff that she was healing normally when her right
nipple had become black, necrotic, and was dying off, in order to prevent
Plaintiff from seeking additional medical help, as alleged, could be
sufficiently extreme and outrageous, and done with a conscious disregard for
the probability that Plaintiff would suffer harm, to constitute intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
Moreover, there is no heightened pleading requirement for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress claims, but as discussed above, Plaintiff has
met the heightened pleading standard for fraud in any event.
 
            Whether the
allegations turn out to be true, or whether Ghavami was simply giving his good
faith medical opinion of Plaintiff’s condition, is a factual determination to
be made at later stages of the litigation.
 
            Therefore, the Court
overrules the demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
                                                  
iv.         
Fifth Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress
 
“The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California
is typically analyzed  by reference to
two ‘theories' of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’
theory.”  (Spates v. Dameron Hospital
Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213 (hereafter Spates).)  “[T]he negligent causing of emotional
distress is not an independent tort but the tort of negligence.  The traditional elements of duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damages apply.”  (Eriksson
v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729 [cleaned up].)  
 
“The bystander theory recognizes a duty in the limited class of cases
where a plaintiff “(1) is closely related to the injury victim, (2) is present
at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs and is then
aware that it is causing injury to the victim and, (3) as a result suffers
emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested
witness.”  (Spates, supra,
114 Cal.App.4th at p. 213.)
 
By contrast, “[d]irect victim theory involves a duty owed directly to
the plaintiff that is assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a
matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two.”)  (Spates, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th
at p. 213.)
 
Defendants argue that because Plaintiff was not a bystander to the
alleged infliction of emotional distress, she cannot recover.  But Defendants’ argument ignores the direct victim
theory altogether.
 
As such, the Court determines that Defendants have not raised a valid
basis to sustain the demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer in
its entirety, and orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to the Complaint
on or before July 5, 2024.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 20, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court