 Case Number:  23SMCP00027    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCP00027




MOTION


Petition for Confirmation of Labor Commissioner’s Award




MOVING PARTIES


Petitioners Innovative Artists Broadcast Division, LLC and
  Innovative Artists Talent and Literacy Agency, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves the alleged breach of an agreement between
Petitioners Innovative Artists Broadcast Division, LLC and Innovative Artists
Talent and Literacy Agency, Inc. (“Petitioners”) and Respondent Andrea Tantaros
(“Respondent”). 
 
Petitioners orally agreed to act as Respondent’s talent agent in
connection with her work in the entertainment industry.  In a dispute before the Labor Commissioner,
Petitioners alleged Respondent had failed to pay them the 7% commission they
were owed under their oral agreement.  In
a July 13, 2022, Determination of Controversy, the Labor Commissioner found in
Petitioners’ favor, finding Respondent had improperly withheld commission
payments for a period running from 2015 to 2016.  Petitioners now ask the Court to confirm the
award of the Labor Commissioner.  Their
Petition is unopposed.
 
            This petition first came on for
hearing on March 30, 2023.  In advance of
the hearing, the Court published a tentative ruling denying the petition on the
basis that Petitioners had not shown Respondent had been properly served with
the petition as required by Code Civil Procedure section 1290.4 and because it
was not clear whether Petitioners were seeking to confirm or correct the Labor
Commissioner’s award.  The Court’s
tentative ruling noted the Labor Commissioner’s July 13, 2022, Determination of
Controversy found Petitioners:
 
“are
entitled to 7% commission for earnings connected with the Fox Employment
Agreement and interest calculated at 10% per annum through the date of
satisfaction of the award. Respondent ANDREA TANTAROS, an individual, shall
provide an accounting to INNOVATIVE ARTISTS of all earnings from January 2015
through October 6, 20l6 within 30 days of receipt of this Determination and is
required to remit 7% commission plus interest within 30 days of the accounting
for all unpaid commissions consistent with this Order.”  
 
(Minute
Order, March 30, 2023, at 4-5.) 
 
Petitioners
asked the Court to “confirm” this award in the specific amount of $92,630.04
even though the Labor Commissioner never awarded Petitioners that specific sum.
(Ibid.) However, the original petition states this accounting was never
provided and instead seeks an award of $92,630.04 based on statements made by
Respondent at a September 5, 2018, hearing before the Labor Commissioner in
which she discussed a salary increase. (Ibid.)  The Court noted this information was
available to the Labor Commissioner at the time the July 13, 2022, award was
issued and Petitioners do not claim the Labor Commissioner erred in not
awarding it a sum certain or provide any basis to alter the Labor
Commissioner’s award in this regard. (Ibid.) 
 
The
Court held, “If Petitioners decide to re-file a new Petition, they must clarify
whether they are simply seeking to confirm the Labor Commissioner’s award as
written or are asking the Court to amend or correct that award along with
grounds to do so.”   At Petitioners’
request, the Court did not adopt its tentative ruling and continued the hearing
to June 1, 2023, so Petitioners could “effectuate service and give notice” of
the petition to Respondent (Id. at 5.) 
 
On June 1, the Court denied the petition, finding
that Petitioners had not demonstrated Respondent was properly served with the
petition, nor did Petitioners clarify whether they are seeking to confirm the
Labor Commissioner’s award or to correct it. 
(Minute Order, June 1, 2023.)  
 
On November 9, 2023, Petitioners filed an Amended
Petition, indicating that on or around October 25, 2023, the Labor Commissioner
issued an amended Determination of Controversy, which does not require
Respondent to provide an accounting, instead indicating that Petitioner is
entitled to $88,881.40.  
 
Petitioners now seek to “confirm” this award, seeking
$88,881.40 and an accounting.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he
proper procedure for enforcing [a money award of the Labor Commissioner] is to
first apply to the superior court for judicial confirmation of the award in the
same manner as awards of private arbitrators under Code of Civil Procedure
section[] 1285” et seq. (Buchwald v. Katz (1972) 8 Cal.3d 493,
499, quotation marks omitted.)  Code of
Civil Procedure section 1287.4 provides that “[i]f an award is confirmed,
judgment shall be entered in conformity therewith,” and “[t]he judgment so
entered has the same force and effect as, and is subject to all the provisions
of law relating to, a judgment in a civil action of the same jurisdictional
classification; and it may be enforced like any other judgment of the court in
which it is entered, in an action of the same jurisdictional classification.”
As such, the Court applies the rules regarding confirmation of arbitration
awards to the subject Petition. 
 
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition shall name as
respondent all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other
persons bound by the arbitration award.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)
 
The
petition must be filed and served no less than 10 days and no more than four
years after the award is served on the party seeking confirmation. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) If a petition is not opposed after being duly filed
and served on respondent, its allegations are deemed admitted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1290.) 
 
Until
it is either confirmed or vacated, an award “has the same force and effect as a
contract in writing between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.6.)  Code of Civil Procedure 1290.6 provides that a
response to a petition to confirm an award must be provided within 10 days
after service of the petition, and Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.2
provides that the party seeking confirmation must provide no less than 10 days’
notice of the hearing.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioners
have provided an Affidavit of Service indicating that Respondent was served via
substitute service at her place of work in New York, and thereafter, mailing a
copy to that address on March 19, 2024.  
 
However,
Petitioners seek relief not provided for in the amended Labor Commissioner’s
award (an accounting).  Therefore, the
Court cannot grant the Petition as requested.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing
reasons, the Court denies the Petition without prejudice.  In the alternative, the Court will grant the
Petition if Petitioners forego the request for an accounting which is not part
of the current iteration of the award issued by the Labor Commissioner.  
 
Petitioner shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED: 
June 20, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 