 Case Number:  21STCV35730    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31  HEARING DATE:     June 27, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  Not set                                                          CASE:                         The Redeemed Christian Church of God-Jesus Embassy, Los Angeles v. Mutiu Olatunji Durosinmi-Etti, et al. CASE NO.:                 21STCV35730  DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE      MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Mutiu Olatunji Durosinmi-Etti, et al. RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff The Redeemed Christian Church of God-Jesus Embassy, Los Angeles       I.         PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract case.  On September 28, 2021, Plaintiff, The Redeemed Christian Church of God-Jesus Embassy Los Angeles, filed a Complaint against Defendants, Swift Petrochemicals, Inc. (“Swift”) and Mutiu Olatunji Durosinmi-Etti (“Etti”) for (1) Breach of Contract/Specific Performance, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Promissory Estoppel, (4) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Quiet Title, (6) Declaratory Relief, and (7) Constructive Trust.  On July 8, 2022, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the quiet title cause of action without leave to amend and sustained the demurrer to all other causes of action with leave to amend. On August 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.  After discovery of additional facts, Plaintiff sought leave to add a cause of action for fraud, which the court granted. On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) asserting causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract/Specific Performance, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Promissory Estoppel, (4) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Declaratory Relief, (6) Constructive Trust, and (7) Fraud.  On September 28, 2023, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the specific performance cause of action without leave to amend and sustained the demurrer to all other causes of action with leave to amend. On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Promissory Estoppel, (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Declaratory Relief, (5) Constructive Trust, and (6) Fraud.   On March 4, 2024, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the promissory estoppel cause of action without leave to amend and sustained the demurrer to all other causes of action with leave to amend. On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Fourth Amended Complaint (FAC) for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Declaratory Relief, (4) Constructive Trust, and (5) Fraud.  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.  II.        LEGAL STANDARD  A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿ “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb) [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿   A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿(Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿  Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)¿¿  III.      DISCUSSION A.    Meet and Confer “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  Here, Defense counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.  (See Declaration of Alaba S. Ajetunmobi, ¶¶ 3-4.) B.    Analysis Defendants demur to the FAC on the grounds that (1) the fraud causes of action are still deficient, (2) the FAC contradicts the earlier pleadings in this case, rendering the FAC a sham pleading, and (3) the breach of oral contract claim fails because Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel claim was dismissed in the court’s February 28, 2024, ruling.  The court addresses each argument in turn. 1.     The Fraud Cause of Action is Sufficiently Pleaded The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with ‘“‘general and conclusory allegations.’”’ (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 (Lazar); West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)When the court sustained the demurrers to the SAC and TAC, the court stated, in part, that the causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, declaratory relief, and constructive trust were defective because the fraud cause of action was deficiently pled.  The court identified the sufficiency of the fraud allegations as a dispositive issue because the lease agreements attached to the SAC were fully integrated.  As such, the court stated “the parol evidence rule bars Plaintiff from presenting evidence of an ‘oral or partially written’ lease option” unless Plaintiff could demonstrate that the fraud exception to the parol evidence rule applied.” “[Civil Code] Section 1856, subdivision (f) establishes a broad exception to the operation of the parol evidence rule: ‘Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute, this section does not exclude evidence relevant to that issue.’” (Riverisland Cold Storage, Inc. v. Fresno-Madera (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1169, 1174.) Section 1856, subdivision (g), expressly states: “This section does not exclude other evidence … to establish illegality or fraud.” (Italics added.) With respect to fraudulent inducement, “ ‘It is … settled that parol evidence of fraudulent representations is admissible as an exception to the parol evidence rule to show that a contract was induced by fraud.’ [Citations.]” (Pacific State Bank v. Greene (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 375, 389; accord, Edwards v. Centex Real Estate Corp. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 42; Ron Greenspan Volkswagen, Inc. v. Ford Motor Land Development Corp. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 985, 995.) Fraud in the inducement occurs “ ‘when “ ‘the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable. …’ ” [Citation.]’ ” (Pacific State Bank, supra, at p. 389, fn. 7, quoting Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415.)           After review of the FAC, the court finds the fraud cause of action is adequately pleaded. a.     First Element: Misrepresentation To sufficiently plead the first element, the complaint must state facts which “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)  Here, Plaintiff sufficiently pleads the “how, when, where, and to whom” of the first element.  Plaintiff alleges that Etti represented to the Plaintiff, through Pastor Niran, in May of 2015, that the signing of the lease agreements would not affect the oral agreement for the option to purchase the property in 10 years.  (FAC, ¶¶ 30, 32.)  The court finds these allegations are sufficiently specific. Defendants rely heavily on Beckwith v. Dahl (2015) Cal.App.4th 1039 (Beckwith) to demonstrate the insufficiency of Plaintiff’s allegations.  Although the complaint in Beckwith set forth more detailed allegations in support of the fraud claim in that case, as discussed above, the court finds the allegations in this case are sufficient to apprise Defendants of the basis of Plaintiff’s fraud claim. b.     Second Element: Knowledge of Falsity In a promissory fraud action, a plaintiff needs only to allege facts showing that the defendant made the statement without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.  (See Civ. Code, § 1710(2).)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that Etti knew his representations that the lease agreements had no connection to the oral option to purchase were false at the time he made them.  Further, the representations were designed to induce Plaintiff to sign the lease agreements.  The lease agreements had “merger clauses” which ordinarily would prevent the introduction of parol evidence of the oral option to purchase.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 33, 34.)  The second element is satisfied. c.     Third Element: Intent “Intent is an issue for the trier of fact to decide.”  (Beckwith, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 1061, citing Diamond Woodworks, Inc. v. Argonaut Ins. Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1046.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that Etti intended to induce Plaintiff to sign the lease agreements by representing the lease agreements had no connection to the parties’ oral agreement.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 30-36.)  These allegations are sufficient to survive the demurrer stage. d.     Fourth Element: Actual Reliance “[A]ctual reliance occurs when a misrepresentation is an immediate cause of a plaintiff's conduct, which alters his legal relations, and when, absent such representation, the plaintiff  would not, in all reasonable probability, have entered into the contract or other transaction.”  (Beckwith, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1062-63 (cleaned up).)  “To allege actual reliance with the requisite specificity, the plaintiff must plead that he believed the representations to be true ... and that in reliance thereon (or induced thereby) he entered into the transaction.”  (Id. at p. 1063.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that it justifiably relied on Etti’s false promise that the written lease agreement had no bearing, nexus, or connection with the oral option to purchase.  As a result, plaintiff signed the written lease agreements but continued to act on the party’s oral agreement to make improvements to the property.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 29, 34, 36.)  Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot show reliance because it had agreed to make the improvements beginning in January 2015—that is, prior to the time any alleged misrepresentation was made in May 2015 and thereafter.  The court is not persuaded.  It is reasonable to infer that Plaintiff relied on Etti’s assurance that the lease agreements would not affect the oral option to purchase to continue making improvements to the property.  The fourth element is sufficiently pleaded. e.     Fifth Element: Damages Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s damages are not pleaded with sufficient particularity.  However, Defendants do not cite any authority for the proposition that damages resulting from fraud must be pleaded with particularity.  Here, Plaintiff alleges that its damages include expending money on improvements, renovations, and repairs on the property with the understanding it would have the option to purchase the property.  (See FAC, ¶ 29.)  Damages are sufficiently pleaded. Based on the foregoing, the court finds the fraud claim is sufficiently pleaded.  Plaintiff’s amended pleading makes clear that it seeks to enforce the oral option agreement to purchase the property and to invalidate the lease agreements entered into in May 2015 and thereafter.  Plaintiff has addressed the deficiencies noted in the court’s previous orders. 2.     The Fourth Amended Complaint is Not A Sham Pleading Defendants next argue that the FAC is a sham pleading because the operative complaint does not address the inconsistent allegations that Plaintiff was ready, willing, and able to purchase the property but needed an addition two or three years to gather the money needed to acquire the property.  (See SAC, ¶¶ 37, 53.)  The argument lacks merit.  The court addressed this very same argument in sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s specific performance cause of action in the SAC.  (See Minute Order, 9/08/23.)  The FAC is not a sham pleading. 3.     The Breach of Oral Contract Claim Does Not Fail for Lack of a Promissory Estoppel Claim   Defendants’ argument regarding the breach of oral contract claim is unclear.  Defendants appear to argue that because the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel cause of action, the breach of oral contract claim also fails.  Defendants’ argument lacks merit for two reasons.  First, Defendants could have raised this argument in its challenge to the TAC but did not do so.  Defendants are therefore barred from raising the argument now.  (See Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide, Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 7:34.3, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) Second, although promissory estoppel may be an exception to the statute of frauds, it is not the only exception.  “The doctrine of part performance by the purchaser is a well recognized exception to the statute of frauds as applied to contracts for the sale or lease of real property. [Citation.] Under the doctrine of part performance, the oral agreement for the transfer of an interest in real property is enforced when the buyer has taken possession of the property and either makes a full or partial payment of the purchase price, or makes valuable and substantial improvements on the property, in reliance on the oral agreement. [Citation.]”  (Sutton v. Warner (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 415, 422 [cleaned up].)  Here, Plaintiff alleges through the FAC that it took possession of the property and has made substantial modifications to it pursuant to the parties’ oral agreement.  (See, e.g., FAC, ¶ 55.)  Plaintiff adequately pleads the part performance exception to the statute of frauds. IV.       CONCLUSION Accordingly, the Demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendants are ordered to file and serve their Answer to the FAC within 15 days of the date of this order. Plaintiff to give notice.   Dated:   June 27, 2024                                   ¿ ¿¿¿ ¿ ¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ ¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿    