 Case Number:  24CHCV02575    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  12/5/24




Case
  Name: Lories Haddad v. ROSS DRESS FOR LESS, INC. and Does 1 to 50




Case No.
  24CHCV02575



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

DECEMBER 5, 2024
 

MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANT’S
SUBPOENAS FOR PLAINTIFF’S MEDICAL, BILLING, AND RADIOLOGY RECORDS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV02575

 
Motion
filed: 10/16/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Lories Haddad 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant ROSS DRESS FOR LESS,
INC.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court quashing Defendant ROSS DRESS FOR LESS, INC.’s deposition
subpoenas and imposing monetary sanctions against Defendant ROSS DRESS FOR
LESS, INC. and its attorney of record in the amount of $2,560.00. Defendant
ROSS DRESS FOR LESS, INC. also seeks monetary sanction against Plaintiff in the
amount of $3,445.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. The requests for monetary sanctions are DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged personal injuries sustained
by Plaintiff when she slipped and fell on a clear hanger on the sales floor of
Defendant’s property on September 10, 2022 (the “Incident”).
 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff Lories Haddad (“Plaintiff” or
“Haddad”) filed a Complaint against Defendant ROSS DRESS FOR LESS, INC.
(“ROSS”) and Does 1 to 100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) General
Negligence, and (2) Premises Liability. On August 16, 2024, ROSS filed its
Answer to the Complaint. Subsequently, on October 17, 2024, Plaintiff named and
served Defendant/Cross-Complainant W Services Group, LLC (“W Services”) as Doe
1. W Services filed its Answer to the Complaint on November 12, 2024.
Subsequently, on November 13, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant W Services
filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 20 for total indemnity, implied
partial indemnity, and equitable apportionment. 
 
On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Quash
Defendant ROSS’s Subpoenas for Plaintiff’s Medical, Billing, and Radiology
Records (the “Motion”). Subsequently,
Defendant ROSS filed its Opposition on November 19, 2024, and Plaintiff replied
on November 25, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The court, upon motion or the
court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other orders as may be appropriate to protect the person
from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of
the right of privacy of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).)
 
A.   
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant ROSS requests the
Court take judicial notice of the following documents:
 
1.      Temporary
Restraining Order issued on February 17, 2023, in Case No. 23CHR000301 (Request
for Judicial Notice (“RJN” Ex. “1.”)
 
2.      Request
for Domestic Violence Restraining Order by Lories Haddad and supporting
documents filed on February 17, 2023, in Case No. 23CHR00301 (RJN Ex. “2.”)
 
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the court
in its discretion to take judicial notice of the records of any court in this
state. Upon taking notice of court records, the court accepts as true only that
(1) they were filed and (2) the assertions therein were made; the court does
not take notice of the truth of their contents. (See Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins.
Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day v. Sharp
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 916.)
 
            Accordingly, the Court GRANTS ROSS’s
RJN only to the extent consistent with the above authorities.
 
B.    
Motion to
Quash Subpoena
 
1)     
Legal
Standard
 
While
plaintiffs are not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a
specific physical, mental, or emotional injury, “they may not withhold
information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have
put in issue by bringing this lawsuit.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 864 (Britt); City & County of San Francisco v.
Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 232.)  A plaintiff suing for
personal injuries waives the physician-patient privilege to some extent, but
this does not make discoverable all of a plaintiff’s lifetime medical
history.  (Britt, supra, 20 Cal.3d at 863-64.)
 
When
evaluating invasions of the right to privacy in discovery, the party asserting
a privacy right must establish “(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a
reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by
defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865 (Hill).) A
responding party may prevail by negating any of these three elements “or by
pleading and proving, as an affirmative defense, that the invasion of privacy
is justified because it substantively furthers one or more countervailing
interests.” (Ibid.) “[T]he party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Williams v. Super. Ct. (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 533.) A court then balances these competing considerations. (Ibid.)
As guidance in balancing these competing considerations, it should be noted,
“[o]nly obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be
supported by a compelling interest.” (Ibid.) When lesser interests are
at stake, “the strength of the countervailing interest sufficient to warrant
disclosure of private information var[ies] according to the strength of the
privacy interest itself, the seriousness of the invasion, and the availability
of alternatives and protective measures.” (Ibid.) 
 
2)      Analysis
 
i.                   
Subpoenas at Issue
 
The subpoenas at issue seek Plaintiff’s records within
the date range of 9/10/12 – present from the following:
 
1.      HENRY
MAYO NEWHALL MEMORIAL HOSPITAL: “Any and all documents pertaining to the care,
treatment, and prognosis of said patient including but not limited to all
charts, histories, intake and demographic forms, physicals, doctor’s and nurses
notes, diagnostic tests and test results, consultations, correspondence and
prescriptions in your possession that pertain to the individual referenced
below. Also include all color photographs or copies of them. Also please
include all surgery videos should any exist in your office or under your
control. Please also include all paper files and charts as well as all
electronic files in your possession.”
 
2.      HENRY
MAYO NEWHALL MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (BILLING): “Any and all billing statements in
your possession or under your control. Please include all bills in reference to
treatment rendered by any hospital, doctor’s office and any other type of
healthcare provider. Please also include any and all Medi-Cal or Medicare
payments and any other type of insurance payments regarding the individual
referenced below. Also provide any healthcare provider information. Please also
include all billing adjustments, write-offs, payments, payoffs or any other
types of activity.”
 
3.      HENRY
MAYO NEWHALL MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (RADIOLOGY): “Any and all digital images to
include X-Rays, cat scans, MRI’s, thermograms, tomograms, ultrasounds,
fluoroscopies, and any and all other types of films or images in your
possession that pertain to the individual referenced below.”
 
4.      K.P.S.C.:
“Any and all documents pertaining to the care, treatment, and prognosis of said
patient including but not limited to all charts, histories, intake and
demographic forms, physicals, doctor’s and nurses notes, diagnostic tests and
test results, consultations, correspondence and prescriptions in your
possession that pertain to the individual referenced below. Also include all
color photographs or copies of them. Also please include all surgery videos
should any exist in your  office or under
your control. Please also include all paper files and charts as well as all
electronic files in your possession.”
 
5.      KAISER
PERMANENTE BILLING: “Any and all billing statements in your possession or under
your control. Please include all bills in reference to treatment rendered by
any hospital, doctor’s office and any other type of healthcare provider. Please
also include any and all Medi-Cal or Medicare payments and any other type of
insurance payments regarding the individual referenced below. Also provide any
healthcare provider information. Please also include all billing adjustments,
write-offs, payments, payoffs or any other types of activity.”
 
6.      S.C.P.M.G.
KAISER PERMANENTE RADIOLOGY: “Any and all digital images to include X-Rays, cat
scans, MRI’s, thermograms, tomograms, ultrasounds, fluoroscopies, and any and
all other types of films or images in your possession that pertain to the
individual referenced below.”
 
(Pl.’s Separate
Statement, at pp. 1-4.)
 
ii.                 
Invasion of Right to Privacy 
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas, seeking “any and all [documents],” are
overbroad and constitute an unreasonable violation of Plaintiff’s right of
privacy as they seek disclosure of records beyond the claimed injuries at issue
– specifically, “physical injuries to her head, face, neck, right
shoulder, right upper extremity, upper-mid back, lower back, bilateral
buttocks, bilateral hips, right lower extremity, and left lower extremity as
a result of the subject incident.” (Mot. at p. 8, emphasis in original.)
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff has identified a legally protected
privacy interest in her medical records and personal financial information. Furthermore,
the Court concludes that Plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances.
 
ROSS opposes
the subpoena on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to establish the remaining element – specifically that the production of
the requested records would constitute a serious invasion into Plaintiff’s
privacy right. (Opp’n. at p. 9.) 
 
ROSS
asserts that
the subpoena seeks records that are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.
ROSS argues that the subpoenas were limited to 10 years before the incident to
the present time.  (Opp’n. at p. 4.)
Additionally, ROSS disputes that the nature, extent and causation of
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries and damages, which include 50 separate injuries or
conditions allegedly sustained in the Incident, as outlined in Plaintiff’s
settlement demand letter dated September 17, 2024: 
 
“1.
Cephalgia, 2. Head contusion, 3. Contusion to her face, 4 Possible concussion
syndrome, 4. Acute cervical spine sprain/strain with musculoligamentous stretch
injury, 5. Cervical radiculopathy, 6. Possible cervical disc herniation, 7.
Post traumatic neck pain, 8. Acute thoracic spine sprain/strain with
musculoligamentous stretch injury, 9. Possible thoracic disc herniation, 10.
Post traumatic upper back pain, 11. Acute lumbar spine sprain/strain with
musculoligamentous stretch injury, 12. Possible lumbar disc herniation, 13.
Post traumatic low back pain, 14. Acute right hip sprain/strain with
musculoligamentous stretch injury, 15. Possible internal derangement right hip,
16. Post traumatic right hip pain, 17. Bilateral hip strain, 18. Head injury, 19.
Numbness of skin, 20. Weakness, 21. Right ankle joint pain, 22. Left knee joint
pain, 23. Right shoulder pain, 24. Occipital neuralgia, 25. Myofascial pain
syndrome, 26. Muscle spasm, 27. Chronic low back pain, 28. Cervical spondylosis,
29. Neuritis, 30. Lumbar radiculopathy, 31. Lumbago, 32. Bilateral knee strain,
33. Cervical spine injury with cervical stenosis neck pain, right arm pain and
weakness in the right upper extremity, 34. Traumatic low back injury, lumbar
stenosis with back pain, bilateral lower extremity pain and numbness, tingling
and weakness in the lower extremities, 35. Decreased sensation on the right
side of her face, 36. Bilateral cervical paraspinal region pain, 37. Bilateral
trapezial region pain, 38. Bilateral arm pain, 39. Dizziness, 40. Visual
changes, 41. Right eye swelling, 42. Anxiety, 43. Panic attacks, 44. Insomnia, 45.
Recurrent flashbacks, 46. Fatigue, 47. Chest pain, 48. Nausea, 49. Loss of
balance, 50. Nervousness”
 
(Opp’n.
at pp. 4-5.)
 
            Notably,
ROSS asserts that the demand letter indicated Plaintiff “was having difficulty
with her activities of daily living such as working, lifting, prolonged
standing and sitting, riding in a car, talking on the phone, climbing stairs,
sexual activity or caring for her children." (Kokkinakis Decl. Ex. “M.”)
ROSS further contends that Plaintiff has put her OB/GYN condition at issue by
including “sexual activity” as part of her activities of daily living which
have been affected by the Incident.
 
Additionally,
ROSS asserts that the scope of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries extends to several
pre-existing conditions that were alleged aggravated by the Incident. Those
conditions include pain in her head, neck, right shoulder, right arm, upper
back, mid-back, lower back, right knee, left knee and headaches. (Opp’n. at p.
6.)
 
Moreover,
ROSS points out that Plaintiff was subsequently diagnosed with conditions
beyond those specified in the demand letter. (Opp’n. at p. 7.) The report from
Elite Medical Clinic dated 11/2/22 states that Plaintiff reported she was
experiencing dizziness, visual changes, swelling of the right eye, anxiety,
panic attacks, insomnia and recurrent flashbacks. (Opp’n. at p. 7, Ex. “C.”).
The final report of Ronald Cappi, DC, noted that Plaintiff complained of
tension, fatigue, chest pain, nausea, loss of balance, nervousness, sensation
that her head felt heavy and had eye pain since this Incident. He also noted
plaintiff was having difficulty with activities of daily living including
sexual activity. (Opp’n. at p. 7, Ex. “D.”) Shortly after the Incident, “Plaintiff
complained of vaginal discomfort on a Kaiser follow-up visit from this incident
on 10/24/22.” (Opp’n. at p. 7, Ex. “E.”). 
 
Furthermore,
ROSS contends that Plaintiff’s alleged physical injuries are further
complicated by the claimed emotional injuries. According to Plaintiff’s
response to Form Interrogatories No. 6.2, Plaintiff alleges headaches and
emotional injuries secondary to her orthopedic injuries from the Incident.
(Kokkinakis Decl. ¶ 20, Ex. “B.”) Plaintiff has also claimed emotional
distress, anxiety, pain and injury in her Request for Domestic Violence
Restraining Order, filed 5 months after the Incident, against her husband.
(Opp’n. at p. 12, RJN Ex. “1” & “2.”)
 
The
Court finds that ROSS’s limiting the time frame to 10 years prior to the
Incident is reasonable as Plaintiff has put several pre-existing conditions at
issue.
 
Nevertheless,
while Plaintiff’s OB/GYN condition is arguably relevant to the action, the
subpoenas seeking “any and all [documents]” are overly broad in scope. ROSS appears
to argue that the broad request is justified because “Plaintiff is claiming a
litany of injuries in this case, physical, mental and emotional.” (Opp’n. at p.
13.) However, regardless of the breadth of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, the
scope of discovery is not unlimited. Contrary to ROSS’s position, the burden is
not on Plaintiff to identify what injuries or treatments should be protected.
Instead, Plaintiff must only establish that the documents requested by
subpoenas constitute a serious invasion of her privacy rights.

 
Here,
ROSS’s use of “any and all [documents]” and without any limitation on scope is
overly broad and risks intruding on Plaintiff’s privacy by accessing protected
aspects of her medical history that are unrelated to the issue in this case. Such
overly broad language inevitably results in a serious invasion of privacy. 
 
The
Court also rejects ROSS’s other argument that limiting the scope of the
subpoenas would cause logistic issues for the custodians of records. (Opp’n. at
pp. 10-11, Fox Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) The Court finds this issue unripe for
consideration. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that ROSS has failed to negate the elements
established by Plaintiff or to prove the invasion of privacy is justified. (See
Hill, supra, 26 Cal.Rptr.2d at p. 865.) 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the Motion. Defendant ROSS is ordered to narrow the scope of
its subpoenas. 
 
C.   
Sanctions
 
In making an order pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the
amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion,
including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more
of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).)   
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
actions in bringing the subpoenas were made in good faith.  Likewise, the
Court finds that ROSS acted in good faith in pursuing discovery. Thus,
sanctions are not warranted. 
 
Accordingly, both Plaintiff’s and ROSS’s requests for sanctions are
denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Lories Haddad’s Motion to Quash Defendant ROSS
DRESS FOR LESS, INC.’s subpoenas for Medical, Billing, and
Radiology Records is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff
Lories
Haddad’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
Defendant ROSS DRESS FOR LESS, INC.’s request for monetary
sanction is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 