  Case Number:  23STCV09562    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  39 Guninder
Singh v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
Case
No. 23STCV09562
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Case
Management Conference
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Guninder Singh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against the County of Los
Angeles (the “County”), as well as four individual defendants—Kresimir Kovac,
Brian Yanagi, John Burcher, and Lewis Lim—asserting causes of action for
retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, intentional infliction
of emotional distress, and conspiracy. 
Plaintiff also asserts a claim for punitive damages.  The Court previously sustained the demurrer
and granted the motion to strike with leave to amend.  The Court previously sustained Defendants’
demurrer but granted leave to amend.  The
original complaint alleged that Plaintiff was subjected to a “sham”
investigation, but it was unclear whether the investigation was non-existent
and therefore fictitious, or whether the investigation was real but merely
unfounded.  Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint clarifying that there actually was an investigation.  Defendants again demur to the causes of
action and move to strike the prayer for punitive damages.  At the prior hearing, Defendants’ counsel
argued that there is immunity under Government Code section 821.6, and the
Court afforded the parties a further opportunity to brief this issue.  The Court held a second hearing on the
demurrer and motion to strike.  Now, the
Court overrules the demurrer by the County of Los Angeles to the first cause of
action, which is a violation of Labor Code section 1102.5.  The Court sustains the demurrer in all other
respects and grants the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages.  
 
PLAINTIFF’S ALLEGATIONS 
 
            Plaintiff
is the Director of the Records and Identification Bureau (the “Bureau”) for the
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (the “Sheriff’s Department”).  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 10.)  The Bureau is responsible for the archival,
retention, and release of over 16 million crime reports and booking jackets
maintained by the Sheriff’s Department. 
(Ibid.)  The Bureau also provides
fingerprint identification services for various agencies and departments.  (Ibid.) 
In order to prevent false fingerprint identifications, the Bureau
performs a specific identification process that requires two separate verifications
and approval by a supervisor.  (Id., ¶
11.)  Due to staffing shortages, on
October 1, 2022, Plaintiff met with Brian Yanagi, who is a chief with the
Sheriff’s Department.  (Id., ¶¶ 5, 12.)  Plaintiff “requested a realignment of
services to ensure the integrity of the identification process,” but her
“efforts were shut down by Chief Yanagi.” 
(Id., ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff made a
request “to shorten operation hours as the staffing shortages meant that there
was insufficient staff to ensure the reliability of the results,” but “Yanagi
refused the request and operated the fingerprint section to remain operational
even if only 1 Fingerprint Technician showed up to work the shift.”  (Ibid.) 
In September 2022, the problem became worse when staffing dropped to
three supervisors due to a retirement. 
(Id., ¶ 13.)  
 
            On
December 8, 2022, Plaintiff contacted a member of the new Sheriff’s transition
team to report these problems.  Plaintiff
informed that deputy that “Chief Yanagi was hiding this issue and it needed to
be brought to the Sheriff’s attention.” 
(Id., ¶ 15.)  On that same date,
Plaintiff became aware of a specific incident where “the fingerprint
identification process was not followed and the system printout showed that the
technicians [sic] findings were inconsistent; there was no positive
identification so that technician had voided the transactions and it was resent
through the system to seemingly trick the system regarding the findings.”  (Complaint, ¶ 17.)  John Burcher, a commander with the Sheriff’s
Department, blamed Plaintiff and her subordinate, Lieutenant Anitria Michelle
Tomlin, and did nothing to correct the problem. 
(Ibid.)  
 
            On
December 15, 2022, Plaintiff alerted Sharon Woo, the Chief Deputy District
Attorney, that she was discontinuing the use of technicians for “in-court”
fingerprint identifications, effective January 2, 2023.  (Id., ¶ 18.)  Plaintiff did so because “the protocols were
lacking for proper verification and identification of fingerprints such that
conclusions were not being properly verified.” 
(Ibid.)  Then, in early January,
Plaintiff had a series of communications with Yanagi and Burcher concerning the
problems.  (Id., ¶¶ 19-24.)  Following those discussions, “it was agreed
that the operation was dysfunctional and that 3 AFIS Operations supervisors
could not cover a 24 hour 7 day a week operation.”  (Id., ¶ 22.) 

 
            Plaintiff
alleges that she suffered retaliation as a result of raising these issues.  On or about January 11, 2023, “Burcher
responded inconsistently with his previous agreement and informed [Plaintiff]
that as Director she needed to figure out what needed to be done and it was her
problem.”  (Id., ¶ 25.)  Plaintiff forwarded this email to Sheriff
Luna’s chief of Staff, Jason Skeen. 
(Id., ¶ 26.)  Plaintiff then spoke
to Skeen, who stated that “her requests and staffing needs were being ignored
and that the integrity of fingerprints was a vital public issue.”  (Id., ¶ 27.) 
Skeen informed her that “he was going to file an Equity complaint
against Chief Yanagi on [her] behalf when [she] informed him that she was being
retaliated against for alerting the Sheriff’s Office.”  (Id., ¶ 27.) 
On January 18, 2023, Skeen left Plaintiff a voicemail stating that “he
filed a POE and notified Chief Yanagi.” 
(Id., ¶ 28.)
 
            On
January 20, 2023, Plaintiff received notice that Burcher “was looking for both
her and [Lieutenant] Tomlin to be served with an Administrative
Investigation.”  (Id., ¶ 29.)  Then, on February 2, 2023, Plaintiff “was
served with a sham Administrative Investigation Notification,” but makes clear
there actually was an investigation.  (Id.,
¶ 30.)  Plaintiff also alleges that she
requests for overtime and increased staffing were denied while other
departments, headed by male colleagues, had their staffing needs met.  (Id., ¶ 31.) 
Plaintiff alleges that she filed an equity complaint against Kresimir
Kovac, a commander with the Sheriff’s Department, on November 15, 2022.  (Id., ¶¶ 6, 14.)  Plaintiff alleges that Lewis Lim was Chief
Yanagi’s aid and solicited complaints against her.  (Id., ¶ 31.) 

 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion
to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        First Cause of Action 
 
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action asserts a violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, which
states that “[a]n employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer,
shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information . . . if the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with
a local, state, or federal rule or regulation . . . .”  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5(b).)  Plaintiff predicates this cause of action largely
upon allegations that the Bureau did not receive appropriate funding or
staffing in retaliation for her complaints. 
This is not a basis to assert a cause of action for retaliation because
these decisions were made against the Bureau, not Plaintiff, and she asserts no
link between these decisions and any personal consequences she suffered.  Plaintiff alleges a series of damages, which
includes “loss of retirement benefits,” but she does not allege that she was disciplined,
demoted, or terminated as a result of the lack of funding or staffing.  Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations are not a
proper basis upon which to predicate a retaliation claim, and her allegations
would be subject to a future motion to strike unless Plaintiff’s counsel
corrects the issue.  To the extent
Plaintiff alleges retaliation against Lieutenant Tomlin, she has no standing to
assert this claim.  
 
            Plaintiff
asserts one potentially viable retaliation claim: Plaintiff alleges that on
January 20, 2023, shortly after her complaints and meetings concerning the
problems with the Bureau, she learned that Burcher intended to initiate an
investigation, and she was then served with a “sham Administrative
Investigation Notification” on February 2, 2023.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 30.)  There is temporal proximity, and initiating a
false investigation may be actionable retaliation.  The complaint also alleges that Plaintiff
reasonably believed she was reporting a violation of state or federal law,
i.e., due process violations for those arrested.  Simply, Plaintiff alleges no other act of
retaliation against her (as opposed to the funding and staffing changes to her
unit).  Therefore, Plaintiff may proceed
on this narrow ground—that the Sheriff’s Department subjected her to an
unfounded investigation in retaliation for her complaints—because it is the
only theory in which she asserts damages specific to her.  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer by the County of Los
Angeles.  However, the Court sustains the
demurrer against the individual defendants. 
Labor Code section 1102.5 imposes liability against employers, including
based on the acts of “any person acting on behalf of the employer,” i.e., John
Burcher.  No case has yet resolved the
issue whether there is liability against “individual, nonemployer
defendant[s].”  (See Brown v. City of
Inglewood (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1256, 1263 fn. 5.)  The Court need not resolve that issue because
the individual defendants are immune from liability under Government Code
section 821.6: “A public employee is not liable for injury caused by his
instituting or prosecuting any judicial or administrative proceeding within the
scope of his employment, even if he acts maliciously and without probable
cause.”  (Gov. Code, § 821.6.)  Moreover, Plaintiff asserts no viable factual
allegations against any individual defendant except John Burcher.  The Court denies leave to amend, as the Court
previously granted leave to amend, and it is clear that Plaintiff cannot remedy
the defects in the first cause of action against the individual
defendants.      
 
            The
County argues that it, too, is immune from liability from a claim under Labor
Code section 1102.5, per Government Code section 821.6.  The County argues: 
 
            “[The individual
defendants] are immune from liability for their alleged initiation, conduct or
participation in workplace investigations. 
The County is also immune from liability for these alleged actions.  Under Government Code section 815.2(b), ‘a
public entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of
an employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from
liability.’  Thus, even though Government
Code section 821.6 ‘expressly immunize[s] the employee, if the employee is
immune, so too is the County. [citation omitted].”
 
(Defendants’ Memorandum of
Points and Authorities in Support of Demurrer, p. 13:3-8.)  The Court agrees: If Plaintiff seeks to hold
the County liable for claims pursuant to section 815.2(a) based upon the
acts/omissions of its employees, the County is entitled to immunity.  However, the first cause of action is not
predicated on section 815.2; there is direct liability against the County under
Labor Code section 1102.5 because it is a statutory claim.  Accordingly, whether the individual employees
have immunity is not relevant to the issue whether Plaintiff can proceed directly
against the County.  
 
            Defendants’
counsel cites no authority stating that the County (as opposed to its
employees) is immune from claims under Labor Code section 1102.5 based upon
Government Code section 821.6. 
Defendants’ counsel attempts to rely on Kemmerer v. County of Fresno
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1426, but that case involved only common law claims
against the county under section 815.2.  Because
this case did not involve statutory claims against the county, it does not
support Defendants’ position.  
 
            Simply,
Defendants’ counsel conflates liability against a public entity based upon the acts/omissions
of employees under Government Code section 815.2 and direct liability for
statutory claims.  Absent direct
authority that Government Code section 821.6 applies to claims under Labor Code
section 1102.5, the Court overrules the demurrer.  
 
            B.        Second Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action is for intentional infliction of emotional distress
(“IIED”).  “The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress
are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant's outrageous conduct.  Conduct
to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.  The
defendant must have engaged in conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in
with the realization that injury will result.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Workers’
compensation provides the exclusive remedy for emotional distress caused by an
employer’s conduct in employment actions when the misconduct attributed to the
employer are a normal part of the employment relationship.  (See Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Prot.
Dist. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 160.)  
 
The main issue presented
is whether an employee may maintain a civil action in the courts for
intentional infliction of emotional distress against his employer and fellow
employee when the conduct complained of has caused total, permanent, mental and
physical disability compensable under workers' compensation law. We conclude
that when the employee’s claim is based on conduct normally occurring in the
workplace, it is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Workers’ Compensation
Appeals Board.
 
(Ibid.)  This
includes emotional distress caused by the employer’s conduct involving
termination, promotions, demotions, criticism of work practices and
negotiations as to grievances.  (Ibid.)  “[This type of conduct is] a
normal part of the employment relationship . . . [e]ven if such conduct may be
characterized as intentional, unfair or outrageous, it is nevertheless covered
by the workers’ compensation exclusivity provisions.”  (Miklosy
v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 902.) 
 
            The
vast majority of Plaintiff’s allegations are that the individual defendants
made a series of decisions concerning funding and staffing for her unit within
the Sheriff’s Department, which caused her distress.  This falls squarely within normal work
practices and cannot give rise to a claim for IIED.  Similarly, Plaintiff’s allegation that others
solicited complaints against her or initiated an investigation of her cannot
give rise to an IIED claim based upon the above-referenced authorities.  Plaintiff’s allegations that the individual
defendants subjected her to “ghosting” and “gaslighting” are not specific and
cannot form the basis of an IIED claim. 
Finally, the Court finds that this cause of action stems from the “sham”
investigation and therefore the individual defendants are immune under Government
Code section 821.6.  
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff cannot assert an IIED claim against the County.  Government Code section 815 provides that “[a] public entity is not
liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of
the public entity or a public employee or any other person” except as provided
by statute.  (Govt. Code, § 815(a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.)  Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts to proceed against the County under Government
Code section 815.2, which states: “A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would . . . have
given rise to a cause of action against that employee . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).)  Because Plaintiff has no viable IIED claim
against the individual defendants, the County is not liable under Government
Code section 815.2.   
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of
action.  The Court denies leave to amend,
as the Court previously granted leave to amend, and it is clear that Plaintiff
cannot remedy the defects.    
 
            D.        Motion to Strike
 
            The
Court has sustained the demurrer by each individual defendants.  A plaintiff cannot seek punitive damages
against a public entity defendant.  Therefore,
the motion is strike is denied as moot.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court overrules the demurrer to the
first cause of action against the County of Los Angeles.  Plaintiff’s claim for violations of Labor
Code section 1102.5 may proceed on the narrow theory that the Sheriff’s
Department subjected her to a “sham” investigation in retaliation for her
complaints.
 
            2.         The Court sustains the demurrer in all
other respects.  The Court denies leave
to amend, as the Court previously granted leave to amend, and it is clear that
Plaintiff cannot remedy the defects.
 
            3.         The motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
            4.         The County of Los Angeles shall file an
answer within thirty (30) days.
 
            5.         Pursuant to the stipulation of the
parties, the Court proceeded with the case management conference before the
answer is filed.  The Court sets the
following dates:
 
            Final
Status Conference:        June 27, 2025,
at 9:00 a.m. 
 
            Trial
Date:                               July 8,
2025, at 9:30 a.m.  
 
The parties shall comply with
all pretrial procedures for Department #39. 
Jury fees shall be posted on or before December 29, 2023, or the parties
shall waive jury.  The parties shall file
joint trial documents on or before June 20, 2025.  The parties shall disclose all witnesses they
intend to call in their respective cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all
exhibits they intend to introduce in their respective cases-in-chief, on or
before June 20, 2025.
 
            6.         Counsel for the County of Los Angeles
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  