  Case Number:  22CHCV00801    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 9-27-23 c/f 9-5-23
Case # 22CHCV00801
Trial Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Martinian & Associates, et
al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Margarita Carranza, pro per
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint 
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Defendants Martinian & Associates, et al. represented
Plaintiff Margrarita Carranza in an action against the County of Los Angeles,
et al. for Negligence, Government Tort Liability, and Premises Liabiity
(19STCV05567). According to Plaintiff the case settled for $50,000, which led
to a (contingency recovery) fee of $25,000. Plaintiff expected a net payment of
$25,000, but when presented with the final check, additional “expenses” were
also deducted, thereby leading to a net payment of “20K.” The expenses included
medical “liens,” which Plaintiff contends were never “authorized.” 
 
On September 29, 2022, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a
complaint for Breach of Contract and General Negligence. On January 12, 2023,
Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a first amended complaint for “Attorney
Misconduct.” The first amended complaint contains a conformed copy of a
December 8, 2022, filed “Request to Re-Open Complaint,” as well as a Breach of
Contract, General Negligence, and Fraud attachments. 
 
On March 15, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of
defendants to the first amended complaint for “Attorney Misconduct” with 30
days leave to amend. On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a second
amended complaint for Fraud though the caption identifies additional causes of
action. On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed an “addendum” to the
second amended complaint again with only the fraud cause of action attachment
and additional exhibits, plus new allegations. 

 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed eight (8) requests for
dismissals for the following defendants: Robert Yaspan, Brian Kuhn, Fennia
Hakobyan, Sevana Vatazarian, Philip Craft, Ronald Whittaker, Jonathan Berger,
and D.A. Lucas.
 
RULING: Overruled.
Request for
Judicial Notice: Denied.
The court
cannot take judicial notice of attorney drafted documents. Even if the court
considered the existence of the documents, the court cannot take judicial
notice for the truth of the matter asserted in any item.
 
Defendants Martinian & Associates, et al. brings the
subject demurrer to the second amended complaint for all identified causes of
action in the caption, including Fraud, Conspiracy, Attorney Malpractice,
Infliction of Injuries, Threatened, Frivolous Suit Action, and Harassments, but
later changed to Fraud, Attorney Malpractice, Conspiracy, Infliction of Medical
Injuries, Unfair Business Practice, Oppression/Harassments, and Punitive
Damages via an “addendum” to the second amended complaint. Defendants contend
each and every cause of action in the second amended complaint and addendum
exceed the scope of the March 15, 2023, order, whereby the court sustained the
demurrer to the “Attorney Misconduct” complaint with leave to amend. Defendants
next contend the retainer agreement contradicts the allegations in the original
complaint, then concludes the allegations in the operative complaint remain
“incomprehensible.” Defendants then offer individual challenges to the fraud,
conspiracy and legal malpractice claims. 
 
Plaintiff in opposition challenges the payment of certain
liens from the settlement, maintains the agreements are confidential, contend
fraud occurred in the reimbursement of the medical expenses occurred, the
mediation was untrustworthy, fraud “voice impersonation” occurred in securing
the settlement agreement, a denial of any signed retainer agreement, fraudulent
power of attorney, counsel actually “quit” the case, and improper double
payments occurred. 
 
The court electronic filing system shows no reply at the
time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal
pleading rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to
amend.]
 
In ruling on the demurrer to
the first amended complaint, the court identified an action for
“Attorney Misconduct” in the caption. The first amended complaint itself
contained a conformed copy of a December 8, 2022, filed “Request to Re-Open
Complaint,” as well as a Breach of Contract, General Negligence, and Fraud
attachments. The demurrer only challenged the breach of contract cause of
action. The court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend, with the option of either filing a second amended complaint,
or simply proceeding with the two unchallenged causes of action for negligence
and fraud. As addressed above, on May 12, 2023, Plaintiff, filed a
second amended complaint with the identified causes of action in the caption
for Fraud, Conspiracy, Attorney Malpractice, Infliction of Injuries,
Threatened, Frivolous Suit Action, and Harassments. On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff,
in pro per, filed an “addendum” to the second amended complaint with Fraud,
Attorney Malpractice, Conspiracy, Infliction of Medical Injuries, Unfair
Business Practice, Oppression/Harassments, and Punitive Damages via an
“addendum” identified in the caption. Both documents only contain a First Cause
of Action “Fraud” attachment, with no other identified claims conforming to the
caption.
 
The court declines to address any non-identified causes of
action simply because they’re listed in the caption. The court also declines to
consider the improperly noticed extrinsic items. The court will also not
address the arguments regarding the original complaint, as the argument lacks a
nexus with the operative pleading under challenge. The court therefore
considers the subject motion as one only challenging the identified fraud
claim.
 
Again, as addressed in the summary of the demurrer to the
first amended complaint, the court only sustained the demurrer to the breach of
contract cause of action, and found the negligence and fraud claims were
unchallenged. Defendants elected to forego challenging the subject claims. The
subject demurrer therefore constitutes an improper successive demurrer. (Code
Civ. Proc., 430.41, subd. (b).)
 
Even if the court considered the merits of the demurrer to
the fraud cause of action, the court finds the allegations sufficiently pled
based on the representation of a certain settlement amount without disclosing
fees and costs unknown to Plaintiff at the time of agreement to the settlement.

 
The demurrer to the complaint is therefore overruled.
Defendants are ordered to answer the second amended complaint within 10 days.
The case is now at issue.
 
Motion to Quash and Case
Management Conference set for October 3, 2023.
 
Moving parties to give notice.
 