  Case Number:  23STCV27213    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  19 RULING
 
Defendant Edward Jenkins Realty, Inc. dba Jenkins Property
Management’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED.
Defendant Edward Jenkins Realty, Inc. dba Jenkins
Property Management to file and serve an Answer within ten (10) days.
Counsel for Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
This is a landlord-tenant dispute action. Plaintiffs Robert
Kirts and Joshua Kirts (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring suit against
Defendants Edward Jenkins Reality, Inc. and Paul D. Gerhardt, individually and
as trustee of the Gerhardt Family Trust (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging
the following causes of action:
1.      Negligence;
2.      Tortious Breach Of The Implied
Warranty Of Habitability;
3.      Breach Of Lease; and
4.      Breach Of The Los Angeles County Rent
Stabilization And Tenant Protections Ordinance.
Defendant Edward Jenkins Realty, Inc. dba Jenkins
Property Management (hereafter, “Moving Defendant”) filed the instant Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint (the “Motion”). 
 
GROUNDS FOR MOTION
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 435 and 436,
Moving Defendant moves to strike punitive damages allegations.
MEET/CONFER
The Court finds that Moving Defendant substantially
complied with the meet and confer requirements. (See Erin M. Davis Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
DISCUSSION
I.       MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
436(a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) A motion to strike cannot be
based upon the grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of
superfluous or abusive allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure. (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528-29.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code. Civ. Proc., § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of Central California,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth”].)
“In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general
punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman, supra, 191
Cal.App.4th at 63.) Civil Code section 3294 permits recovery of punitive
damages where, in an action for breach of obligation not arising from contract,
the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has
been guilty “of oppression, fraud, or malice….” (Civ. Code, § 3294(a).) Malice
is conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury to plaintiff, or
despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, §
3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention
on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a
claim.” (Id.; see G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975)
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)
In other words, “[t]he mere carelessness or ignorance of
the defendant does not justify the imposition of punitive damages.... Punitive
damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme
indifference to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent citizens should
not have to tolerate.” (Flyer's Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title
Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1154; see American Airlines, Inc.
v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1051
[“Punitive damages are appropriate if the defendant's acts are reprehensible,
fraudulent or in blatant violation of law or policy.”].)
Similarly, punitive damages are, in general, available in
claims for negligence, but “[i]n order to justify an award of punitive damages
on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) Further, for nonintentional torts, an award of
punitive damages is authorized “where defendant's conduct which causes
injury is of such severity or shocking character that it warrants the same
treatment as that accorded to willful misconduct-conduct in which the defendant
intends to cause harm.” (Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc.
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286–287.) Moreover, “[i]t has long been the rule that
conduct classified only as unintentional carelessness, while it may constitute
negligence or even gross negligence, will not support an award of punitive
damages.” (Id. at 285-286.)
Here, the Court finds that the
Complaint alleges sufficient factual allegations to state a prima facie claim
for punitive damages. The Court finds the allegations that, despite repeated
requests and being on notice of dangerous conditions on the property stemming
from the presence of harmful organisms, Defendants repeatedly failed and
refused to remedy the conditions while simultaneously unlawfully charging
Plaintiffs rent and forcing them to needlessly and repeatedly vacate and return
to the property, (see, e.g.,
Compl., ¶¶ 5-30), are sufficient to
constitute a prima facie case that Defendants willfully and consciously disregarded Plaintiff’s rights
or safety, or subjected Plaintiff to a cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of her rights.
The Court notes that Moving Defendant failed to file any
reply brief.
For the reasons explained above,
the Motion is DENIED.
 
 