  Case Number:  22TRCV00741    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    May 7, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22TRCV00741
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Peacock Flats, LLC
v. John M. Colich and Janine T. Colich, Trustees of the John and Janine Colich
Trust Dated April 30, 1993, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
John M. Colich and Janine T. Colich, Trustees of the John and Janine Colich
Trust Dated April 30, 1993, and John M. Colich and Janine T. Colich, as
individuals. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Peacock Flats, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion for Summary
Judgment and in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                   (1) ARGUE.  Are there disputed issues of fact as to
historical use of the Vanderlip Drive easement area, whether parking in certain
portions of the area obstructs ingress and egress, whether the 1946 deeded easement
conflicts with the 2014 License Agreement, whether a condition precedent to the
effectiveness of the License Agreement has or has not been established, divergent
opinions of non-party witnesses, and the applicability of the relevant
municipal code provisions, and if so are these factual disputes material or insubstantial?

 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
August 24, 2022, Plaintiff, Peacock Flats, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants, John M. Colich and Janine T. Colich, Trustees of the John
and Janine Colich Trust Dated April 30, 1993, John M. Colich, and individual,
Janine T. Colich, an individual, Tate Chung, an individual, June Van Nort, as
Trustee of the June Van Nort, as Trustee of the June Van Nort Family Trust, and
DOES 1 through 50. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Quiet Title;
(2) Breach of License Agreement; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint is based on Plaintiff’s contention that it is, and was, the owner of
the real property located at 100 Vanderlip Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275
(“Subject Property.” (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff further notes that the Subject
Property is located at the dead-end of Vanderlip Drive, with no outlet to a
public street, and noted that the nearest public street is Palos Verdes Drive
South, 1.6 miles away. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff notes that Defendants, John
M. Colich and Janine T. Colich, Trustees of the John and Janine Colich Trust
dated April 30, 1993, are the owners of the real property at 99 Vanderlip Drive
and notes that it also believes John and Janine Colich, as individuals, are
partial owners as tenants in common of real property at 60 Vanderlip Drive.
Plaintiff contends that an easement was granted and recorded “for road
purposes” (“Easement”) over the Colich Property at 99 Vanderlip Drive, the 60
Vanderlip, and 85 Vanderlip property (collectively, “Easement Servient
Tenements”) – with the Subject Property (100 Vanderlip Drive) as the dominant
tenement. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) 
 
Plaintiff
further asserts that Defendants, John and Janine Colich were the owners of the
Colich property and/or authorized to enter into a License Agreement with
Plaintiff’s predecessor in interest, recoded in the Official Records of the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s office on June 17, 2014 as Instrument No. 20140627330
(“License Agreement”). (Complaint, ¶ 10.) 

 
Further,
Plaintiff notes that Defendant, Tate Chung is an individual who was and is a
partial owner as a tenant in common of the real property of 60 Vanderlip, and
is named as an indispensable party. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Further, Plaintiff notes
that June Van Nort, as Trustee of the June Vane Nort Family Trust is the owner
of the real property of 85 Vanderlip Drive, and is also named as an
indispensable party. 
 
However,
Plaintiff contends that despite the easement being expressly designated for
“road purposes,” Colich Defendants have placed “No Parking” signs in the
Easement by Defendants for the purposes of interfering with the use of the
easement by Plaintiff, its guests, invitees, and vendors for purposes for which
it was granted to the Subject Property. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff also
asserts that the Colich Defendants have attempted to prohibit Plaintiff’s
guests, invitees and vendors from temporarily parking or waiting to enter the
Subject Property on areas of the road or the Easement available for parking –
both in person or by leaving notes and/or having directly threatened to have
such vehicles towed. (Complaint, ¶19.) Plaintiff also contends that Defendants
have further expressly prohibited any use of the Easement other than “ingress
and egress.” (Complaint, ¶ 19.) 
 
The
Colich Defendants have now filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication on Plaintiff’s First, Second, and Third
causes of action. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On December 27, 2023, Colich Defendants filed a
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication. On March
1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 2, 2024, Colich Defendants filed
a reply brief. A myriad of associated objections, declarations, and other documents
were concurrently filed with the parties’ briefing.  HOWEVER, Colich
Defendants filed three new declarations with their reply papers, presenting new
evidence supporting their motion to which Plaintiffs have not had an
opportunity to address other than in their objections to evidence.  The Court will take oral argument as to
whether the hearing should be continued to afford Plaintiffs a fair opportunity
to respond to the new evidence.  
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Colich Defendants’
Evidentiary Objections to Plaintiff’s Opposition Evidence 
Overrule: all.
 
Sustain: none.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary
Objections to Colich Defendants’ Reply Evidence: 
Objections to Gordon Leon’s
Declaration: 
Overrule: all.
 
Sustain: none.
 
Objections to Don Christy’s
Declaration:
Overrule: all.
 
Sustain: none.
 
Objections to Sheri Hastings
Declaration: 
Overrule: 1-7, 9-17
 
Sustain: 8
 
Objections to Joan A.
Aarestad Declaration: 
Overrule: all.
 
Sustain: none.
 
Objections to Exhibits: 
Overrule: all.
 
Sustain: none.
 
Objections to Supplemental
Request for Judicial Notice: 
Overrule: all.
 
Sustain: none.
 
 
III. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            Along with their moving papers, Colich Defendants have
requested this Court take judicial notice of the following: 
1.    
EXHIBIT A: 
Deed recorded in the Official Records of the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on July 12, 1945 at Book 22193, Page 227-229
2.    
EXHIBIT B: Deed recorded in the Official Records
of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on November 13, 1947 at Book 25251,
Page 425
3.    
EXHIBIT C: 
Grant Deed recorded in the Official Records of the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on September 10, 2012 as Instrument No. 20121347287, for the
property located at 99 Vanderlip Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275 
4.    
EXHIBIT D:  Grant Deed recorded in the Official Records of
the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on December 28, 2016 as Instrument
20161648581, for the property located at 60 Vanderlip Drive, Rancho Palos
Verdes, CA 90275 
5.    
EXHIBIT E: 
Deed recorded in the Official Records of the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on July 29, 2020 as Instrument 20200851564, for the property
located at 100 Vanderlip Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275 
6.    
EXHIBIT F: 
Grant Deed recorded in the Official Records of the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on June 30, 2022 as Instrument 20220681555, for the property
located at 60 Vanderlip Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275 
7.    
EXHIBIT G: License Agreement recorded in the
Official Records of the Los Angeles, County Recorder’s Office on June 17, 2014
as Instrument No. 20140627330; 
8.    
EXHIBIT H Rancho Palos Verdes Official Zoning
Map (2012)
https://www.rpvca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/5912/Zoning-Map-adopted2012-PDF
[separate page] Enlargement Detail Identifying Location of 100 Vanderlip Drive;

9.    
EXHIBIT I: Rancho Palos Verdes General Plan Land
Use Map (2018)
https://www.rpvca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/12631/2018-General-PlanLand-Use-Map
[separate page] Enlargement Detail Identifying Location of 100 Vanderlip Drive
10.  EXHIBIT
J: California Constitution Article XI Section 7
11.  EXHIBIT
K: History of Rancho Palos Verdes Development from City Website https://www.rpvca.gov/1415/History-of-Rancho-Palos-Verdes

12.  EXHIBIT
L: Peacock Flats, LLC Complaint, filed on August 24, 2022 
13.  EXHIBIT
M: Amended Answer of John M. Colich and Janine T. Colich Verified and Amended
Answer to Complaint, filed on December 22, 2022 
14.  EXHIBIT
N: Peacock Flats, LLC Dismissal of Defendant June Van Nort from Action, filed
on May 3, 2023 
15.  EXHIBIT
O: Peacock Flats, LLC Dismissal of Defendant Central Properties General
Partnership, aka Central Properties from Action, filed on July 21, 2023 
16.  EXHIBIT
P: Peacock Flats, LLC Request for Entry of Default of Tate Chung, filed on
February 23, 2023
17.  EXHIBIT
Q: Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code (RPVC) Excerpts: - RPVC § 17.02.020K
General Residential Code - RPVC § 17.02.025 Conditional Use Permits - RPVC §
17.62.010 - .040 Special Use Permits - RPVC § 17.62.040 Special Use Application
(from RPV Website) - RPVC § 17.68 Zoning Changes 
18.  EXHIBIT
R: Excerpt from What Is a Topographic Map and How Is It Useful?
 
The Court GRANTS Colich Defendants’
requests and takes judicial of the above. 
 
Further,
with Colich Defendants’ reply brief, they filed a supplemental Request for
Judicial Notice of the following: 
 
1.     EXHIBIT
S: Vanderlip Investment Company filing with California Secretary of State,
dated April 21, 1999, establishing the limited partnership and the right of
Henrik N. Vanderlip to act on behalf of the Partnership as its General Partner.

2.     EXHIBIT
T: Oregon Secretary of State Business Name website search as of April 30, 2024,
showing no legal entity registered under the name of Central Properties General
Partnership.
3.     EXHIBIT
U: Excerpts from Oregon Revised Statutes (“ORS”) § 648.005 et seq. regarding
duty of business entities to file registration in Oregon. 
4.     EXHIBIT
V: California Secretary of State Business Name Search website search as of
April 30, 2024, showing no legal entity in California registered under the name
of Central Properties General Partnership. 
5.    
EXHIBIT W: 
Final Order of Denial of Oregon Department of Land Development and
Conservation, dated January 10, 2011, re, inter alia, Tae Hoon Chung did not
have legal authority to act on behalf of joint owners of real property located
in Washington County, Oregon.
 
This Court also takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
IV. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
            Here, Colich
Defendants argue that they are entitled to summary judgment on the entire
complaint or summary adjudication of Peacock Flas’ first and second causes of
action for: (1) Quiet Title to obtain “its rights to full use of the easement”
because Plaintiff only has the right to ingress and egress over the area used
historically to access its property and is entitled to no legal damages; and
(2) Breach of License Agreement because Plaintiff has not complied with a
condition precedent by complying with the Rancho Palos Verdes municipal code. 
 
The
Court advises the parties by way of background that it conducted a Bench trial
just last year where the evidence showed that in 1946, recorded deeds relating
to the parties’ adjacent properties on a private road in Rancho Palos Verdes referenced
mutual easements for “road purposes”.  Accordingly,
the Court has recently reviewed the law of easements, prescription, adverse
possession, and related legal doctrines in the context of ruling after a trial,
which occurred after the Second District had reversed another judge’s granting
of summary judgment.  The Court is thus
cognizant of the value of a fully developed factual record, and of the litigiousness
of parties in property disputes between Palos Verdes Peninsula neighbors.  
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B. Discussion 
 
Quiet
Title 
 
Here, the parties do not seem to dispute that there is an
easement, nor what that easement granted. However, the crux of the issues
between the parties in this matter is what each party can use the easement for
and how much of the easement can be used by either party.  
 
Civil
Code section 809 provides that, “[t]he owner of any estate in a dominant
tenement, or the occupant of such tenement, may maintain an action for the
enforcement of an easement attached thereto.”  (Civ. Code, § 809; see also
Metzger v. Bose (1957) 155 Cal.App.2d 131, 133 [recognizing that
interference with an easement is a cause of action].)  Here, Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges that the Colich Defendants’ “No Parking” signs, leaving of
notes on vehicles, etc., detrimentally affected Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment
of the Subject Property and its entitled use of the Easement and road entry and
gate appurtenant thereto; and hampers Plaintiff’s ability to conduct necessary
activities at the Subject Property including but not limited to the
restoration, repair of and alterations to the Subject Property for its full use
as intended by Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) Further, Plaintiff argues that the
Colich Defendant’s conduct has violated Plaintiff’s Easement Rights. 
 
Further,
Plaintiff contends that on June 16, 2014, the Colich Defendants entered into a
License Agreement for the purpose of allowing said Defendants to temporarily
construct and maintain a front yard garden wall with wrought-iron fencing with
a portion of the Easement. Plaintiff further notes that the License Agreement
provides that it may be terminated by the owners(s) of the Subject Property
“upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ advance notice, in writing, to Colich…in
the event the use of the Vanderlip property is changed or altered in any way
that, in the sole discretion of the owners(s) of the Vanderlip property,
requires a change in the use of the road easement…” (Complaint, ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff notes that such notice of termination of the License Agreement was
provided to said Defendants through their authorized representative on February
25, 2022. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff notes that it seeks to quiet title to
its rights for full use of the Easement, and to establish and enjoin
Defendants’ violations of such rights by the interference thereof – intentional
or otherwise. (Complaint, ¶ 22.) 
 
The
first issue is whether “Road Purposes” allows Plaintiff to park on the Road
Easement. The Colich Defendants argue that the Road Easement is
limited to Plaintiff’s ingress and egress access, not all uses of the entire
50-foot width. This easement was first granted pursuant to a Deed recorded in
the Los Angeles County Recorder’s office on July 12, 1945, thereafter again in
1947, and thereafter, culminating in the Deed under which Plaintiff took title
to the Subject Property in 2020. Plaintiff admits that each of these deeds
identifies the Easement as one “for road purposes” 50 feet in width at precise
locations specified by metes and bounds.
 
This Court points the parties to Laux v. Freed
(1960) 53 Cal.2d 1960, where the California Supreme Court decided a case in which
a plaintiff deeded to defendant, “’[a] right of way over a road as presently
constructed along the East Branch of Sand Creek…’” The Supreme Court noted that
“[I]n Tiffany, Real Property, volume 3 (3d ed.), section 803, pages 322-323, it
is said: ‘A grant in general terms of an easement of way
will ordinarily be construed as creating a general right of way capable of use
in connection with the dominant tenement for all reasonable purposes. ...’”
After Laux v. Freed was decided, the Court of Appeal for the Second
District construed a grant “in broad terms” of an easement “for road purposes”
as creating “’a general right of way…for all reasonable purposes.” (Wall v.
Rudolph (1961) 198 Cal.App.2d 684, 692.) “[S]uch a right …of use [is[
‘limited only by the requirement that it be reasonably necessary and consistent
with the purposes for which the easement was granted.’”(Ibid.; see City
of Pasadena v. California-Michigan Land & Water Co. (1941) 17 Cal.2d
576, 582 [“the grant of an unrestricted easement, not specifically defined as
to the burden imposed upon the servient land, entitles the easement holder to a
use limited only by the requirement that it be reasonably necessary and
consistent with the purpose for which the easement was granted”].)
 
As
such, it is essential for this Court to determine why this easement was
initially granted, and what historical use of this easement has entailed. The
parties here have submitted differing evidence. For example, Plaintiff has
included the Declaration of neighbor Tae Hoon (“Ted”) Chung, who has stated, “I
have understood that the easement over Vanderlip Drive which is part of my deed
as well as the deed to 100 Vanderlip Drive, includes the right to use the road
for all road purposes – including parking as necessary and available for guests
of the owners of the easement so long as traffic on the road is not
unreasonably obstructed.” (Declaration of Tae Hoon (“Ted”) Chung.) However,
Colich Defendants have submitted evidence stating the opposite in declarations
from Don Christy and Sheri Hastings. 
 
On
a Motion for Summary Judgment, it is not for the Court to weigh the strength of
admissible evidence for both parties. As such, the Court notes that such a
determination as to which declarations this Court should give greater weight is
better left to the fact finder at trial. However, Colich Defendants have also
submitted evidence of the License Agreement which states: “On August 2, 1945,
there was recorded in book 22193, page 227, in the Office of The County
Recorder of the County of Los Angeles, State of California a document entitled
Deed, which included an easement whereby the Dominant Tenement was granted an
easement for ingress and egress over and across a portion of the Servient
Tenement. (Defendant’s Exhibit G.) Defendant argues that this document, which
was signed by Henrik Vanderlip on behalf of Vanderlip Investments Company, the
entity which owned 100 Vanderlip at the time the License Agreement was signed,
stated that Vanderlip understood that the easement was for ingress and egress
at the time he signed the License Agreement.
 
Because
Plaintiff seeks to enforce the License Agreement and does not question its
validity, this Court notes that it begs the question on whether this license
agreement speaks to the historical use, and original purpose along the lines discussed
in Laux v. Freed. The Court will seek oral argument as to whether
Plaintiff concedes that, based on the License Agreement, the “Road Purpose” was
actually meant to mean “ingress and egress” or whether a road purpose can or
must include temporary parking alongside the road surface.   Further, this Court would like oral argument
on whether the dueling declarations submitted by both parties, specifically
with Plaintiff’s evidence, creates a material or immaterial dispute to overcome
the seeming concession via the License Agreement that the easement was intended
to be solely for ingress/egress. 
 
Further,
as to the parking at 60 Vanderlip, Defendants argue that because they hold
title to their interest in 60 Vanderlip as tenants in common, each tenant in
common has equal rights to possession and use of the property that is co-owned.
This the Colich Defendants contend they are entitled to use any part of 60
Vanderlip in any lawful manner they choose. Defendants argues Plaintiff has
taken the position that it is allowed to offer “transitory” parking and direct
strangers to the Colichs to use their parking area whenever they please. This
Court notes that the same questions about historic use and purpose of the grant
of the easement are at issue here. As such, the Court requests oral argument on
these points.
 
 
Breach of
License Agreement
                                                      
Next,
Colich Defendants also argue that they should be granted summary
judgment/adjudication on the second cause of action for Breach of License
Agreement because Plaintiff has not complied with a condition precedent under
the Municipal Code. The Colichs entered into a License Agreement in 2014 with
Vanderlip Investment Company, the predecessor in interest to 100 Vanderlip.
Colich Defendants note that the License Agreements contain the following
provision: 
 
This License may be terminated by the
owner(s) of the Vanderlip property upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ advance
notice, in writing, to Colich or to his successor(s) in interest in the event
the use of the Vanderlip property is changed or altered in any way that, in the
sole discretion of the owners(s) of the Vanderlip property, requires a change
in the use of the road easement as described in the Grant of Easement (Exhibit
“C” hereto). In such event, Colich or his successor(s) in interest shall remove
the wall and fencing and shall restore the easement area to its condition
existing before the installation of the wall and fencing prior to the
expiration of the notice period referred to hereinabove. 
 
            (License
Agreement, ¶ 10.) 
 
            Seemingly,
the “condition precedent” identified by the Colich Defendants is “in the event
the use of the Vanderlip property is changed or altered in any way…” (License
Agreement, ¶ 10.) Defendants contend that the facts are not in dispute as to
the Licensing Agreement, and that it is simply asking this Court how to
interpret the agreement since Plaintiff has asked Defendants to remove their
wall and fencing. 
 
Colich Defendants
assert that the phrase “change in use” is a term of art in the field of land
use law. They also contend that no property owner has the “sole discretion” as
is stated in the License Agreement, to determine its own “change in use”
without complying with the applicable land use and development ordinances a
city government may impose.  If so, they
argue that compliance with the Municipal Code must be a condition precedent to
the existence of the License Agreement’s “change in use.”  However, Plaintiff’s Complaint notes that
Plaintiff intends to restore the property to its full use and dwelling
capacity, in order to utilize it for private fundraising capabilities, public
performing and visual arts purposes as well as limited commercial
opportunities. The Colich Defendants note that the property owned by Plaintiff
is within the jurisdiction of the City of Rancho Palos Verdes (“RPV”). Further,
they contend that under the police powers that flow from the California Constitution
and mandated by the Government Code under §§ 65300, 65302 (a-g) and 65358(b),
RPV has passed an extensive matrix of ordinances that govern land use and
zoning as well as a myriad of other provisions that support the health, safety
and welfare of the community. Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code (“RPVC”). Colich
Defendants argue that at current, 100 Vanderlip is zoned for residential use,
and that if wanting to change its use, it must comply with the process put in
place by RPV in its municipal code by applying for a Special Use Permits or
Conditional Use Permits or a zoning change. 
 
While this may be
true, the Court questions whether this places a condition precedent on the
Colich Defendants removing their wall. Certainly, until the changed use was
approved, the work on the property would not be approved or required and thus
the wall would not impede the claimed changed use. As neither party has
provided this Court with compelling precedent on this issue, the Court seeks
further oral argument to make its determination. 