  Case Number:  20STCV23453    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
13, 2024                                   TRIAL
DATE: August 27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         DARRENE
TRIPLETT; DEBRA THOMPKINS, v. CHOICE HOTELS INSURANCE, INC.; RODEWAY INN &
SUITE PASADENA; SHAIL A.; MIKE DOE; SAM PATEL; and DOES 1 through 20,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV23453
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Jala Sai LLC dba Rodeway Inn & Suites,
Sahil Parikh, Mike Mahida, and Choice Hotels International, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No response filed.
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 14 and 15, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move for an order
compelling Plaintiffs to provide further responses to their discovery requests.

 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Darrene
Triplett and Debra Thompkins’s (“Plaintiffs”) claim that they suffered bedbug
bites while staying at a hotel operated by Defendants. Plaintiffs filed their
complaint on June 22, 2020, alleging six causes of action for (1) battery, (2)
negligence, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) fraudulent
concealment, (5) private nuisance, and (6) public nuisance.       
             
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             Defendants’ motions to compel further responses are DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants moves to compel further
responses to their discovery requests.
 
            Defendants provide that they served their discovery
requests, which include form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for the production of documents, on September 30, 2022. (Lee Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant provides that Plaintiffs served their
discovery responses on December 17, 2022. (Id. ¶ 9.) Defendants provide
that Plaintiffs’ responses contained only objections. (Ibid.) 
 
On receipt of a response to discovery
requests, the party requesting may move for an order compelling further
responses for interrogatories (Code Civ. Proc. 2030.300), requests for
admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and request for production (Code
Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right
to compel further response to the requests for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc.
section 2033.290, subd. (c).)
 
Defendants previously filed these
motion as “motions to compel a response”. At the informal discovery conference,
Defendants were informed that their motion was improperly classified. Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision (a)(3),
provides that a party may respond to a demand for inspection with “[a]n
objection to the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling.” Further, a party may move for further responses on the
grounds that “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”
(Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310, subd. (a)(3).) Because the relevant code
sections allow a party responding to a discovery response to object and a party
to compel further responses over those objections, the correct motion here is a
motion to compel further responses. 
 
Thus, Defendants refiled these motions
as motions to compel further. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345, subdivision (a), a motion to compel further responses requires a
separate statement. California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345
requires a separate statement to include “[a] statement of the
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or
production as to each matter in dispute”. Defendants have failed to
attach a separate statement to these motions.
 
Further, a motion to compel further
is required to be filed within 45 days of service of the responses. The
responses at issue here were served on December 17, 2022. Plaintiffs filed
their initial improperly classified motion on March 24, 2023, after the 45-day
window. Additionally, these current motions are procedurally deficient because
they lack a separate statement. Defendants’ motions to compel further responses
are denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants’ motions to compel
further responses are DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 13, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
