  Case Number:  24STCP00706    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  85 
Moore v. Board of Civil Service
Commissioners, City of Los Angeles, et al., 
24STCP00706

Tentative decision on motion for reconsideration: denied 




 



 
 
Petitioner Ivan Moore (“Moore”) moves for reconsideration of
the court’s order granting Respondent City of Los Angeles (“City”) and its
Department of Airports’ (collectively, “City”) motion for judgment. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers and
opposition (no reply was timely filed) and renders the following tentative
decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
Petitioner Moore commenced this action on March 8,
2024.  The operative pleading is the
First Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed on April 16, 2024.  The FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.            
The City’s Los Angeles World Airports (“LAWA”) is a
proprietary department of the City.  FAP
¶2.  LAWA and the City employed Moore at
all relevant times.  FAP ¶2.  
On or about July 5, 2022 LAWA and the City notified Moore
that he was being discharged, effective July 5, 2022.   FAP ¶6.
Morre filed an appeal to the Commission pursuant to the
Commission’s and City’s rules.   FAP
¶7.  Moore sought review whether the
charges in the discharge notice were true and the penaltyof discharge was
appropriate.  FAP ¶9.  
The matter was heard by a hearing examiner who issued a
report, decision, and recommendation on June 20, 2023.  FAP ¶10. 
The hearing examiner determined that Moore’s discharge should not be
sustained.  FAP ¶11.  The hearing examiner’s report identified that
the parties stipulated that Skelly’s requirements had been met, none of
the charges or the penaly were sustained. 
The City’s only evidence was hearsay, which is not sufficient by itself
to prove a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in a civil
action.  FAP ¶12.
The Commission thereafter considered the hearing examiner’s
report.  FAP ¶13.  On December 14, 2023, the Commission adopted
findings and conclusions opposite from its hearing examiner.  FAP ¶14. 
On January 8, 2024, the Commission sustained LAWA’s decision to
discharge.  FAP ¶15, Ex. 1.  
Moore seeks mandamus with respect to the Commission’s
decision as not supported by the findings and the findings are not supported by
the weight of the evidence.  FAP
¶17.  The Commission also failed to
provide an analytical bridge from the evidence to its final conclusion.  FAP ¶18.  
The Commission further did not proceed in the manner required by law.  FAP ¶19.
Moore has exhausted all administrative remedies by filing
and pursuing and appeal.  FAP ¶22.   Pursuant to the City’s Charter section 1017,
Moore has filed a Demand for Reinstatement with the Commission (Ex. 2) and a
Clam for Compensation with the City Clerk (Ex. 3).  FAP ¶23.
Moore prays for a writ of mandate requiring the Commission
to reverse the decision, and ordering full benefits and back pay from the date
of discharge, as well as attorney’s fees and costs of suit.  FAP at Prayer 1.  
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On April 16, 2024, a proof of service on file shows that
Moore served the FAP via personal service on the Commission’s authorized agent,
Brenda Salgado, and via personal service on the authorized agent of the City
and LAWA.
On June 11, 2024, the court overruled the City’s demurrer to
the FAP, ordering that it would have 20 days to answer only.  The City answered on June 27, 2024. 
On August 8, 2024, the court granted the City’s motion for
judgment. 
 
B. Governing Law
1. City Charter
Section 1016
“Any board or
officer having the power of appointment shall have the power to suspend or
discharge any officer, member or employee of the office or department. No
person in the classified civil service shall be discharged or suspended except
for cause, which shall be stated in writing by the board or officer having the
power to make such discharge or suspension.” 
City Charter §1016(a) (discharge or suspension for cause).
“The written
statement of cause shall be filed with the Board of Civil Service
Commissioners, with certification that a copy has been served upon the person
so discharged or suspended, in accordance with Section 1018. Upon filing with
the board, the discharge or suspension shall take effect.”  City Charter §1016(b) (statement of cause).
“Within five days of
service of the written statement upon any person so discharged or suspended,
the person shall file a written application with the board in order to require
the board to hold a hearing to investigate the grounds for the discharge or suspension.
In the event that the person does not file an application, the board may, but
is not required to, within 15 days after the filing of the written statement
with the board, determine to hold a hearing to investigate the grounds for the
discharge or suspension.”  City Charter
§1016(c) (application for hearing).
“If, after
investigation and hearing as required by law is held, the board finds, in
writing, that the grounds stated for the discharge or suspension were
insufficient or were not sustained, the board shall order the person to be
reinstated or restored to duty. With the consent of the appointing authority,
the board may also reduce the length of the suspension, or may substitute
suspension for discharge, if the board makes a written finding that such action
is warranted. The order of the board with respect to the discharge or
suspension shall be promptly certified to the appointing board or officer, and
shall be final and conclusive.”  City
Charter §1016(d) (reinstatement; restoration).
“If the board orders
reinstatement or restoration to duty of a person who has been discharged or
suspended, the person shall be entitled to receive compensation from the City
the same as if he or she had not been discharged or suspended by the appointing
board or officer.”  City Charter §1016(e)
(compensation).
 
2. City Charter
Section 1017
“Whenever it is
claimed by any person that he or she has been unlawfully demoted, suspended,
laid off or discharged, and that person has filed an application for a hearing
as provided in Section 1016(c) and reinstatement or restoration to duty has
been denied, the person may file a written claim for compensation and a
demand for reinstatement. The claim and demand must be filed within 90 days
from the date of the decision of the board following a hearing, or if no
hearing is applied for, from the date on which it is claimed that the person
was first illegally, wrongfully or invalidly demoted, laid off, suspended or
discharged. The demand for reinstatement must be filed with the board and
the claim for compensation must be filed with the City Clerk. Failure to file a
demand for reinstatement with proof of filing with the board, within the time
specified in this section, shall be a bar to any action to compel
reinstatement.  Proof of filing with the
City Clerk of the claim for compensation within the time and in the manner
specified shall be a condition precedent to any recovery of wages or salary
claimed to be due on account of demotion, layoff, suspension or discharge.
Except as provided in this section, claims for compensation shall conform to
the requirements of Section 350.”  City
Charter §1017 (emphasis added).
 
C. Motion for Reconsideration
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008(a) (“section 1008(a)”) provides for reconsideration of
court orders.  Section 1008(a)’s motion
to reconsider is broad in scope and allows any party affected by the order to
seek reconsideration and modification, amendment, or vacation of prior
orders.  Relief under section 1008(a) is
strictly limited.  Motions to reconsider
must be brought within ten days of service of written notice of the original
order and the party making the application for
reconsideration “shall state by affidavit what application was made before,
when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or
different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”  §1008(a). 
A motion for
reconsideration constitutes the exclusive means for a party seeking
modification, amendment or revocation of an order.  Morite of Calif. v. Superior Court,
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 485, 490.  To be
entitled to reconsideration, a party must show (1) new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, and (2) a satisfactory explanation for failing to
produce such evidence earlier.  Kalivas
v. Barry Controls Corp., (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1160-61.  The requirement of satisfactory explanation
for failing to provide the evidence earlier can only be described as a
strict requirement of diligence.  Garcia
v. Hejmadi, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690. 
A motion for reconsideration cannot be granted on the ground that the
court misapplied the law in its initial ruling. 
Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.
Apart from the parties, the court has
inherent power to reconsider its rulings in a particular case for any
reason.  Darling, Hall & Rae v.
Kritt, (1999) 75 Cal.App. 4th 1148.  The court may even entertain suggestions from
the parties for such sua sponte reconsideration.  However, the inherent power to reconsider,
unlike the power under section 1008, is entirely up to the court.  Other than a “suggestion,” the court need
not, and will not, entertain argument from a party as to why it should exercise
this inherent power.   
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner moves for
reconsideration of the court’s order granting City’s motion for judgment.  A motion to reconsider is a two-part analysis:
(1) whether the court should reconsider and (2) if so, the merits of the
reconsideration.   
 
1. Timeliness
The court granted the City’s motion for judgment on August
8, 2024.  The City’s counsel was directed
to give notice of this ruling.  No proof
of notice is on file.  Moore’s motion was
filed on August 22, 2024, and therefore is deemed to be timely.
 
2. Procedural Failures
The party making the motion for
reconsideration “shall state by affidavit what application was made before,
when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or
different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”  §1008(a).  Petitioner Moore fails to present a declaration
complying with this requirement and the motion is invalid.  See Branner
v. Regents of University of California, (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048-49.
Additionally, the City is correct that
Moore has failed to present a motion based on “new or different facts, circumstances
or law” as required by section 1008(a).  Opp.
at 5.  Instead, Moore argues that a case
cited in the City’s moving papers, Mota v. Tri-City Healthcare Dist.,
(“Mota”) (2021) 565 F. Supp. 3d 1207, actually supports his position,
which he reiterates that he complied with City Charter section 1017.  Mot. at 2.
At the hearing on the City’s motion, the court concluded
that Moore’s demand for reinstatement amounts to a misdirected claim similar to
the claim in Mota, which did not reach the body which would decide the
demand.  Erroneous or not, the court
addressed Mota in its ruling on the City’s motion.  Moore has presented no new facts,
circumstances, or law to support reconsideration.  Similarly, he has not shown due diligence for
failing to present any new matter at the first hearing.  See Garcia v. Hejmadi,
supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at 690.
As Moore’s motion fails to comply with
section 1008(a), the court need not reach the second step of the process to
consider the merits.  The motion for
reconsideration is denied.