 Case Number:  23PSCV03764    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Russell
Gilliam, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al. 
1
– Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Lydia Gilliam’s
Deposition; and
2
– Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Russell Gilliam’s
Deposition 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court CONTINUES the hearings on Defendant Ford Motor Company’s
motions to compel Plaintiffs Lydia Gilliam and Russell Gilliams’ depositions,
and orders the parties to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
videoconference. If the parties are unable to resolve the issues underlying
these motions, the Court directs the parties to request an Informal Discovery
Conference. 
            Defendant Ford Motor Company is
ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this
order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a lemon law case. On December 5, 2023, plaintiffs Russell
Gilliam (Russell) and Lydia Gilliam (Lydia) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed
this action against defendants Ford Motor Company (Ford), Puente Hills Ford,
and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for violation of subdivision
(d) of Civil Code section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code
section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code sections 1793.2,
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, and negligent repair. 
On September 5, 2024, Ford moved to compel the depositions of Plaintiffs.
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the motions. On September 26, 2024, Ford
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following:
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025, subds. (a), (b).)
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (b)(2), Ford was required to meet and confer with
Plaintiffs before bringing this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2).) The Court finds Ford’s efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as
there is no indication that Ford attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiffs
after they objected to and did not appear at their depositions on June 6, 2024.
(Moawad Decls., ¶ 7.) The Court does not find Ford’s efforts to meet and confer
regarding the prior depositions set for February 29, 2024, to be sufficient
since it does not address Plaintiffs’ purported failures with respect to the
June 6, 2024 depositions. (Moawad Decls., ¶ 4.) The Court will therefore
continue the hearings on these motions and order the parties to meet and confer.
If the parties are unable to informally resolve the issues underlying these
motions, the Court directs the parties to request an informal discovery
conference. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court CONTINUES the hearings on Defendant Ford Motor Company’s
motions to compel Plaintiffs Lydia Gilliam and Russell Gilliams’ depositions,
and orders the parties to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
videoconference. If the parties are unable to resolve the issues underlying
these motions, the Court directs the parties to request an Informal Discovery
Conference. 
            Defendant Ford Motor Company is
ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this
order.