  Case Number:  20STCV11677    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Nobia  Joyce v. Shawn M. Millner, et al.  Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Laurence Todd’s Motion for an Order of Dismissal with Prejudice as to  Plaintiff’s Causes of Action for Quiet Title and Partition  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendant/Cross-Complainant Laurence Todd’s  motion for an order of dismissal with prejudice as to Plaintiff’s causes of  action for quiet title and partition.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a quiet title action. On March 20, 2020, plaintiff Nobia  Joyce (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shawn M. Millner, the  Shawn Marie Millner Revocable Trust (collectively, Millner), Laurence Todd  (Todd) (Millner and Todd may be collectively referred to as Defendants), and  Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for quiet title, partition,  declaratory relief, and ejectment and damages.  On November 29, 2022, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against  Plaintiff, Stephen R. Golden, Stephen R. Golden & Associates, P.C., and  Does 1 through 20. On February 2, 2024, Defendants filed the operative Second  Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC) against the same parties, alleging causes of  action for breach of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement, breach of the  covenant of good faith of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement, fraud (No. 1),  breach of the August 2018 Co-signor agreement, breach of the covenant of good  faith breach [sic] of the August 2018 Co-tenant [sic]  agreement, fraud (No. 2), assault, battery, false imprisonment, negligent  infliction of emotional distress, intentional infliction of emotional distress,  slander of title, fraud (No. 3), invasion of privacy, unjust enrichment,  comparative indemnity, apportionment of fault, breach of the May 2023  Settlement Agreement, and breach of the covenant of good faith of the May 2023  Settlement Agreement. On August 27, 2024, the Court dismissed cross-defendants  Stephen R. Golden and Stephen R. Golden & Associates, P.C., from the SACC  without prejudice.  On August 28, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the First and Second  Causes of Action for quiet title and partition as to Defendant Todd without  prejudice.  On August 30, 2024, Todd moved to dismiss Plaintiff’s causes of  action for quiet title and partition with prejudice. On September 24, 2024,  Plaintiff opposed the motion. On September 30, 2024, Todd replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “A plaintiff may dismiss his or her complaint, or any  cause of action asserted in it, in its entirety, or as to any defendant or  defendants, with or without prejudice prior to the actual commencement of  trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (c).) “The right of a plaintiff to  voluntarily dismiss an action before commencement of trial is not absolute.  Code of Civil Procedure section 581 recognizes exceptions to the right; other  limitations have evolved through the courts' construction of the term ‘commencement  of trial.’ These exceptions generally arise where the action has proceeded to a  determinative adjudication, or to a decision that is tantamount to an  adjudication.” (Harris v. Billings (1993) 16  Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402 (Harris).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes that the deadline  for Plaintiff’s opposition was September 23, 2024, but Plaintiff did not file  the opposition until September 24, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff’s opposition is therefore untimely. The Court exercises its  discretion to still consider the opposition, but nevertheless admonishes  Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going  forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash  Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments              Defendant Todd seeks a dismissal  with prejudice of Plaintiff’s claims for quiet title and partition under Code  of Civil Procedure section 581, based on the Court’s ruling regarding  Plaintiff’s disability accommodation request, in which the Court denied  Plaintiff’s request to limit Todd’s ability to personally appear at and  participate in the trial later held on September 9, 2024. Todd contends this  ruling precluded Plaintiff from voluntarily dismissing any causes of action against  Todd, and that the Court should instead dismiss Plaintiff’s quiet title and  partition claims against Todd with prejudice.              In opposition, Plaintiff contends  that the denial of her disability accommodation request does not constitute a  trial for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 581, since it was not a  case ending decision like a demurrer sustained without leave to amend or a  motion for summary judgment that was going to be granted. Plaintiff also contends  that Todd has a history of seeking meritless dismissals with prejudice, and  this motion is no different.              In reply, Todd contends Plaintiff  admitted in court that Todd owned no interest in the subject property, which  was tantamount to an adjudication.  Analysis                        The Court agrees with Plaintiff. The  Court’s ruling on Plaintiff’s accommodation request on August 27, 2024, was not  a case-ending decision, like a demurrer sustained without leave to amend. (Minute  Order (8/27/24); Harris, supra, 16 Cal.App.4th at p.  1402.) It was simply a request for accommodations for Plaintiff during the  administration of the trial itself. (Minute Order (8/27/24).) Any purported  admission Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel may have made during the hearing on  Plaintiff’s accommodation request is not tantamount to an adjudication. (See Harris, supra, 16 Cal.App.4th at p. 1402.) Plaintiff  therefore was fully within her right to dismiss her causes of action for quiet  title and partition against Todd without prejudice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,  subd. (c).)  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Defendant/Cross-Complainant Laurence Todd’s  motion for an order of dismissal with prejudice as to Plaintiff’s causes of  action for quiet title and partition.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.