 Case Number:  23PSCV00285    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Jane  Doe, et al. v. Glendora Unified School District, et al.  Plaintiff’s  Motion for Issue, Evidence, Terminating, and Monetary Sanctions in the Amount  of $1,460; to Strike Defendant’s Answer  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for issue, evidence,  terminating, and monetary sanctions and to strike Defendant’s answer. The Court  DENIES Defendant Glendora Unified School District’s counter request for  monetary sanctions.               Defendant Glendora Unified School  District is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar  days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This case arises from a sexual assault. On January 1, 2023,  Plaintiffs Jane Doe (Daughter), a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,  Jane GA Doe, and Jane GA Doe, individually (Mother) (collectively, Plaintiffs),  filed this action. On July 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First  Amended Complaint against Defendants Glendora Unified School District (GUSD),  Cullen Elementary School, Sandberg Elementary School, Cheryl Bonner (Bonner),  Virginia Kelsen (Kelsen),[1] and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for negligent supervision of  students, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention, intentional  infliction of emotional distress (x 2), and negligent infliction of emotional  distress (x 2).  On August 30, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for issue, evidence,  terminating, and monetary sanctions against GUSD. On September 23, 2024, GUSD  opposed the motion. Plaintiffs did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The court is authorized, after notice and an opportunity for  hearing, to impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct  that is a misuse of the discovery process: monetary sanctions, issue sanctions,  evidence sanctions, terminating sanctions, and contempt. (Code Civ. Proc.,  §¿2023.030, subds. (a)-(e).) A terminating sanction may be imposed by an order  dismissing the action of the party that brought the action. (Id., §  2023.030, subd. (d)(3).) “The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to  discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the  ultimate sanction of termination. [Citation.]” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors,  Inc.¿(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (Doppes); see J.W. v.  Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th  1142, 1169.) If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is  warranted. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) “Discovery  sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed what  is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied  discovery.’” (Ibid.) “But where a violation is willful, preceded by a  history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not  produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in  imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid., quoting Mileikowsky v. Tenet  Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky); Creed-21  v. City of Wildomar¿(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702, quoting Doppes  and Mileikowsky.) The court should consider the totality of the circumstances,  including conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful, the  determent to the propounding party, and the number of formal and informal  attempts to obtain discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th  1225, 1246.) Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly, but are  justified where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and  there is evidence that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with  the discovery rules. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an express  finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the  required discovery responses. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles  County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118 (Fairfield).) The party who  failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that the  failure was not willful. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,  788 (Deyo); Cornwall v. Santa Monica Dairy Co. (1977) 66  Cal.App.3d 250, 252-253.) Code of Civil Procedure, section 2023.010, subdivisions (d) and  (f) provide that a misuse of the discovery process includes, but is not limited  to, “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery”  and “[m]aking an evasive response to discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,  subds. (d), (f).) DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is generally not required before  bringing a motion for sanctions, this Court does request that parties attempt  to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or video conference before filing  any motions. (See Dept. 6 Courtroom Information, p. 2.) The Court finds  Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient for purposes of this motion.  (Romero Decl., ¶ 16.)              Summary of Arguments  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to impose issue, evidentiary, terminating, and monetary sanctions  against GUSD on the grounds that GUSD violated the Court’s May 23, 2024 order  by not filing a motion requesting relief from its waiver of objections in the  months following that order. Plaintiffs contend that even though the Court  found GUSD waived its objections in response to the underlying discovery  requests, some of GUSD’s responses contain only objections.  In  opposition, GUSD contends Plaintiffs have provided no evidence or legal  authority to support their claims. GUSD contends it has not violated any court  order, as the Court’s order did not require GUSD to provide additional or  amended responses. GUSD notes that it has made numerous efforts to resolve the  waiver of objections issue without court intervention. GUSD contends  Plaintiffs’ motion is effectively a motion to compel further responses, that  Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer on a demand for further or amended  responses since the parties were working to resolve the objections, and that  Plaintiffs cannot show a proper meet and confer because the parties were close  to an agreement on these issues. GUSD further notes that Plaintiffs’ motion  does not contain a separate statement.  Analysis              The Court finds Plaintiffs’ motion  not well taken. First, GUSD did not violate the Court’s order issued on May 23,  2024. That order only directed GUSD to pay $660.00 in monetary sanctions for  failure to timely respond to Mother’s Requests for Admission, and denied  Mother’s discovery motions in all other respects. (Order re Tentative Ruling  (5/21/24).) The order did not require GUSD to affirmatively file a motion for  relief from those waivers, but only stated that if GUSD wished to  obtain relief from those waivers, it would have to do so via noticed motion and  otherwise provide substantially compliant responses. (Order re Tentative Ruling  (5/21/24), italics added.) To the extent that Plaintiffs are complaining about  the responses GUSD did provide, Plaintiffs’ remedy would have been to file a  motion to compel further responses, not a motion for sanctions. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310.)              Second, GUSD correctly notes that  Plaintiffs did not provide a separate statement, which is required for a motion  for issue and evidentiary sanctions. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd.  (a)(7).) The failure to provide a separate statement is sufficient grounds by  itself to deny the motion, at least with respect to the requests for issue and  evidentiary sanctions. (See Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.) GUSD also correctly notes that Plaintiffs’  motion does not set forth the parameters of the requested issue and evidentiary  sanctions that they seek. (See generally, Notice and Motion.) Further, the Court  does not find that GUSD abused the discovery process. Accordingly, the Court  DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion.              With respect to monetary sanctions,  the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ requests given that they are not the prevailing  parties on this motion. The Court also DENIES GUSD’s counter request for  monetary sanctions since GUSD did not identify in its opposition against whom  it seeks the Court to impose the monetary sanctions. (Opp., 10:20-22; Code Civ.  Proc., § 2023.040.)  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for issue, evidence,  terminating, and monetary sanctions and to strike Defendant’s answer. The Court  DENIES Defendant Glendora Unified School District’s counter request for  monetary sanctions.               Defendant Glendora Unified School  District is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar  days of this order.     