 Case Number:  24PSCV00487    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Donald  Alan Newcomb v. John Anthony Garduno Protic, et al.  Plaintiff’s  Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file First  Amended Complaint. Plaintiff must file and serve the proposed First Amended  Complaint within five days of the Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a personal injury action. On February 16, 2024, plaintiff Donald  Alan Newcomb (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants John Anthony  Garduno Protic (Protic), PDQ Enterprises, Inc., and Does 1 to 50, alleging  causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence. On April 26, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a Doe amendment naming Ferreira Coastal Construction Co. (Ferreira)  as a defendant. On July 2, 2024, defendant PDQ Enterprises, Inc. was dismissed  per stipulation of the parties.  On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to file a First  Amended Complaint. On September 30, 2024, Protic opposed the motion. On September  30, 2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Code of Civil  Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,  after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an  amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like  terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) This discretion should be exercised liberally  in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed  matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court  (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Under Rule  3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a  pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended  pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous  pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading  are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line  number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are  proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  Under Rule  3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate  declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the  amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts  giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why  the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1324, subd. (b).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              Plaintiff’s moving papers and  Protic’s opposition are both untimely per the October 7, 2024, hearing date.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Nevertheless, the Court exercises its  discretion to still consider the motion, but admonishes the parties to comply  with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018)  24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiff seeks leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC)  adding a claim for punitive damages and an allegation that Protic fled the  scene of the accident in violation of Vehicle Code section 20002, subdivision  (a). Plaintiff contends these proposed amendments allow Plaintiff to pursue  punitive damages against Protic and Ferreira. Plaintiff contends the proposed  amendment is necessary and proper to bolster allegations in the original  complaint and add a demand for punitive damages. Plaintiff indicates that  Plaintiff’s counsel received a notice of restitution hearing on August 29,  2024, involving criminal charges against Protic. Plaintiff indicates that these  facts were learned after the filing of the original complaint, and that  Plaintiff was not aware that the recommended criminal charges were brought  against Protic.  In opposition, Protic and Ferreira contend the motion should be  denied because Plaintiff bears the burden of proving by clear and convincing  evidence that Protic and Ferreira acted with malice, oppression, or fraud, and  must plead specific facts. Protic and Ferreira contend that California Police  Reports do not constitute sufficient or reliable evidence because the  investigating police officer did not witness the accident and relies on hearsay  in preparing the report.  Analysis  The Court finds Plaintiff has substantially complied  with the requirements of Rule 3.1324 of the California Rules of Court.  Plaintiff attached the proposed FAC and explained the  effect of the proposed amendment, why it is necessary and proper, when the  facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered, and why the amendment was  not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324; Sarkissian Decl., ¶¶ 4-9,  Exs. 1, 2.) Protic and Ferreira also provided no evidence of prejudice in  permitting amendment at this time, and the Court notes that this action is only  eight months old right now. (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564.)  The Court further finds Protic and Ferreira’s  opposition arguments regarding clear and convincing evidence unpersuasive, as  this is only the pleading stage of this action, not an evidentiary dispute. The  parties can resolve any pleading issues on a demurrer or motion to strike. (Kittredge  Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file First  Amended Complaint. Plaintiff must file and serve the proposed First Amended  Complaint within five days of the Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.