 Case Number:  23TRCV03201    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
BRYAN
  MUNGUIA, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03201




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
VOLKSWAGEN
  GROUP OF AMERICA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 18,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Briyan Munguia and Ricardo Munguia
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Volkswagen Group of America
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED as to Nos.
1-29 and 31.  
Defendant is ordered to respond
further and to produce responsive documents within twenty days as to Nos. 1-14
and 31 and within twenty days of the parties entering into a stipulation and
confidentiality protective order as to Nos. 15-29.  
As to No. 30, the motion is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The Court is ordering
the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations.
Phase two shall involve plaintiffs’
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiffs’
vehicle (No. 30), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has returned
a verdict favorable to plaintiffs in phase one.
BACKGROUND
            On September 27, 2023, Bryan Munguia
and Ricardo Munguia filed a complaint against Volkswagen Group of American,
Inc. and South Bay Motors, LLC dba Pacific Volkswagen for violations of Song
Beverly Act and negligent repair.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs request that the Court
order defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.’s to serve further responses
to plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-31. 
            In the complaint, plaintiffs allege
that on April 16, 2023, plaintiffs purchased a 2021 Volkswagen ID.  The subject vehicle was a certified pre-owned
(“CPO”) purchased as a CPO with an accompanying Volkswagen new and full CPO
warranty and therefore constitutes a “new motor vehicle” under the Song Beverly
Act.  Complaint, ¶9.  The subject vehicle was delivered to
plaintiffs with serious defects and nonconformities including electrical,
transmission, suspension, structural, and engine system defects.  Id., ¶11. 
The complaint further alleges that
plaintiffs presented the vehicle for repairs in June 2023 for defects relating
to the vehicle’s “electrical system malfunction” warning light illuminating
with a loss of acceleration.  Id., ¶12.  Plaintiffs presented the vehicle for repairs
in July 2023 for defects relating to vehicle’s mirrors not tilting when
reversing, Travel Assist feature would not engage properly, vehicle would not
charge when connected to the charger. 
Id., ¶13.  On August 1, plaintiffs
presented the vehicle for massage feature turning on automatically and vehicle
would stop charging when unlocked.  Id., ¶14.  On August 3, plaintiffs returned the vehicle
for repairs relating to vehicle’s doors not unlocking when approaching the
vehicle or when attempting to open the door without the key; driver side window
would automatically roll up when attempting to roll it down while driving; when
using the level 2 charger, the vehicle would stop charging when unlocking the
vehicle and would show a red light when locking the vehicle to resume
charging.  Id., ¶15.  On August 14, plaintiffs returned the vehicle
for repairs regarding vehicle not charging properly intermittently; driver side
window would automatically roll up or down opposite the switch; and easy trunk
opening would intermittently malfunction. 
Id., ¶16.  
The motion adds that on November
17, 2023, with approximately 56,316 miles, plaintiffs presented the vehicle for
repair regarding the driver’s side window automatically going up again after
being lowered.
            Plaintiffs explain that on November
17, 2023, plaintiffs propounded Request for Production of Documents, Set
One.  Defendant asserts that on December
19, 2023, defense counsel requested a 30-day extension but did not receive an
answer and thus served its responses asserting objections.  On December 28, 2023, plaintiffs’ counsel
sent defense counsel a meet and confer letter. 
On January 8, 2024, plaintiffs’ counsel sent another meet and confer
letter.
            Plaintiffs assert that there are
four categories of documents relevant to the asserted claims under Song-Beverly
Act:  (1) plaintiffs’ own vehicle (Nos.
1-14); (2) defendant’s policies and procedures for handling Song-Beverly Act
cases (Nos. 15-22); (3) defendant’s warranty policy and the procedure used for
handling warranty issues (Nos. 23-29); and (4) information regarding similar
customer complaints in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
subject vehicle (Nos. 30-31).  No. 30
requests all documents of other customer complaints in defendant’s ESI of
database(s) that are substantially similar to complaints made by plaintiffs
with respect to the subject vehicle in other 2021 Volkswagen ID.4
vehicles.  No. 31 requests all documents
that refer to, reflect, or relate to any Field Service Action issued, or in the
process of being issued, in response to complaints experienced by plaintiffs as
described in defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the line items of the
repair orders created at defendant’s authorized repair history.
            In opposition, defendant argues that
plaintiffs did not meaningfully meet and confer.  Defendant also asserts that it will produce
all documents in its possession, custody, or control which pertain to
plaintiff’s vehicle under Nos. 1, 3-14. 
Further, upon plaintiffs’ execution of a stipulation and protective
order, defendant contends, it will produce its confidential policy and
procedure materials regarding Song-Beverly claims in response to Nos.
15-29.  As to Nos. 30-31, defendant
argues that plaintiffs fail to establish good cause, its objections are proper,
and the requests are vague, overbroad, and unduly burdensome as there are 20,911
other 2021 Volkswagen ID.4 vehicles.  
            The Court rules as follows:  As to Nos. 1-29 defendant has agreed to
produce responsive documents, including as to Nos. 15-29 upon entry of a
stipulation and confidentiality protective order.  As to No. 31, plaintiffs have shown good
cause and defendant’s objections lack merit as the request is specific as to
the purported defects in the subject vehicle. 
Thus, the motion is GRANTED as to Nos. 1-29 and 31.  As to No. 30, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED as to Nos.
1-29 and 31.  
Defendant is ordered to respond
further and to produce responsive documents within twenty days as to Nos. 1-14
and 31 and within twenty days of the parties entering into a stipulation and
confidentiality protective order as to Nos. 15-29.  
As to No. 30, the motion is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The Court is ordering
the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations.
Phase two shall involve plaintiffs’
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiffs’
vehicle (No. 30), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has returned
a verdict favorable to plaintiffs in phase one.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of ruling.