 Case Number:  24STCV03402    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MEDINA CULVER
  D.O., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
COUNTER BRANDS, LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV03402
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  PRODUCTION IN RESPONSE TO SUBPOENA
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 22, 2024



 
On May 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a second amended complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Counter Brands LLC[1] and
Counter Brands Inc.
On
June 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel production of documents in response
to a subpoena served on non-party Susan Gregg Renfrew.
On
July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Counter Brands Inc.
On
July 16, 2024, the Court granted non-party Susan Gregg Renfrew’s ex parte application
for leave to file a supplemental opposition to the motion to compel, in light of
changed circumstances arising from the dismissal of Counter Brands Inc.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs
originally classified the requested documents into six categories: “(1) documents
related to Ms. Renfrew’s duty to preserve evidence (Request No. 1); (2) communications
referring or relating to the named plaintiffs or the lawsuits (Request Nos. 2-5,
15, 23); (3) communications relating to Beautycounter’s non-solicitation policy
(Request No. 6); (4) communications relating to any transfer of ownership interests
either to Carlyle or back to Ms. Renfrew (Request Nos. 7, 8, 10, 14, 21); (5) communications
relating to the dissolution of Counter Brands, LLC, the transfer of assets, and
the purported Assignment for Benefit of Creditors (Request Nos. 9, 13, 16, 19, 22);
and (6) communications relating to compensation plan changes and how Consultants
were selected for termination at the time of the dissolution of Counter Brands,
LLC (Request Nos. 11, 12, 17, 18).”  (Motion
at pp. 4-5.)
In
their Reply, Plaintiffs classified the documents into two categories: “(1) documents
concerning Counter Brands, LLC’s assets and what has happened to those assets over
the past few months, including Ms. Renfrew’s acquisition of such assets through
her newly-formed company, G2G, and (2) documents concerning Ms. Renfrew’s efforts
to comply with the TRO enjoining her from enforcing the illegal non-solicitation
agreements at issue in this case.”  (Reply
at pp. 5-6.)
A.        Plaintiffs May Not Conduct Discovery Into
Defendant’s Financial Condition.
Plaintiffs’
requests for documents reflecting Defendant’s assets and financial condition are
improper.  A plaintiff may conduct pretrial
discovery with respect to evidence of a defendant’s financial condition for punitive
damages only upon court order after showing that the plaintiff has established there
is a substantial probability of prevailing on the claim.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c).)  Plaintiffs have not sought such an order here.
B.        The Requested Documents Are Irrelevant
and Improperly Sought.
Plaintiffs
argue that Renfrew’s “more recent transactions rendering Counter Brands, LLC unable
to pay its own attorneys, never-mind a judgment in this case, are relevant to liability
for Plaintiffs’ damages.”  (Motion at p. 7.)  Plaintiffs admit that “[t]he discovery sought
is relevant to the default proceedings.” 
(Suppl. Reply at p. 7.)  Plaintiffs
discuss the standards for awarding punitive damages before asserting that they “intend
to present a robust default motion, supported by not just the SAC, but additional
evidence.”  (Id. at pp. 8-9.)
Plaintiffs’
Supplemental Reply discusses the purported relevance of specific requests.
Plaintiffs
argue that Requests Nos. 8-10, 13-14, and 19-20 “are relevant to the damages component
of Plaintiffs’ eventual default motion” because they reflect Defendant’s financial
condition, Defendant’s previous net worth and assets when Plaintiffs filed suit,
and Defendant’s decisions to transfer assets, which left it insolvent.  (Suppl. Reply at p. 9.)
Defendant’s
financial condition is not relevant to any of Plaintiffs’ claims or their damages.
Through their SAC, Plaintiffs seek a declaration that Defendants’ non-solicitation
policy is unlawful; an injunction against Defendants prohibiting them from using,
relying on, or threatening enforcement of their non-solicitation restriction, an
injunction reinstating Plaintiffs from their suspensions that were based on the
policy; a declaration that Plaintiffs are not bound by any arbitration provision
in any purported agreement with Defendants; damages for tortious interference with
prospective economic advantage, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, promissory estoppel, unjust enrichment, fraudulent misrepresentation,
breach of implied contract, and breach of contract; and restitution and damages
for unfair competition.  (SAC ¶¶ 379, 384-385,
388, 406, 421, 429, 437, 446, 456, 468, 473.) 
Plaintiffs must prove entitlement to their alleged damages for the harm they
suffered regardless of Defendant’s financial condition.  Whether Defendant can satisfy a monetary judgment
is an issue for post-judgment enforcement proceedings, not an issue for discovery
on pending claims.
For
Request Nos. 7 and 21, “Plaintiffs requested that the Court declare that Defendant’s
non-solicitation restriction is invalid and unlawful and permanently enjoin Defendant
and its successors from using, relying on, or enforcing its non-solicitation restriction.  To obtain this relief on default, Plaintiffs need
to prove-up their claims for declaratory and permanent injunctive relief.”  (Suppl. Reply at p. 10.)  If Plaintiffs obtain a default against Defendant,
then that default admits the alleged facts, and “a plaintiff has no responsibility
to provide the court with sufficient evidence to prove them—they are treated as
true for purposes of obtaining a default judgment.”  (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011)
201 Cal.App.4th 267, 281.)  Even without a
default, Request Nos. 7 and 21 are irrelevant to the requested declaratory and injunctive
relief.  These Requests are for documents
about any transfer or sale of any ownership interest of Defendant and documents
about Defendant’s compliance with the temporary restraining order in this case.
The
Court sustains all of Renfrew’s relevance objections.
Moreover,
some of the Requests appear to be made to circumvent a discovery order in a separate
federal action that is pending in Minnesota. 
(See Motion, Lilly Decl. ¶ 2.)  The
Minnesota court has denied those plaintiffs’ motion to commence early discovery.  (Suppl. Opposition, Doolittle Decl. ¶¶ 4-5 &
Ex. 3.)  Yet here, Request Nos. 1, 3-5, 15,
23 ask for production of documents related to the “LAWSUITS.”  Plaintiffs define “LAWSUITS” as “either or both
the case titled Culver et al. v. Counter Brands, LLC d/b/a Beautycounter,
No. 24STCV03402 pending in Los Angeles County, California and the case titled Counter
Brands, LLC d/b/a Beautycounter and The Carlyle Group Inc., a Delaware corporation,
No. 24-cv-00556 pending in the United States District Court for the District of
Minnesota.”  (Motion, Lilly Decl., Ex. A at
p. 3, ¶ J.)  The Court sustains Renfrew’s
objections that the subpoena was issued for the improper purpose of avoiding a discovery
stay in the Minnesota action.
CONCLUSION
The
motion is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 22nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


