 Case Number:  24STCV15138    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ALBEN B. XHIDIJA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BANK OF MONTREAL, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV15138
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 22, 2024



 
On
June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Alben B. Xhidija filed this action against Defendants Bank
of Montreal and Bank of the West.  The Complaint
alleges (1) negligence; (2) breach of contract; (3) promissory estoppel; (4) breach
of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing; (5) negligent interference with
prospective economic advantage; (6) negligent interference with contractual relations;
(7) fraudulent misrepresentation and deceit; (8) negligent misrepresentation; (9)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200; (10) violation of the
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Act; (11) intentional infliction of emotional distress
(“IIED”); and (12) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”).  (The body of the Complaint switches the order
of the ninth and tenth causes of action. 
The Court will address the causes of action as stated on the caption page.)
On
August 29, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer.
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants
ask the Court to take judicial notice of the Signature Card dated August 21, 2023
for AX Capital Group LLC (Exhibit 1) and Deposit Account Disclosure Agreement effective
February 2, 2023 (Exhibit 2).  Because the
Complaint refers to the terms and conditions in respective account agreements (e.g.,
Complaint ¶ 39), they are appropriate matters for judicial notice.  (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956 fn. 6.)  Additionally,
Plaintiff admits that these are the contract terms.  (See Opposition at p. 5.)  The request is granted.
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Negligence (First
Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that a depository institution does not owe a customer a legal duty of care
that is completely untethered to the contractual relationship, and the UCC precludes
negligence claims.  (Demurrer at pp. 15-17.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants owed him “a
duty of ordinary commercial banking care in the management and handling of his banking
transactions, specifically the processing and depositing of checks, as well as providing
accurate account information and warnings regarding overdrafts and potential fraudulent
activities.”  (Complaint ¶ 33.)  A customer may have a right to recover damages
to the extent that the bank’s negligence caused the customer to suffer losses.  (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. FSI, Financial Solutions,
Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1571.) 
Even under the UCC, a bank may be liable for harm caused by its own negligence
in handling checks and chargebacks.  (Chino
Commercial Bank, N.A. v. Peters (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1163, 1170-1172.)
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff’s claim for negligence is barred by the economic loss
rule.  (Demurrer at pp. 15-16.)  “In general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied
by physical or property damage.”  (Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922 (Sheen).)  “[T]he rule functions to bar claims in negligence
for pure economic losses in deference to a contract between litigating parties.”  (Ibid.)  Claims for monetary losses “are barred when they
arise from—or are not independent of—the parties’ underlying contracts.”  (Id. at p. 923.)
Plaintiff
holds two deposit accounts with Defendants. 
(Complaint ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants flagged two deposited checks for being altered or fictitious and
issued a chargeback, which resulted in Plaintiff’s account being overdrawn and disrupted.  (Complaint ¶¶ 13-17, 25-26.)  As a result of Defendants executing a setoff,
Plaintiff suffered financial damage and “significant stress, anxiety, and damage
to Plaintiff’s reputation.”  (Complaint ¶¶
26-27; see Complaint ¶ 36.)  Although Plaintiff
alleges some non-economic harm, it arises from (and is not independent of) the parties’
banking contract.
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained.
B.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Breach of Contract
(Second and Fourth Causes of Action).
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached their contractual obligations by improperly handling
Plaintiff’s checks, unilaterally reversing transactions, and closing his accounts.  (Complaint ¶ 41.)  Defendants argue that the alleged breaches are
agreed-upon terms in the parties’ agreements. 
(Demurrer at pp. 17-18.)
Under
the terms of the contract, (1) Defendants had the right to “accept or reject deposits”
in their sole discretion; (2) checks are “subject to reversal and chargeback to
your Account whenever the Bank is unable to collect the funds from the drawee/issuer
institution”; (3) if any check “you deposit is returned unpaid . . . the Bank is
authorized to reverse the deposit to your Account (or debit your Account for checks
cashed or paid), to reverse any related interest, and to pursue a collection action
against you if necessary”; (4) Defendants have the right to “close your Account
at any time, with or without cause, with or without prior notice to you and tender
of the Account balance (including any accrued and payable interest if applicable,
subject to any agreement concerning maturity or the Bank’s Right of Set-off)”; (5)
Defendants can close or freeze any account if the Bank suspects fraudulent activity
with or without notice, and BMO will “not be liable for any losses incurred or any
Items that are dishonored as a consequence of placing a hold on funds in your Account
for these reasons”; and (6) Plaintiff would reimburse BMO if there was an overdraft
on this account.  (RJN, Ex. 2; Opposition
at pp. 17-18.)
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not alleged a breach of the terms.  Instead, he has alleged that Defendants performed
according to the terms.
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained.
Plaintiff
also alleges breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  “[T]ort recovery for breach of the covenant [of
good faith and fair dealing] is available only in limited circumstances, generally
involving a special relationship between the contracting parties, such as the relationship
between an insured and its insurer.”  (Bionghi
v. Metropolitan Water Dist. of So. California (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1370.)  “Because the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
essentially is a contract term that aims to effectuate the contractual intentions
of the parties, ‘compensation for its breach has almost always been limited to contract
rather than tort remedies.’ ”  (Cates Construction,
Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21 Cal.4th 28, 43.)  “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement
of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the
same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action,
they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.”  (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)  That is the case here.  (See Complaint ¶ 56.)
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is also sustained.
C.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Promissory Estoppel
(Third Cause of Action).
Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not allege a clear and unambiguous
promise supporting a claim for promissory estoppel.  (Demurrer at pp. 19-20.)
“The elements of promissory estoppel are (1) a promise, (2) the promisor
should reasonably expect the promise to induce action or forbearance on the part
of the promisee or a third person, (3) the promise induces action or forbearance
by the promisee or a third person, and (4) injustice can be avoided only by enforcement
of the promise.”  (Newport Harbor Ventures,
LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1207, 1225.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant promised “that they would handle his financial transactions
with due care, particularly the processing of checks and management of his accounts,
which are typical promises in a banking relationship.”  (Complaint ¶ 46.)  This does not allege any specific terms of a promise.  Additionally, Plaintiff has not alleged reasonable
reliance in light of the parties’ contracts containing the terms of the management
of accounts.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.
D.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Interference
With Economic Advantage or Contractual Relations (Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action).
“The
elements of a claim of interference with economic advantage and prospective economic
advantage are: (1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third
party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional [or negligent] acts on
the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption
of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by
the acts of the defendant.”  (Crown Imports,
LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404, quotation marks and
citations omitted.)  “[C]ourts require an
additional element, that the alleged interference must have been wrongful by some
measure beyond the fact of the interference itself.”  (Ibid.)  “For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful,
it must be ‘unlawful, that is, . . . it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.’”  (Ibid.)  “The independently wrongful act must be the act
of interference itself, but such act must itself be independently wrongful.”  (Ibid.)
Defendants
argue that they only exercised their contractual right to issue chargebacks, institute
an investigative freeze, and close the account. 
(Demurrer at pp. 20-21.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants interfered with his economic relationships with his tenants,
including the one whose check was rejected. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 61, 69.)  Defendants’
wrongful conduct included “erroneously reversing transactions and freezing accounts
without substantial justification, actions that deviated significantly from the
standards of care in the banking industry and directly impacted Plaintiff's ability
to maintain smooth financial operations.” 
(Complaint ¶ 72.)  Defendants also
“proceed[ed] with account closures and transaction reversals without properly investigating
the legitimacy of the transactions or the potential impact on Plaintiff’s business
relationships.”  (Complaint ¶ 73.)  This does not allege any independently wrongful
conduct.  Instead, it alleges that Defendants
acted in accordance with the contract terms.
The
demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is sustained.
E.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Fraud (Seventh
and Eighth Causes of Action).
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)
Fraud
must be pleaded with specificity.  (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  “‘This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’  [Citation.]  A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud claim
against a corporate employer is even greater. 
In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made
the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’  [Citation.]” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Plaintiff
does not allege any fraud with specificity. 
(See Demurrer at pp. 21-23.)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants “committed misrepresentation by incorrectly asserting that
the checks provided by Plaintiff’s tenant were altered or fictitious.”  (Complaint ¶ 81; see Complaint ¶ 89.)  Plaintiff alleges that he spoke with Ms. Natalie
Russels on March 6, 2024, but she only “reiterated the possibility of the checks
being fraudulent.”  (Complaint ¶ 19.)  This is after “a banker” “accused [Plaintiff]
of potentially having forged documents” between March 1 and 12, 2024.  (Complaint ¶ 18.)  Additionally, through “conversations with bank
representatives,” it was “insinuated that Plaintiff should not trust his tenants
and suggested that the rental checks might have been fictitious.”  (Complaint ¶ 20.)  None of this is alleged with the required specificity.  
Plaintiff
also does not allege reasonable reliance on the misrepresentations.  (See Demurrer at p. 22.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants intended to
“induc[e] reliance by Plaintiff on their banking services, under the pretext of
providing secure and reliable financial management” and “intended that Plaintiff
rely on this misinformation to take action or refrain from action regarding his
banking transactions and handling of his financial affairs.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 83, 92.)  Plaintiff did rely on “Defendants’ representations
of their banking services and the handling of his transactions.”  (Complaint ¶ 84.)  Plaintiff’s reliance on Defendants’ representations
about their banking services is not reliance on a misrepresentation that the checks
were altered or fictitious.  (See Complaint
¶¶ 81, 89.)
The
demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action is sustained.
F.         Plaintiff Does Not Allege Violation of
the Rosenthal Act (Tenth Cause of Action).
Plaintiff
asserts that “accusations were made suggesting that Plaintiff might have engaged
in fraudulent activities related to his banking transactions.”  (Complaint ¶ 98.)  Plaintiff alleges that “[t]hese accusations amounted
to a threat that non-payment of an alleged debt, specifically related to the overdraft
that had arisen due to Defendants’ mishandling of the checks, would result in criminal
allegations against Plaintiff.  Such threats
were not only unfounded but also unlawful under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection
Act, as they implied criminal conduct on the part of Plaintiff without any factual
basis, solely to pressure him into resolving the financial discrepancies caused
by Defendants’ own errors.”  (Complaint ¶
100.)
The
overdraft of Plaintiff’s account is not consumer debt because it is not owed by
a natural person because of a consumer credit transaction.  (Civ. Code, § 1788.2; see Demurrer at p. 23.)  Plaintiff alleges that the bank accounts “are
crucial for the day-to-day operations of his business, handling transactions ranging
from maintenance payments to tenant rents.” 
(Complaint ¶ 12.)  The allegations
that Defendants attempted to collect the overdraft through force or falsely accusing
him of a crime are also insufficient.  (Civ.
Code, § 1788.10; see Demurrer at p. 23.)
The
demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained.
G.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege IIED or NIED
(Eleventh and Twelfth Causes of Action).
“‘[T]o
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention
of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress;
(3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’  [Citation.]  ‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’ must be so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’  [Citation.]” 
(Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA,
Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.) 
When a plaintiff does not suffer physical injury, the conduct must involve
“extreme and outrageous intentional invasions of one’s mental and emotional tranquility.”  (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970)
2 Cal.3d 493, 498.)
“[T]here
is no independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.  [Citation.] 
The tort is negligence, a cause of action in which a duty to the plaintiff
is an essential element.  [Citations.]  That duty may be imposed by law, be assumed by
the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.  [Citation.]” 
(Potter v. Firestone Tire &Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984-985.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants “repeatedly accus[ed] Plaintiff of fraudulent activities
without any factual basis.”  (Complaint ¶
113.)  These accusations, made in the context
of processing Plaintiff’s tenant’s checks, are not extreme and outrageous.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 18-20, 113.)
Plaintiff
also alleges that Defendants “failed to exercise ordinary commercial banking care
in the handling and depositing of Plaintiff's checks” and wrongfully froze his funds.  (Complaint ¶¶ 114, 121.)  Defendants’ actions are not so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of what a civilized society usually tolerates.  (See Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 922.)
The
demurrer to the eleventh and twelfth causes of action is sustained.
H.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Unfair Competition (Ninth
Cause of Action).
California’s
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) includes any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading advertising.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)  The UCL embraces “anything that can properly be
called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles
Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  “By proscribing any unlawful business practice,
section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices
that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Ibid.; see Klein v. Earth Elements,
Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969 [“Virtually any law can serve as the predicate
for a section 17200 action.”].)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants engaged in unlawful business practices through “the wrongful
freezing and subsequent closure of Plaintiff’s accounts, as well as the incorrect
and damaging assertions regarding the legitimacy of Plaintiff’s transactions.”  (Complaint ¶ 106.)  This does not allege an unlawful basis for a UCL
claim.
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 22nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 