 Case Number:  22STCV38373    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
NICHOLAS SABBAGH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CULVER 12 LLC, 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38373
  Hearing Date:  November 17, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
culver 12 llc’s motion to compel the
  deposition of alexander rassouli 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff
Nicholas Sabbagh filed this action against Defendant Culver 12 LLC, alleging
causes of action for (1) unlawful retention of security deposit, (2) breach of
lease, (3) negligence, and (4) conversion. Plaintiff alleges that he rented a
unit from Defendant and paid a $15,000 security deposit which was supposed to
be returned upon termination of the tenancy. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant improperly
applied expenses against the deposit, resulting in nothing being returned to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that this amounts to theft of the security
deposit.   
            On January 5, 2023, Defendant Culver
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Sachin Tejas Bettadapur, Alexander
Amir Rassouli, and Ashan Naik, alleging breach of lease. Plaintiff and the
other Cross-Defendants resided in the same unit. Culver alleges that the
tenants caused extensive damages to the unit which required more than $18,000
to repair. Culver therefore applied the full security deposit of $15,000 towards
the repair. The tenants also allegedly kept a dog in violation of the no-pet
provision in the lease. Culver sues for the damage caused to the premises by
the tenants and their dog.  
            On March 15, 2023, Bettadapur,
Rassouli, and Naik, the tenants who shared the unit with Plaintiff, filed their
own cross-complaint against Culver, which is substantively identical to
Plaintiff’s complaint. 
            On October 23, 2023, Culver filed
the instant motion to compel the deposition of Rassouli. Rassouli filed his
opposition on November 6, 2023. Culver filed its reply on November 9, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
DISCUSSION
            On September 20, 2023, Culver served
Rassouli with a notice of deposition, scheduling the deposition for October 24,
2023. (Shabel Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Culver notified Rassouli that alternative
dates could be scheduled between October 19 and November 2. (Ibid.) On
October 9, 2023, Rassouli served his response to the notice of deposition,
objecting on the grounds that Culver unilaterally set the deposition and that “[t]wo
of the witnesses are out of the county.” (Id., Ex. B.) 
            While the notice of deposition initially
imposed a date of October 24, 2023, Culver made clear that alternatives were
available between October 19 and November 2. Regardless, Culver also provided
fifteen specific alternative dates in November. (Shabel Decl., Ex. D.) Rassouli
has provided no further information on his availability for a deposition. (Id.,
¶ 6.) There is no indication of which two witnesses are out of the country or
when they will be back. 
            Rassouli argues that Culver failed
to meet and confer and prematurely filed this motion instead of following up
with Rassouli on his availability. However, Culver’s counsel sent a meet and
confer letter on October 9, 2023, which provided fifteen alternative dates in
November and gave Rassouli until October 23 to agree on one. (Shabel Decl., Ex.
D.) On October 9, 2023, Rassouli’s counsel stated in an email that he would
discuss dates with his clients “this week.” (Shabel Decl., Ex. C.) On October
19, 2023, Rassouli’s counsel stated that he would provide dates “today.” (Id.,
Ex. E.) However, no dates were ever provided for Rassouli prior to this motion.
It is not Culver’s responsibility to follow up when Rassouli is the one who
promised to provide dates “this week” or “today.” Culver is not required to wait
indefinitely until Rassouli decides he is ready to agree on a date.  
            Rassouli’s opposition largely
focuses on purported gamesmanship by Culver on other discovery requests. This
has no bearing on the instant motion regarding Rassouli’s deposition. Culver’s alleged
gamesmanship does not absolve Rassouli of his own discovery obligations. 
             The record indicates that Culver has provided
valid notice of deposition and that Rassouli has refused to comply with his
discovery obligations. Rassouli has not provided any substantial justification.
Therefore, sanctions are warranted in the amount of $1,410, representing 3
hours at $450 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee.  
CONCLUSION
            Culver’s motion to compel deposition
is GRANTED. Deposition shall take place on __________________.  The Court sanctions Rassouli and his counsel
in the total amount of $1,410, to be paid within 30 days. 
 