 Case Number:  23STCV18929    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
TRIZAH MORRIS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TIFFANY HADDISH, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV18929
  Hearing Date:  November 17, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant tiffany haddish’s motion to compel
  arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff Trizah
Morris filed this action against Defendants Tiffany Haddish and Aries Spears,
asserting causes of action for (1) defamation, (2) injunctive relief, (3)
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and (4) unjust
enrichment. 
            The dispute between the parties stems
from an earlier lawsuit, Doe, et al. v. Haddish, et al. (22STCV28473),
in which Plaintiff’s two children alleged that Defendants sexually abused them
during filming of purported skits. Defendants allegedly responded to the lawsuit
by publishing false and defamatory statements accusing Plaintiff of extortion.
These alleged defamatory statements led to the instant action. 
            The earlier lawsuit resolved via a
settlement agreement, which contains an arbitration clause. Accordingly, on September
27, 2023, Defendant Haddish filed a motion to compel arbitration. However, the
motion was improperly redacted. Defendant Haddish filed an amended motion on
October 26, 2023. Plaintiff filed her opposition on November 6, 2023. Defendant
filed her reply on November 13, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
 “On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense,
such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of an Agreement to Arbitrate
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165, quoting Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-44.) Plaintiff does
not dispute signing an agreement containing an arbitration clause. (See Haddish
Decl., Ex. C.) Instead, Plaintiff’s opposition is limited to unconscionability.

The Court finds that Defendant Haddish has
satisfied her initial burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, thus shifting the burden to Plaintiff to articulate a defense
against enforcement. 
II.
Delegation Clause
            “[T]he issue of arbitrability
presumptively remains with the court except where the parties clearly and
unmistakably provide otherwise.” (Nelson v. Dual Diagnosis Treatment Center,
Inc. (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 643, 655.) “[W]here the Contract provides for
arbitration in conformance with rules that specify the arbitrator will decide
the scope of his or her own jurisdiction, the parties’ intent is clear and
unmistakable, even without a recital in the contract that the arbitrator will
decide any dispute over arbitrability.” (Dream Theater, Inc. v. Dream
Theater (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 547, 557.) 
            Here, the arbitration agreement
incorporates AAA rules, which gives the arbitrator authority over “any
objections with respect to the existence, scope, or validity of the arbitration
agreement or to the arbitrability of any claim or counterclaim, without any
need to refer such matters to the court.” (Rule R-7 of AAA Commercial Rules.)
This is a “clear and unmistakable” delegation to the arbitrator. 
            “Since the parties clearly and
unmistakably intended that the issue of arbitrability be determined by the
arbitrator, we turn to the issue of whether the delegation clause is
unconscionable.” (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880,
894.) “When determining whether a delegation clause is unconscionable, any
claim of unconscionability must be specific to the delegation clause.” (Id.
at p. 895.) Plaintiff’s arguments on unconscionability appear to focus on the
settlement agreement as a whole rather than the delegation clause specifically.
Nonetheless, the Court does not find the delegation clause to be unconscionable
for the reasons articulated below.  
III.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations and
quotations omitted.) 
            Plaintiff argues that she was
coerced into signing the agreement under the threat that her children’s names
would be publicly exposed. Plaintiff avers in her declaration: 
 
“From September 3,
2020 to September 28, 2022, Aries Spears, Tiffany Haddish attorney, Tiffany
Haddish, many of her 7.5 million followers, ans her celebrity blogger friends
menaced, harassed, bullied, intimidated, and pressured Trizah Morris with
threats to reveal the identities of Jane and John Doe to the world which would
cause more mental and emotional trauma on the sexual assault victims of Haddish
and Spears. As a result, Jane Doe feared that her and her brother's identities
would be revealed and Trizah Morris feared for the mental and emotional health
of her children resulting in the unconscionable settlement agreement being
signed under duress from the continuous coercion and threats Jane Doe and
Trizah Morris received by and on behalf of Haddish and Spears.” 
(Morris
Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff also attaches internet articles discussing one individual,
not the Defendants, supposedly making threats to expose the names of the Does
involved in the prior lawsuit. (Opp., Ex. A.)  
The Court does not find this to be
convincing evidence of duress which left Plaintiff with a lack of meaningful
choice. Plaintiff has no evidence of any particular acts or statements which could
be interpreted as threats to expose the names of Plaintiff’s children if
Plaintiff did not sign the agreement. The unauthenticated internet articles are
not evidence, and in any case, those articles contain no discussion of
Plaintiff being forced into any contract. Therefore, the Court finds no
procedural unconscionability.  
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable for the following reasons: (i) the agreement “ensures
that Defendant will have the ultimate choice in where, when, and how to select
the arbitrator. The agreement provides for a selection process that is designed
ensure that Defendant ultimately gets to select the time and place of their
choosing” (Opp. 7:6-8); (ii) the agreement “reinforces Defendant’s position of
power by substantively disadvantaging Plaintiff and frustrating Plaintiff's substantive
rights” (Opp. 7:9-10); and (iii) “the agreement does not ‘virtually guarantee’
to make Plaintiff and the class whole” (Opp. 7:10-11).     
These arguments are without merit. There
is no indication that the agreement fails to provide for a neutral arbitrator
as required. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) “A contract term is not substantively
unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the
term must be ‘so one-sided as to shock the conscience.’” (Pinnacle, supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 246.) Next, Plaintiff does not explain how the agreement
substantively disadvantages Plaintiff or frustrates Plaintiff’s substantive
rights. Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition that the arbitration
agreement must “virtually guarantee” to make Plaintiff whole. The arbitration provision
only concerns the forum in which the parties have agreed to resolve their
dispute. It does not affect any substantive right held by Plaintiff.
Arbitration is never guaranteed to make a plaintiff whole, nor is it required
to. Plaintiff is not guaranteed to be made whole even if she proceeds in court.
Therefore, the Court finds no substantive unconscionability. 
Without either procedural or substantive
unconscionability, the delegation clause remains enforceable. Because the
delegation clause is enforceable, the arbitrator has the authority to determine
which claims are arbitrable, as well as the validity of the settlement
agreement. (See Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551,
1571 [“The delegation clause is not unconscionable, and the trial court
therefore did not err in granting the motion to compel arbitration to permit
the arbitrator to resolve Malone's challenges to the validity and
enforceability of the arbitration agreement as a whole”].) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Tiffany Haddish’s motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending
the outcome of arbitration. 