 Case Number:  22STCV09767    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
JENNIFER LINARES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TOLUCA LAKE COLLECTIVE,
  INC., 
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV09767
  Hearing Date:  November 17, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses to requests for production




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Jennifer Linares filed
this action against Toluca Lake Collective, Inc. on March 21, 2022. Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint on November 3, 2022, asserting wage
violations and Labor Code penalties, as well as a PAGA claim on behalf of other
aggrieved employees.  
            On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel further responses to her Requests for Production
Set One. Defendant filed its opposition on September 25, 2023. Plaintiff filed
her reply on November 9, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
On receipt of a response to RFPs, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)  
MEET AND CONFER
Motions to compel further responses must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to resolve
the issue informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b)(1).)
The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (See
Gutierrez Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant initially responded to the
RFPs on September 20, 2022. (Gutierrez Decl., Ex. B.) The responses asserted
various objections, including attorney-client privilege, and then stated that “Defendant
will produce all non-privileged documents responsive to this request that are
in Defendant’s care, custody, or control.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff sent meet and
confer correspondence on December 29, 2022 to discuss various discovery,
including the RFPs at issue. (Id., Ex. C.) On July 24, 2023, Defendant
confirmed that it was “working on” supplemental responses to the RFPs to provide
“further factual information to evaluate the merits of the privilege claim.” (Id.,
Ex. E.) Defendant served supplemental responses on August 25, 2023. (Id.,
Ex. H.) However, these responses merely repeated the privilege objection and repeated
that “Responding Party will produce all responsive, non-privileged, documents
in its possession, custody and control.” (Ibid.) The only difference is
that the supplemental responses add a phrase about conducting a “diligent
search and reasonable inquiry” and reference certain documents by bates number.
(Ibid.) 
            The supplemental responses fail to
address the privilege objection and remain vague as to whether Defendant is
withholding any documents based on the privilege. The supplemental responses
also fail to provide sufficient factual information to assess the privilege
claim, as required by the Code and as Defendant promised to do. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.240(c)(1); Gutierrez Decl., Ex. E.) 
            In its opposition, Defendant
provides no support for its objections, including attorney-client privilege,
nor does Defendant deny that its responses are defective in the manner
discussed above. Instead, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to meet and
confer. However, Plaintiff sent meet and confer correspondence as far back as
December 2022. (Gutierrez Decl., Ex. C.) In July 2023, Defendant promised to
provide supplemental responses with sufficient facts to assess the privilege
claim, but its August 2023 production failed to do this. (Id., Ex. E,
H.) 
Defendant points out that Plaintiff sent a
meet and confer letter on August 31, 2023, giving only one day to provide
further supplemental responses before Plaintiff would file a motion to compel.
(Hodge Decl., Ex. 5.) However, the August 2023 letter reminds Defendant that
the parties had previously met and conferred and that Defendant had agreed to
provide responses with sufficient information to evaluate the privilege claim.
(Ibid.) The August 2023 letter served as a “final request” for adequate
responses before Plaintiff resorted to motion practice. (Ibid.) Additionally,
while Plaintiff demanded further responses by one day, she waited another month
to actually file this motion. In the meantime, Plaintiff sent another
correspondence on September 19, 2023, reiterating the same points made in the
August 2023 letter. (Gutierrez Decl., Ex. J.) Defendant does not deny ignoring
both communications. Therefore, Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. 
Defendant argues that it served further supplemental
responses on September 25, 2023, after this motion was filed. (Hodge Decl. ¶
14.) This does not moot the motion, as Defendant’s failure to provide adequate
responses in the first place still necessitated the motion. Defendant has
provided no substantial justification for its failure to provide proper responses
even after promising to do so. Therefore, sanctions are warranted in the amount
of $900. 
//
//
//
//
//
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide further responses to RFP Set One
within 15 days. The Court sanctions Defendant and its counsel in the total
amount of $900, to be paid within 30 days.   