  Case Number:  21STCV23557    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
DAPHNA ALUSH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DEANCO HEALTHCARE, LLC,
  
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  21STCV23557
  Hearing Date: November 17, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 24, 2021, Plaintiff Daphna
Alush filed this employment discrimination action against Defendant Deanco
Healthcare, LLC dba Mission Community Hospital. The complaint alleges FEHA violations,
wrongful termination in violation of public policy, breach of contract, and
failure to pay wages. Plaintiff was allegedly mistreated based on her
disability and denied bonuses owed to her.
            On December 16, 2022, Defendant
filed the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the alternative.
Plaintiff filed her opposition on November 3, 2023. Defendant filed its reply
on November 9, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations
is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues
delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App.
3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden
of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish
a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s objections are overruled.
DISCUSSION
I.
Discrimination
Government Code section 12940, subdivision
(a) prohibits an employer from discriminating against an employee based on a
protected characteristic. In order to establish a claim of discrimination,
Plaintiffs must prove: (1) they are in a protected class; (2) an adverse
employment action was taken against them; (3) at the time of the adverse action
they were satisfactorily performing their jobs; and (4) some other circumstance
suggesting discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel (2000) 24 Cal. 4th
317, 355.)
Under the McDonnell-Douglas
framework, (1) the plaintiff must initially establish a prima facie case of discrimination,
(2) the defendant must then articulate a legitimate nonretaliatory explanation
for its acts, and (3) in response, the plaintiff must show that this
explanation is pretextual. (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.) However, this is the burden of proof for trial,
and it does not change the defendant’s initial burden on summary judgment. (Cornell
v. Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926.) Therefore, on
summary judgment, the defendant employer must either (1) undermine an element
of the plaintiff’s prima facie case or (2) provide a legitimate nonretaliatory
reason for the adverse employment action. (Ibid.) 
a. Notice of Disability
Defendant does not dispute that Plaintiff
suffers from asthma or that asthma constitutes a physical disability under FEHA.
Rather, Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not inform Defendant of her asthma
or any other condition limiting a major life activity. According to Defendant,
it does not have any record of Plaintiff informing Defendant of asthma or other
condition. (Hart Decl. ¶ 12.) Additionally, Plaintiff never provided a doctor’s
note. (Ibid.) Plaintiff did exchange email correspondence with Defendant’s
HR stating that “I have a weakened immune system and need to be extra vigilant”
(id., ¶ 8, Ex. B), which Defendant contends was too vague to place it on
notice.  
The fact that Defendant does not have a
record of Plaintiff reporting her disability does not mean Plaintiff never reported
her disability. Although Plaintiff did not submit a doctor’s note, that is not
the only way to place an employer on notice of a disability. And even assuming
the email was “vague,” that is also not the only way Plaintiff could have
reported her disability. None of this evidence forecloses the possibility that
Plaintiff reported her disability to Defendant. 
Plaintiff avers that she told Dr. Glenn
Marshak (President), Mr. Hart, Smadar Gal (Director of Case Management), Julie
Halamicek
(Risk Management), Mina Spadaro (nurse and consultant), and Helen Cambron (VP
of Clinical Integration) specifically that she had asthma and reactive airway
disease. (Alush Decl. ¶ 6.) The fact that the declaration is self-serving does
not make it inadmissible. (Estate of Luke (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 1006,
1017.) The declaration does not contradict any prior testimony or discovery responses.
(See Whitmire
v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1087.) The declaration contains
evidentiary facts, not conclusions. Furthermore, a reasonable jury may find
that Plaintiff’s email detailing her weakened immune system placed Defendant on
notice of a disability. Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether
Defendant knew about Plaintiff’s disability. 
b. Causation
            Defendant argues that it could not
have fired Plaintiff “because of” her disability if Defendant never knew about
Plaintiff’s disability. As discussed above, there is a triable over whether
Defendant knew of Plaintiff’s disability. Additionally, Defendant expressed
frustration and complained about the fact that Plaintiff needed to work from
home during COVID. (Alush Decl. ¶ 7.) This included Smadar Gal yelling at
Plaintiff that “you don’t know shit because you work at home.” (Id., ¶
10.) This suggests disdain for Plaintiff working at home, which Plaintiff
needed due to her asthma and respiratory problems. A reasonable jury may infer
from this that Defendant harbored animus towards Plaintiff’s disability.
Therefore, there is a triable issue over causation. 
            c. Legitimate Reason
            “Generally in cases involving
affirmative adverse employment actions, pretext may be demonstrated by showing
the proffered reason had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not
actually motivate the discharge, or, the proffered reason was insufficient to
motivate discharge.” (Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016)
5 Cal.App.5th 570, 594, internal citations omitted.) “[T]he same evidence can
be used both to set forth a prima facie case of discrimination, and to demonstrate
the existence of a triable issue of fact on the issue of pretext.” (DeJung v.
Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 554.) “If triable issues of
material fact exist whether discrimination was a substantial motivating reason
for the employer's adverse employment action, even if the employer's professed
legitimate reason has not been disputed, the FEHA claim is not properly
resolved on summary judgment.” (Husman v. Toyota Motor Credit Corp.
(2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1168, 1186.)
            Defendant claims that it terminated
Plaintiff because Plaintiff’s position was being removed for business reasons.
Plaintiff was hired in 2019 as Manager of Patient Experience and then promoted
to Director of Patient Experience in 2020. (Def.’s Undisputed Facts (UF) 2-4.) Defendant
contends that in January 2021, it “determined that a non-director level role
under the supervision of another division would be sufficient to meet patient
needs” and “[a]s such, there was no longer a need to maintain Plaintiff’s
director level role.” (UF 28-29.) 
            Specifically, Mr. Hart testified in
his deposition that Plaintiff’s position was eliminated because “the duties
were distributed amongst other departments.” (Lagstein Decl., Ex. 1 (Hart
Depo.) at pp. 74-75.) Plaintiff avers that while she worked from home, she had
other staff “round on patients” for her and then report to her. (Alush Decl. ¶
7.) Defendant argues that this confirms Plaintiff was not performing her duties,
which were distributed to others, thus rendering Plaintiff’s position unnecessary.
However, Plaintiff did not receive complaints about her performance while
working from home, and Defendant did not express concerns about this system
despite discussing it with Plaintiff. (Ibid.) A reasonable jury may find
this to be indicative of pretext, especially when combined with the evidence of
discriminatory motive, discussed above. 
Additionally, the evidence of discriminatory
motive sufficiently raises an inference of pretext even if the proffered reason
is undisputed. (Husman, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at p. 1186; see also Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1007 [“a
complainant need not prove that discriminatory animus was the sole motivation
behind the challenged action”].) Therefore, there is a triable issue over the
discrimination claim. 
II.
Retaliation
To establish a
prima facie case of FEHA retaliation, Plaintiff must show: (1) he engaged in a
“protected activity”; (2) the employer subjected him to an adverse employment
action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer’s action. (Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244.) 
a.
Protected Activity
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff did not engage in protected activity because Defendant has “no
record” of Plaintiff’s complaints about discrimination or retaliation. (UF 37.)
However, Plaintiff avers that she complained to her supervisors about being treated
unfairly due to her asthma, and reported perceived discrimination against a
Jewish coworker, among other things. (Alush Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10.) That Defendant has
no record of such complaints does not necessarily mean they did not occur. A
reasonable jury may find that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity. 
b.
Causation
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate causation. However, Plaintiff avers that
after she made the foregoing complaints, she was removed from various
committees, had work taken away, was not invited to safety meetings, and Dr.
Marshak became colder and less responsive to her. (Alush Decl. ¶ 11.)
Additionally, when Plaintiff made the disclosures, she was warned not to “expose”
Dr. Marshak, not to put things in writing because they are discoverable, and
told to “stop digging around.” (Id., ¶ 12.) Interpreting the evidence in
favor of Plaintiff, it demonstrates retaliatory motive and raises a triable
issue. 
c.
Legitimate Reason
As discussed
above, there is a triable issue over Defendant’s proffered justification. Therefore,
there are material disputes of fact precluding summary adjudication of the
retaliation claim. 
III. Failure to
Prevent
            FEHA
requires an employer to “take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov. Code, § 12940(k).)
Defendant argues that this claim fails because the underlying discrimination
and retaliation claims fail. However, those claims survive for the reasons
discussed above. Therefore, the failure to prevent claim survives as well.   
IV. Failure to
Accommodate
            FEHA
requires an employer to “make reasonable accommodation for the known physical
or mental disability of an applicant or employee.” (Gov. Code, § 12940(m).) “The
elements of a reasonable accommodation cause of action are (1) the employee
suffered a disability, (2) the employee could perform the essential functions
of the job with reasonable accommodation, and (3) the employer failed to
reasonably accommodate the employee's disability.” (Nealy v. City of Santa
Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 373.)
            a. Known Disability
            Defendant
reiterates its argument that it did not know of Plaintiff’s disability. As
discussed above, there is a triable issue over whether Plaintiff notified
Defendant of her disability. 
            b. Ability to Perform the Job with
Reasonable Accommodation
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff could not perform her job while working from home because
her job required physically visiting patients. (UF 6.) Plaintiff’s job
description stated that she would work in “usual and customary patient care
areas.” (UF 7.) 
            On
the other hand, Plaintiff never received complaints about her performance while
working from home. (Alush Decl. ¶ 7.) Additionally, while working from home,
Plaintiff had qualified staff members “round on patients” for her and then report
to her. (Ibid.) Plaintiff discussed this system with Defendant, and
Defendant did not take issue with it. (Ibid.) This suggests that
Plaintiff could perform her duties remotely.  
            c. Providing a Reasonable Accommodation 
            Defendant
argues that it provided a reasonable accommodation by granting Plaintiff’s requests
to work from home. (UF 16-17, 21-22.) However, in October or November 2020,
Nate Hart asked Plaintiff to return to work in-person, and Plaintiff requested
an extension on remote work due to her asthma. (Alush Decl. ¶ 13.) Mr. Hart informed
Plaintiff that her only options were to return to work in-person or take a
leave of absence but advised Plaintiff against taking a leave of absence. (Ibid.)
Mr. Hart instructed Plaintiff to “lay low” until HR contacted her. (Ibid.)
Also in October 2020, Plaintiff emailed Dr. Marhsak about postponing her return
to work in-person due to her asthma but never received a response. (Id.,
¶ 15.) 
            The
evidence shows that while Plaintiff was allowed to work from home for a period
of time, she was eventually asked to return. A reasonable jury may find that Plaintiff’s
requests to continue working from home due to her asthma constitute requests for
a reasonable accommodation. The jury may further find that Plaintiff’s requests
were ignored or denied, based on the response Plaintiff received during her
call with Mr. Hart and the lack of response after her email to Dr. Marshak. Defendant
never expressly granted Plaintiff’s requests to continue working from home, and
instead ended Plaintiff’s employment. Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether
Defendant reasonably accommodated Plaintiff.
V. Interactive
Process
            FEHA
requires an employer to “engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process
with the employee or applicant to determine effective reasonable
accommodations, if any, in response to a request for reasonable accommodation
by an employee or applicant with a known physical or mental disability or known
medical condition.” (Gov. Code, § 12940(n).) 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff requested to work from home to homeschool her children
and not because of any medical condition, referencing an email from Plaintiff. (Hart
Decl., Ex. D.) While the email mentions homeschooling, Plaintiff also discusses
her “medical condition,” and in a subsequent email, Plaintiff requested to
continue working from home “given my medical condition.” (Ibid.) A
reasonable jury may find that Plaintiff requested remote work as an
accommodation for her medical condition rather than for homeschooling her kids.
  
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff could not properly work from home due to the
requirements of her job and that Defendant did in fact grant Plaintiff’s
requests to work from home. As discussed above, there are triable issues over
whether Plaintiff could properly work from home and whether Defendant
adequately responded to Plaintiff’s requests. Therefore, there are material
disputes of fact precluding summary adjudication of the interactive process
claim.
VI. Whistleblower
Retaliation
Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b)
makes it unlawful for an employer to retaliate against an employee for
reporting a perceived violation of a local, state, or federal statute or
regulation. “[O]nce it has been demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence
that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5 was a contributing factor in the
alleged prohibited action against the employee, the employer shall have the
burden of proof to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if
the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section 1102.5.” (Id.,
§ 1102.6.) The traditional McDonnell-Douglas framework does not apply,
and the plaintiff is not required to rebut with evidence of pretext. (Lawson
v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712.) 
 
a. Contributing Factor
Defendant argues that retaliation could
not have been a contributing factor to terminate Plaintiff because Plaintiff
was hired precisely to report patient complaints. (UF 8.) But just because
Defendant hired Plaintiff to report patient complaints, does not make it
impossible for Defendant to retaliate against Plaintiff for reporting those
complaints. In fact, Section 1102.5 expressly acknowledges that retaliation may
occur even if “disclosing the information is part of the employee’s job duties.”
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5(a).) Additionally, as discussed above, Plaintiff did not
only report patient complaints, but also instances of discrimination, which is
an additional basis for retaliation. (See Alush Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10.) 
Defendant argues that there is no evidence
it retaliated against Plaintiff for making complaints because Defendant responded
to each patient complaint and worked to resolve each incident. (UF 10, 12.) However,
the fact that Defendant addressed the incidents does not preclude the possibility
that Defendant subsequently retaliated against Plaintiff for making the
complaints. As discussed above, after Plaintiff complained, she was removed from various committees, had
work taken away, was not invited to safety meetings, and Dr. Marshak became
colder and less responsive to her. (Alush Decl. ¶ 11.) Additionally, when
Plaintiff made the disclosures, she was warned not to “expose” Dr. Marshak, not
to put things in writing because they are discoverable, and told to “stop
digging around.” (Id., ¶ 12.) This evidence tends to show that Defendant
viewed Plaintiff’s reporting negatively, and a reasonable jury may conclude
that the reporting was a contributing factor to Plaintiff’s termination.   
b. Reasonable Perception of a Legal
Violation
Section 1102.5 protects not only reports
of actual legal violations, but also a “reasonably based suspicion of illegal
activity.” (See Mokler
v. County of Orange
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 121, 138.) When engaging in protected reporting, an employee
is not required to expressly identify the particular law that he or she
believes is being violated. (Ross v. County of Riverside (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 580, 592-93.)
As discussed above, Plaintiff avers that
she reported discrimination against herself and a Jewish coworker. (Alush Decl.
¶¶ 8, 10.) Such discrimination would have violated FEHA at the very least.
Plaintiff also reported that the failure to use translation devices with
non-English-speaking patients violated California laws on patient rights. (Id.,
¶ 10.) Plaintiff disclosed that she believed it was a violation of law for Dr.
Marshak to give preferential vaccines to his family and friends. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff disclosed the existence of ignored patient grievances, which she
believed violated Medicare law. (Ibid.) The evidence must be interpreted
in Plaintiff’s favor. A reasonable jury may find that Plaintiff reported a “reasonably
based suspicion of illegal activity.”
VII.
Wrongful Termination
            Defendant argues that the wrongful
termination claim fails because the other claims fail. However, those claims
survive, as discussed above. Therefore, this claim survives as well. 
VIII.
Breach of Contract
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
Plaintiff
alleges breach of contract based on the allegation that she did not receive an
annual bonus despite qualifying for it. (Compl. ¶ 48.) Defendant’s Performance
Incentive Plan provides that the Patient Experience Manager is eligible to receive
monetary incentives for improving Defendant’s ratings across various review
platforms such as Yelp and Google. (UF 38.) Defendant claims that Plaintiff did
not meet the threshold for receiving these incentives. (UF 39, 42.) 
Defendant relies
on Mr. Hart’s declaration to support its claim that Plaintiff did not meet the incentive
requirements. (Hart Decl. ¶¶ 14-15.) However, Plaintiff has an opposing
declaration averring that she did raise Defendant’s review ratings and was
complimented by Dr. Marshak for doing so. (Alush Decl. ¶ 21.) Additionally, the
Performance Incentive Plan awards $1,000 for active participation in a minimum
of 9 out of 12 calendar year meetings. (Hart Decl., Ex. F.) Plaintiff avers
that she did this as well. (Alush Decl. ¶ 12.) This conflicting evidence raises
a triable issue for the jury to resolve. 
IX. Failure to Pay
Wages
            Because
this claim also derives from the issue over the Performance Incentive Plan, Defendant
incorporates the arguments made above. Therefore, there is a triable issue over
this claim as well.
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is DENIED. 
   