  Case Number:  24VECV01169    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Dana Drabinsky,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
4629 Fulton, LLC, et al.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  
  24VECV01169                       107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
Motion
  to Strike 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: Granted.
 
Grant with leave to amend.

 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
This
is a landlord-tenant dispute. Plaintiff Dana Drabinsky (“Plaintiff”) leased an
apartment located at 4629 Fulton Avenue, Sherman Oaks, 91423 (the “Subject
Property”). (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶ 14-15.) Defendants M West
Holdings, 4629 Fulton, LLC, Polaris Property Management, LLC, Cushman &
Wakefield, Inc. and Defendant Doe 1 Pinnacle Property Management Services
California Corp. owned, controlled, and/or managed the Subject Property. (FAC
¶¶ 1-6, 14.) Plaintiff was exposed to mold at the Subject Property for two
years and, on March 24, 2022, Plaintiff suffered an electric shock while using
the shower. (FAC ¶¶ 18, 27.) 
On
March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants 4629 Fulton,
LLC, M West Holdings, LLC, Cushman & Wakefield, Inc., Cushman &
Wakefield Global Services, Inc., Cushman & Wakefield of California, Inc.,
Cushman & Wakefield U.S., Inc., and Does 1 to 100, alleging three causes of
action for negligence, premises liability, and negligent hiring, supervision,
training, and retention.
On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint substituting
Pinnacle Property Management Services California Corp. for Doe 1. 
On
May 24, 2024, Defendants and Cross-Complaints 4629 Fulton, LLC and M West
Holdings, LLC filed a cross-complaint against Polaris Property Management, LLC,
Cushman & Wakefield, Inc., Cushman & Wakefield Global Services, Inc.,
Cushman & Wakefield U.S., Inc., Pinnacle Property Management, LLC, and Roes
1 to 20, alleging five causes of action for equitable indemnity, express
indemnity, contribution, negligence, and declaratory relief.
On
June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed requests to dismiss Defendants Cushman &
Wakefield of California, Inc., Cushman & Wakefield, Global Services, Inc.,
and Cushman & Wakefield U.S., Inc., and the Defendants were dismissed from
the complaint.
On
June 27, 2024, Defendants 4629 Fulton, LLC and M West Holdings, LLC filed
requests to dismiss Defendants Cushman & Wakefield of California, Inc.,
Cushman & Wakefield, U.S., Inc., Cushman & Wakefield, Global Services,
Inc., and Polaris Property Management, LLC, and the Defendants were dismissed
from the cross-complaint.
On
July 12, 2024, Defendants Cushman & Wakefield, Inc. and Pinnacle California
Corp. dba Pinnacle Property Management Services California Corp. (Doe 1)
(erroneously sued as Doe 1 Pinnacle Property Management Services California
Corp.) moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
August 19, 2024, this court granted the motion to strike and granted Plaintiff
leave to amend the complaint. (08/19/24 Minute Order p. 6.)
On
September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
 
On
October 11, 2024, Defendants Cushman & Wakefield, Inc. and Pinnacle
California Corp dba Pinnacle Property Management Services California Corp (Doe
1) (erroneously
sued as Doe 1 Pinnacle Property Management Services California Corp.)
(“Defendants”) filed a motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint (the “Motion”). Plaintiff filed no opposition. There is a stipulation (filed 10/18/24)
between Plaintiff and Defendants 4629 Fulton, LLC and M West Holdings, LLC
where Plaintiff agreed to withdraw the punitive damages claim, without
prejudice, against Defendants 4629 Fulton, LLC and M West Holdings, LLC.
II.             
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS 
 
A. Timeliness of Filings 
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure section¿435,
subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed within 30 days after
service of the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).) When service is made electronically, “[a]ny period of notice,
or any right or duty to do any act or make any response” is extended by two
court days. (Code Civ. Proc, § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).) 
Per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at
least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should
be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any
oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. 
 
Plaintiff served Defendants with the first amended complaint
electronically on September 9, 2024. Defendants filed the Motion on October 11,
2024, which is thirty days plus two court days after September 9, 2024.
Further, October 11, 2024, is more than sixteen court days before the November
20, 2024, hearing. 
 
Thus, the Motion was timely filed.
 
B. The Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a)
requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a
motion to strike to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the
motion to strike. 
 
Defendants’ counsel submits a declaration stating he met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel via written correspondence and telephone,
but Defendants’ counsel and Plaintiff’s counsel were unable to reach an
agreement. (Salas Declaration ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
This
court finds Defendants satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
III.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).)
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿437(a).) 
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.¿In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a
motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations
omitted).) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 503, 510.)
 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“[P]roof of negligence, even gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient
to warrant an award of punitive damages.” (Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) To
justify a punitive damages award, the defendant must be “guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code.,
§ 3294.) 
 
Malice
is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294(c)(1).) Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(3).)
 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not
be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And “conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,’ within the
meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves
v. Superior Court, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166; Today’s IV,
Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra,
83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the operative
complaint set forth the elements as stated in¿section 3294, it must
include¿specific¿factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for¿punitive¿damages.”].) 
 
An
employer shall not be liable for punitive damages based on the acts of an
employee, 
“unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)
 
IV.           
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants move to strike the
allegations, references to, and the prayer for punitive damages in the first
amended complaint, arguing that Plaintiff fails to allege any facts supporting
a claim for punitive damages. (Notice of Motion pp. 1-2.)
 
The first amended complaint alleges that
Plaintiff moved into the Subject Property on or about May 20, 2017. (FAC ¶
15.) Plaintiff alleges that shortly after she
moved into the Subject Property, she noticed the shower had low water pressure
and rusty/yellow water. (FAC ¶ 17.) Plaintiff
contacted Defendants and Defendants had the showerhead replaced, but the water
was still rusty/yellow. (FAC ¶ 17.) Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants then negligently hired an unfit plumber” who “did not install the
new valve per the Building code such that replacement was not a single-handle
valve” and “Defendants’ plumber left a live electrified conduit very close to
and/or touching the shower connections.” (FAC ¶ 17.) Plaintiff also alleges
Defendants did not inspect the plumber’s work. (FAC ¶ 17.) Plaintiff alleges
that for the next two years, the shower valve leaked and caused mold to grow,
causing Plaintiff to be exposed to mold. (FAC ¶ 18.)  On or about May 7, 2019, Plaintiff noticed a
shower leak in the apartment and notified Defendants. (FAC ¶ 19.) Later,
Defendants hired another plumber to fix the shower. (FAC ¶ 22.) On or about May
30, 2019, Plaintiff told Defendants they needed to check the apartment for mold
and asbestos. (FAC ¶ 24.) Defendants hired someone to check for mold and
asbestos, and the person refused to share the results with Plaintiff. (FAC ¶
24.) And “[o]n June 6, 2019, Defendants said the testing for mold and asbestos
was fine but refused to share the results with Plaintiff” and “[b]etween June
6, 2019 and July 11, 2019, despite Plaintiff’s repeated requests for the
testing results, Defendants refused to produce it.” (FAC ¶ 25.)  Plaintiff alleges that “[b]etween the time
Plaintiff moved into the property until March 24, 2022, Defendants repeatedly
conducted unpermitted renovations and repairs in and around Plaintiff’s
apartment unit with full knowledge of the risk of serious bodily injury/death
that could result to Plaintiff and others due to the unpermitted and unsafe
renovations and repairs.” (FAC ¶ 26.) And “[o]n March 24, 2022, Plaintiff
suffered an electric shock as she attempted to use the shower because
Defendants had recklessly electrified the shower in violation of basic safety
rules.” (FAC ¶ 27.)
 
Under
the punitive damages claim section, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s experienced
property managers/property owners, Defendants knew of the substantial risk of
death/injury that would result from performing serious repairs/renovations in
and around Plaintiff’s apartment.” (FAC ¶ 45.) Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendants, in 2019, “hired an attorney to reimburse Plaintiff . . . for the
times [Plaintiff] was unable to live at the [Subject] Property because of
Defendants’ negligence.” (FAC ¶ 46.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants, at the
behest of Defendants’ principals and senior executives, continued to implement
Defendants’ dangerous policy of intentionally skirting building safety codes to
save money when repairing and maintaining the [Subject] Property.” (FAC ¶ 48.)
Plaintiff also alleges “Defendants and their principals and senior executives
knew from the prior deadly hazard Defendants had created at the [Subject]
Property in 2019 that skirting building safety code requirements and hiring
unqualified and inexpensive repair and maintenance personnel would needlessly
expose the tenants and the public to deadly hazards, such as asbestos and/or
electrocution.” (FAC ¶
51.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “continued to recklessly
endanger its tenants through intentionally shoddy repairs at the [Subject]
Property between 2019 and 2022[,]” “misled Plaintiff into believing that
Defendants had learned from their prior despicable behavior and that the
repairs Defendants performed after hiring counsel were done properly[,]” and
“never warned Plaintiff that the shoddy work Defendants performed in
repairing/renovating the [Subject] Property would lead to the permanent and
catastrophic injuries that Plaintiff suffered.” (FAC ¶¶ 52-54.) 
 
As
noted in this court’s August 19, 2024, Minute Order, Plaintiff’s negligent
repair allegations, such as Defendants’ hiring workers who performed the work
negligently, amount to negligence or at most gross negligence, which is
insufficient for punitive damages. (08/19/24 Minute Order p. 5.)
 
Plaintiff
also alleges Defendants refused to produce the mold and asbestos test results.
However, a complaint must “include specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious[.]” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p.
1193.) Plaintiff’s factual allegations in the first amended complaint regarding
Defendants’ withholding the test results are identical to the complaint’s
allegations. And, in this court’s August 19, 2024, Minute Order, this court
concluded that Plaintiff had not set forth specific facts supporting the
elements for fraud. (08/19/24 Minute Order p. 5.) 
 
Plaintiff’s allegations under the
punitive damages claim are also insufficient to support punitive damages claim.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants hired counsel to reimburse Plaintiff for when
Plaintiff was unable to live at the property and to settle claims resulting
from their reckless endangerment of their tenants. (FAC ¶¶ 46,
52.) But hiring counsel to reimburse Plaintiff for when Plaintiff was unable to
live at the property does not show that Defendants acted with malice,
oppression, or fraud.  Further, Plaintiff
does not tie Defendants’ hiring counsel in 2019 to settle claims resulting from
Defendants’ reckless endangerment of their tenants to the factual allegations
in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint – namely that Defendants did not ensure
the plumbers performed their work properly and Defendants did not share the
asbestos and mold results with Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 24-27.) Finally,
Plaintiff’s remaining allegations under the punitive damages section are
insufficient because they do not set forth specific facts supporting the
punitive damages claims.
 
V.             
LEAVE
TO AMEND
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by
demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, ‘leave to amend is routinely and
liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.’” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
 
Even though this is the second motion to strike, this court
finds there is a reasonable possibility Plaintiff can cure the defect and
grants Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
VI.           
CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants the Motion and grants Plaintiff leave
to amend within thirty (30) days’ notice of this order.
 
 
 
 
Dated:                          November 20, 2024                                         _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court