 Case Number:  22STCV15379    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  14 Guffey, et al v. Rokit Inc.Case Background
 
This is a combination class and
PAGA action in which Plaintiffs allege violations of wage and hour laws.
 
On October 27, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Willful Misclassification,
(2) Failure to Pay Wages, (3) Failure to Provide Meal Breaks, (4) Willful
Misclassification, (5) Failure to Pay Wages, (6) Failure to Provide Meal
Breaks, (7) Failure to Provide Rest Breaks, (8) Waiting Time Penalties, (9)
Failure to Provide Sick Leave, (10) Failure to Provide Wage Statements, (11)
Failure to Maintain Accurate Records, (12) Failure to Provide Copies of Signed
Documents, (13) Failure to Reimburse, (14) Unfair Competition, (15) PAGA Violations
against Defendants Rokit Inc., Rokit Drinks LLC, Rokit Imports Inc., Rokit
Drinks Imports Inc., Rokit Drinks Resources Inc., Rokit Distillery Inc. (collectively
“Rokit”), Rokit Launch, Inc., Rokit Launch Resources, Inc. (collectively “Launch”),
Daniel Lewis (“Lewis”), Jonathan Kendrick (“Kendrick”), Dean Becker (“Becker”),
and DOES 1-10. 
 
Defendant Kendrick has not yet
been served.
 
On December 16, 2022, this court
granted a motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendants Rokit, Lewis, and Becker.
The court ordered the case stayed pending arbitration.
 
On June 8, 2023, this court vacated
the order compelling Plaintiff Jeffrey Moore (“Moore”) to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98. The court also lifted the stay on
Plaintiff Moore’s claims.
 
On October 17, 2023, this court
vacated the order compelling Plaintiff Jack Guffey (“Guffey”) to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98. The court also lifted the stay on
Plaintiff Guffey’s claims.
 
On the same date, this court
ordered Plaintiffs to fill out the Complex Civil Case Questionnaire and seek
admission to the court’s Complex Litigation Program pursuant to Local Rule
3.3(k)(6). On October 26, 2023, Plaintiffs did so. On November 1, 2023, Judge
David S. Cunningham III reviewed the Questionnaire and denied the case
admission to the Complex Litigation Program. The case remains assigned to this
department.
 
No trial date is currently set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendants
Rockit, Lewis, and Becker now demur to the FAC, on the grounds that (1) this
court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, (2) Plaintiffs lack capacity, (3)
there is another action pending, (4) there is a defect or misjoinder of
parties, (5) the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of
action, and (6) the FAC is uncertain. 
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED. The parties are to stipulate on a deadline for filing
the answer and include that deadline in their proposed case management order.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants should not have filed this demurrer because the complaint
was filed after a motion for leave was granted. That is incorrect. As the court
explained in its order granting the motion (Minute Order of October 17, 2023,
p. 5), the issue at that time was only whether any party would be prejudiced by
the mere fact of the change. This is the first opportunity Defendants have had
to challenge the pleadings on their merits. That challenge is fully available
to them and is not, as Plaintiffs suggest, a “waste of judicial resources.”
 
Class Certification
 
            The first
argument raised in the demurrer is that Plaintiffs cannot adequately represent
their alleged class. It is not clear that this question is properly addressed
by way of demurrer. Defendants say that the court’s ability to handle this
question at this stage is “firmly established,” but the citation they provide
discusses a substantial split of authority. Tucker v. Pacific Bell Mobile
Services (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 201, 211-215. 
 
            The court
need not choose a side on that split, however, because Defendants rest their
argument on documents that are outside the four corners of the FAC. Defendants assert
that these items are judicially noticeable. But no request for judicial notice
was submitted in connection with this pleading. Instead, Defendants ask the
court to refer to other requests filed in connection with other hearings at other
times. (Demurrer p. 7:9-13). The court is not willing to do so.
 
            The court
may freely sift through its file to determine what arguments were made and
positions taken by any given party, in the interest of bringing consistency and
fairness to the proceedings. However, the court may not use its file to create
a substantive evidentiary record on behalf of one of the parties. Prior to
trial, evidence is offered and taken at certain times for certain purposes;
that does not mean it can automatically be used at other times for other
purposes. Setting aside the court’s own need for clarity in its records, the
opposing party is entitled to notice and an opportunity to object. Therefore,
if any party wishes the court to take judicial notice of something in
connection with any given hearing, a separate request must be made for that
hearing, pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 3.1306(c).
 
            The court
lacks an adequate record to decide any issue relating to class certification at
this time.
 
Integrated Enterprise
 
            The next
argument raised in the demurrer is that Plaintiffs were not injured by every
person or entity listed as a Defendant in the FAC. In order to maintain their
claims against all Defendants, Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants formed an
integrated enterprise, and therefore should be treated as a single entity. (FAC
¶¶ 23-30). Defendants argue that those allegations are insufficient.
 
            To determine
whether a given set of Defendants is an “integrated enterprise,” the court must
evaluate four factors: “[1] interrelation of operations, [2] common management,
[3] centralized control of labor relations, and [4] common ownership or
financial control.” Laird v. Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 727, 737. The fourth factor, common ownership or control,
is never sufficient by itself to establish an integrated enterprise. Id.
at 738. The most important factor is the third – centralized control of labor
relations. Id.
 
            This test
is necessarily fact-specific, making it difficult to reasonably apply on
demurrer. Plaintiffs are not obliged to plead evidentiary facts. C.W.
Johnson & Sons, Inc. v. Carpenter (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 165,
169. Nor can they be held to a standard of particularity where, as here, the
relevant evidence is more likely to lie in the possession of the defense. See Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236. Plaintiffs have sufficiently pled the
ultimate facts regarding this doctrine. Whether they can provide sufficient
evidence at a later stage is another question.
 
Other Actions
 
            By
its plain statutory terms, the “other action” ground for a demurrer applies where
“[t]here is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause
of action.” Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(c). The statutory rule has
also been paired with the common law doctrine of “exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction,” which applies in situations where two courts have jurisdiction over
the same “cause,” even if the parties and claims might be different. See Franklin
& Franklin v. 7-Eleven Owners for Fair Franchising (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th
1168, 1175. Both rules are raised as a “plea in abatement,” meaning that the
remedy is to halt the second action until the first is concluded.
 
            The “other
action” asserted here is an arbitration between Defendants and a different
Plaintiff. Again, in the absence of a specific request for judicial notice, the
court has no facts or evidence before it regarding this arbitration. However,
even if those facts were before the court, it is doubtful that either Section
430.10(c) or exclusive concurrent jurisdiction would apply to an arbitration.
 
            The rule of
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction applies where two courts possess subject
matter jurisdiction. Franklin, supra, 85 Cal.App.4th
at 1175. Arbitrations, by definition, do not proceed in “court.” And for purposes
of Section 430.10(c), Defendants produce no authority which suggests that an
arbitration counts as an “action” for demurrer purposes. The case of Colvig
v. RKO General, Inc. (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 56 does not address the issue.
The two actions in that case were (1) a petition to confirm an arbitration
award reinstating the plaintiff in his job, and (2) a suit for damages incurred
from the firing. Id. at 62-63. The case discusses what it means for a court
action to be “pending;” it does not discuss whether an arbitration is an “action.”
 
            There are
other reasons why arbitrations should not be considered “actions” for these
purposes. First, the legislature has already provided detailed rights and
remedies for the parties to an arbitration in the California Arbitration Act.
If there is an issue with a pending arbitration, parties should find their
remedy in the provisions of that act, or else in an action for declaratory and injunctive
relief regarding their arbitration agreement (or lack thereof). Second, the purpose
of these rules is to avoid creating additional burdens for the court and
parties. But parties contract for arbitration; a party who agrees to a burden
cannot thereafter complain about it. C.f. Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263 (arbitration agreements must be
enforced even if they lead to poor administrative outcomes).
 
            The “other
action” argument is not persuasive.
 
Misjoinder of Parties
 
            Defendants’
final argument is that Plaintiffs have failed to serve the Launch Defendants.
While this was true at the time the demurrer was filed, it isn’t any longer.
Proof of service was filed with the court on December 8, 2023, and the Launch
Defendants have filed their own demurrer, currently set for hearing on February
28, 2024. That argument is therefore MOOT.
 
Conclusion
 
            This
demurrer was properly brought. However, the arguments raised are not persuasive
at this stage, on this record. The issues of class certification and the
existence of an integrated enterprise are best decided on evidentiary motions. And
there is no authority for the proposition that a pending arbitration can
support a demurrer on “other action” grounds. Therefore, the demurrer is
OVERRULED. The parties are to stipulate on a deadline for filing the answer and
include that deadline in their proposed case management order.
 
(2)       Case
Management Conference
 
            At the
prior case management conference, this court deemed the case complex pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 3.402(b) and Local Rule 3.3(k)(5). The court
ordered counsel to do two things: (1) pay their complex litigation fees
pursuant to Government Code § 70616 within 30 days, and (2) meet and
confer and lodge a proposed case management order. (Minute Order of December 14,
2023).
 
            Plaintiffs paid
their complex case fee on December 14, 2023. Defendants have not yet paid
theirs. Therefore, the court SETS an OSC re: payment of fees for February 28,
2024, at 8:30 am.
 
            Counsel met
and conferred over email, but could not agree on a proposed case management
order. Each side served a proposed order of their own on January 26, 2024.
Neither version will be signed by the court.
 
            Defendants’
proposal includes findings about the general volume of discovery already
served, as well as the parties’ intentions. (Defendants’ Request for
Continuance p. 2:18-20). This material is not appropriate to a court order.
Plaintiff’s proposal includes discovery procedures that differ from the ones set
forth on this department’s Courtroom information page, and suggests that this
court will handle motions informally. (Plaintiffs’ Proposed Order p. 4:22-26).
Only Informal Discovery Conferences will proceed informally. The proposal also
specifies that counsel should call the court to reserve motions and set a briefing
schedule. (Id. p. 4:20-21). Motions should be reserved on the Court Reservation
System, and briefing schedules will follow the applicable statutory scheme in
the absence of a specific reason otherwise.
 
            Additionally,
counsel should be aware that when this court says “meet and confer,” it means
that counsel should actually speak with one another, whether by telephone,
videoconference, or in-person. Emails and letters may be used to document a
conversation, not as a substitute for one.
 
            The case
management conference is CONTINUED to February 28, 2024, at 8:30 am. Counsel
are to meet and confer and prepare a proposed case management order in light of
the guidance offered above. The proposed order should be submitted by noon on
February 20, 2024.
 