Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: BC572581
Plaintiff's Name: Intelligent SCM, LLC, dba American Worldwide Agencies
Defendant's Name: Russell W. Roten, et al.
People-Names: Russell W. Roten, Duane Morris, Andrew P. Scott, Peter Lamy, Graham Burford
Company-Names: Intelligent SCM, LLC, dba American Worldwide Agencies, Duane Morris LLP
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: February 13, 2015, July 9, 2019, April 27, 2017, May 3, 2017, August 25, 2023, October 5, 2023, October 10, 2024
Events: Filing of lawsuit, serving of requests for production, motion to compel further responses
Money: Attorney's fees, damages
Intentions: To recover attorney's fees and damages
Facts: ISCM seeks to recover attorney's fees and damages; Duane Morris seeks production of documents related to attorney's fees
Disputes: Duane Morris seeks production of unredacted invoices; ISCM objects to production of privileged work product and protected attorney-client communications
Acts: Filing of motion to compel further responses, serving of requests for production, opposing party's objections
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.030
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles:
  * Judge: Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
  * Plaintiff: Intelligent SCM, LLC, dba American Worldwide Agencies
  * Defendant: Russell W. Roten, et al.
  * Counsel: Duane Morris LLP, ISCM's counsel
Significant Statements:
  * "When a party seeks attorney fees as damages caused by an insurer's breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing under Brandt v. Superior Court (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813, 819 [210 Cal. Rptr. 211, 693 P.2d 796] (Brandt), it impliedly waives the attorney-client privilege with respect to its attorney fees agreements, invoices, fees statements, billing records, receipts, and proof of payments (collectively, attorney fees documents) that evidence the amount of its damages." (Byers v. Superior Court, 101 Cal.App.5th 1003, 1006)
  * "The Court finds that Duane Morris has demonstrated good cause for an order compelling a further response to its Request for Production No. 47. However, the Court also finds that there is merit to ISCM's objections that Request for Production No. 47 seeks privileged work product and protected attorney-client communications."
  * "The Court orders ISCM to provide a further verified response to Duane Morris's Request for Production No. 47, within 30 days of the date of this Order."
```

Summary:
The judge's tentative ruling is in response to Duane Morris's motion to compel further responses from Intelligent SCM, LLC (ISCM) to its request for production of documents related to attorney's fees. The motion is granted in part, with ISCM ordered to provide a further verified response to the request and produce documents responsive to the request, but with the option to redact privileged work product and protected attorney-client communications. The court finds that Duane Morris has demonstrated good cause for the order, but also notes that ISCM has raised valid objections to the production of privileged information. The court denies Duane Morris's request for monetary sanctions and ISCM's request for monetary sanctions.