 Case Number:  BC572581    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



INTELLIGENT SCM, LLC, dba AMERICAN
WORLDWIDE AGENCIES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RUSSELL W. ROTEN, et al.

                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC572581




Hearing Date:


October 10, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANT
  DUANE MORRIS LLP’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES FROM PLAINTIFF TO
  REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 47, OF ITS FOURTH SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



            
            Background
Plaintiff Intelligent
SCM, LLC, dba American Worldwide Agencies filed this action on February 13,
2015 against Defendants Russell W. Roten (“Roten”) and Duane Morris.  
Intelligent SCM, LLC,
dba American Worldwide Agencies filed the operative Fourth Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on July 9, 2019 against Roten, Duane Morris, and Andrew P. Scott. The
FAC alleges causes of action for (1) constructive fraud and breach of fiduciary
duty, (2) legal malpractice, (3) negligence (4) fraud, (5) tort of another, (6)
intentional interference with contractual relationship, (7) negligent
interference with contractual relationship,
(8) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (9) negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage, (10) negligent supervision, (11) conversion, and (12)
aiding and abetting.   
On April 27, 2017,
Andrew Scott (“Scott”) filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of
Cross-Defendants, alleging five causes of action. On May 3, 2017, Peter Lamy
and Graham Burford filed a Cross-Complaint against Scott. The Cross-Complaint
alleges two causes of action. 
On August 25, 2023, Duane
Morris LLP (“Duane Morris”) served its Fourth Set of Requests for Production of
Documents on Intelligent SCM, LLC (“ISCM”). (Scott Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) The
Fourth Set of Requests for Production of Documents include, inter alia,
Request for Production No. 47. (Ibid.) On October 5, 2023, ISCM served
responses to Duane Morris’s Fourth Set of Requests for Production of Documents.
(Scott Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) 
Counsel for Duane Morris
met and conferred with ISCM’s counsel concerning asserted deficiencies in ISCM’s
responses to the Fourth Set of Requests for Production of Documents. (Scott
Decl., ¶¶ 6-8, Exs. 4-5.)  
On April 24, 2024, the
parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). The Court’s
April 24, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Informal
Discovery Conference is held. The parties fulfilled the IDC requirement for the
issues raised in the IDC Statements for today’s IDC.”[1] 
Duane Morris now moves for
an order “pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2031.310 compelling Plaintiff, Intelligent SCM, LLC dba
American Worldwide Agencies…to provide a verified response to Request for
Production 47 in which it commits to producing all responsive documents, and to
produce all such responsive documents within fourteen days of the Order, as
well as for monetary sanctions…” ISCM opposes. 
            Legal
Standard 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a) provides that “[o]n
receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1)¿A statement¿of compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2)¿A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3)¿An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” A motion
under subdivision (a) shall “set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand,” and “shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b).) 
Discussion
            As set forth above, Duane Morris
moves for an order “compelling [ISCM]…to
provide a verified response to Request for Production 47 in which it commits to
producing all responsive documents…” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:6-9.) 
            Duane
Morris’s Request for Production No. 47 seeks “All INVOICES and BILLS RELATED TO
any attorney services provided to YOU in connection with the MALPRACTICE CASE.”
(Scott Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.)[2] ISCM’s
response to Request for Production No. 47 sets forth objections, and provides, inter
alia, that “[s]ubject to and without waiving the foregoing objections,
Plaintiff responds as follows: Information contained in the invoices and bills
for attorney services provided to Plaintiff in this Malpractice Case includes
vast amounts of information that is absolutely privileged work product, and
protected attorney-client communication.” (Scott Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.)
            In
the motion, Duane Morris asserts that “ISCM seeks to recover as damages the
attorneys’ fees it purportedly has incurred in litigating this action.” (Mot.
at p. 2:13-14.) Duane Morris points to pages 51 and 52 of ISCM’s “Third
Amended, Further, and Supplemental Responses” to Duane Morris’s “Special
Interrogatories to Putative Plaintiff Intelligent SCM, LLC, Set No. Three.”
(Scott Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) ISCM’s “Second Amended Supplemental Response To
Interrogatory No. 9” lists a number of “fees” and “costs” next to the
categories “Speed Case,” “Embezzlement Case,” “Malpractice Case,” and “Crease
Case.” (Scott Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, pp. 51-52.)[3] 
            Duane
Morris cites to Byers v. Superior Court (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1003, 1006,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n this writ proceeding, George and
Sheila Byers challenge the trial court to vacate its order granting
USAA General Indemnity Company’s (USAA) motion to compel further responses to
document requests seeking attorney fees documents. The Byerses further request
that we order the trial court to delay production of their attorney fees
documents until after the jury makes a determination of liability. We conclude
that the trial court did not err and deny the petition.” The Byers
Court found that “[w]hen a party seeks attorney fees as damages caused by an
insurer’s breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing under Brandt v. Superior Court (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813,
819 [210 Cal. Rptr. 211, 693 P.2d 796] (Brandt), it impliedly waives
the attorney-client privilege with respect to its attorney fees agreements,
invoices, fees statements, billing records, receipts, and proof of payments
(collectively, attorney fees documents) that evidence the amount of its
damages.” (Ibid.) 
            The
Court of Appeal in Byers found that “the Byerses’ admission that they
are seeking Brandt fees as an element of their damages is an
implied waiver of the attorney-client privilege at least as to the attorney
fees documents that the Byerses plan to rely upon to seek to prove the
amount of fees they reasonably incurred to establish their right to benefits
under USAA’s insurance policy. The parties have not cited, nor are we
aware of, any controlling authority specifically holding that a party
claiming Brandt fees impliedly waives the attorney-client
privilege as to documentation supporting the fees, including fees agreements
and invoices. However, it is well established in other contexts
that [w]here privileged information goes to the heart of the claim,
fundamental fairness requires that it be disclosed for the litigation to
proceed.” (Byers v. Superior Court, supra,
101 Cal.App.5th at p. 1011 [internal
quotations and citation omitted].) The Court of Appeal noted that “[w]e
agree with the trial court that USAA has a right to learn during discovery of
the attorney fees aspect of the Byerses’ alleged damages and that by
seeking such damages the Byerses have impliedly waived the attorney-client
privilege. The Byerses have put at issue the attorney fees they incurred in an
effort to seek coverage under their insurance policy, and disclosure of
documents supporting their claim for such fees is necessary to fairly
adjudicate the issue of damages.” (Id. at p. 1012.) 
            Duane
Morris asserts that accordingly, “[h]aving made a claim to recover its
attorneys’ fees as damages, ISCM must produce the documents relevant to that
claim…” (Mot. at p. 2:1-3.) 
            In
the opposition, ISCM does not appear to dispute that it is seeking attorney’s
fees in this case. However, ISCM asserts that it “cannot be compelled to
produce unredacted invoices.” (Opp’n at p. 10:14.) ISCM notes that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.030, subdivision (a),
“[a] writing that reflects an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
legal research or theories is not discoverable under any circumstances.” ISCM submits
the declaration of its counsel, who states that “[t]he ISCM invoices sought by
RFP No. 47 are replete with its attorneys’ mental impressions, conclusions,
opinions, legal research subjects and theories.” (Zelener Decl., ¶ 9.)[4] 
            ISCM
also asserts that “Byers – the case upon which Duane Morris principally
relies – expressly contemplates redaction of work product.” (Opp’n at p.
11:17-18.) In Byers, the Court of Appeal noted as follows:
 
“The Byerses claim that the trial court
abused its discretion by ordering an in camera review of attorney invoices.
Their argument overstates what the trial court actually ordered and is
premature given the current stage of the proceedings.
 
The relevant portion of the order
states: ‘Byers’ counsel may redact the documents to remove references that
counsel believes reflect attorney work product, i.e., information that may
give an indication of counsel’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research or theories, or as to consultants or expert witnesses for which the
attorney work product doctrine has not been waived by Byers’ counsel. [¶]
… [¶] USAA GIC may challenge the redactions made by counsel for Byers, and
such redactions will be evaluated by the Court in an in camera hearing.’
 
The Byerses have not yet produced any
responsive documents, and it is unknown the extent to which they may redact any
responsive documents and whether USAA will seek to challenge the redactions.
Thus, the trial court’s order regarding in camera review is conditioned upon
redactions and subsequent challenges to the redactions. Given the undeveloped
record, the issue framed by the Byerses is speculative and premature. Further,
the issue of the propriety of conducting an in camera review of potentially
redacted documents and the proper scope of such a review was not presented to
the trial court. When the trial court made its ruling at the hearing on USAA’s
motion to compel, it mentioned the possibility of conducting an in camera
review at some point in the future and neither party raised any objections to
such a proceeding. If the Byerses produce redacted documents in response
to USAA’s document requests and if USAA challenges any redactions, the parties
may then present their positions to the trial court regarding whether, and to
what extent, it may review the redacted material in camera.” (Byers v. Superior Court, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 1014.) 
ISCM argues that “[a]s
Duane Morris correctly states, Byers holds that, where attorney’s fees
are sought as an element of damages, defendant is entitled to take discovery
into the attorney’s fees sought. However, there is absolutely nothing in Byers
that stands for the proposition that defendant is entitled to the wholesale
production of unredacted invoices.” (Opp’n at p. 11:19-22.) This does not
appear to be disputed by Duane Morris. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Duane Morris has demonstrated good cause for an order
compelling a further response to its Request for Production No. 47. However,
the Court also finds that there is merit to ISCM’s objections that Request for
Production No. 47 seeks privileged work product and protected attorney-client
communications. Accordingly, as discussed in further detail below, the Court is
inclined to grant the motion, subject to the limitations discussed below in the
“Conclusion” section of this order. 
            Lastly,
Duane Morris seeks monetary sanctions against ISCM. Duane Morris does not
appear to cite any legal authority in support of its request for sanctions. To
the extent Duane Morris seeks monetary sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, this provision provides that  “the court shall impose a monetary
sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) The Court
finds that ISCM acted with substantial justification in presenting its position
in the opposition. Thus, the Court declines to award monetary sanctions to
Duane Morris. 
            ISCM
also seeks monetary sanctions against Duane Morris. The Court finds that Duane
Morris acted with substantial justification in presenting its position and
declines to award monetary sanctions to ISCM.  
Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, Duane Morris’s motion is granted in part. 
The Court orders ISCM to
provide a further verified response to Duane Morris’s Request for Production
No. 47, within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿In addition, within 30 days
of the date of this Order, ISCM is ordered to produce documents responsive to Duane
Morris’s Request for Production No. 47, but ISCM may redact the documents to
remove references that ISCM’s counsel believes reflects “an attorney’s
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (a).) If Duane
Morris disputes the redactions made by counsel for ISCM, the parties must
meet and confer in person or via telephone or video conference in a good faith
effort to resolve the dispute; if the meet and confer is unsuccessful, the
parties must participate in an informal discovery conference (i.e., a
further meet and confer with the Court as a participant). 
            Duane
Morris’s request for monetary sanction is denied. ISCM’s request for monetary
sanctions is also denied. 
Duane Morris is
ordered to provide notice of this order.
 
DATED:  October 10, 2024                     ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


