 Case Number:  20STCV10953    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  61 CV COMMUNITIES, LLC, A DELAWARE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, et al. vs ANTELOPE VALLEY-EAST KERN WATER AGENCY, A CALIFORNIA PUBLIC ENTITY , et al.TENTATIVE  Defendant City of Palmdale’s Motion to Bifurcate Legal and Equitable Issues is GRANTED.Defendant to provide notice.DISCUSSION“The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action . . . or of any separate issue . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) Additionally, “[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)“It is within the discretion of the court to bifurcate issues or order separate trials of actions, such as for breach of contract and bad faith, and to determine the order in which those issues are to be decided.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co., Inc. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205.) “The major objective of bifurcated trials is to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)Defendant City of Palmdale (Palmdale) seeks to bifurcate trial and have the parties’ equitable claims tried first before the court, to leave remaining legal issues tried by a jury. (Motion at pp. 5–6.) Palmdale contends that Plaintiffs’ CV Communities, LLC and City Ventures LLC (Plaintiffs) first and second causes of action for breach of contract both contain requests for equitable remedies, including rescission and specific performance, and that their third and fourth causes of action for reformation and declaratory relief are equitable in nature. (Motion at pp. 7–9.) As such, Palmdale argues that having these matters tried before the court pursuant to ordinary judicial practice would promote judicial efficiency, as such a trial would obviate the need to call a jury on the issue of liability for breach of contract, and leave at most the issue of damages for resolution by the jury. (Ibid.)Equitable issues are ordinarily tried before legal issues, although courts retain discretion to alter the order of trial:The order of trial, in mixed actions with equitable and legal issues, has great significance because the first factfinder may bind the second when determining factual issues common to the equitable and legal issues. It is well-established in California jurisprudence that the court may decide the equitable issues first, and this decision may result in factual and legal findings that effectively dispose of the legal claims. This District Court of Appeal has observed that the “better practice” is for “the trial court [to] determine the equitable issues before submitting the legal ones to the jury. The historical reason for this procedure, at least as concerns equitable defenses, is that the same order of trial was observed when there were separate law and equity courts: If a defendant at law had an equitable defense, he resorted to a bill in equity to enjoin the suit at law, until he could make his equitable defense effective by a hearing before the chancellor. The practical reason for this procedure is that the trial of the equitable issues may dispense with the legal issues and end the case. In short, trial of equitable issues first may promote judicial economy.(Hoopes v. Dolan (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 146, 156–157, internal quotations, alterations and citations omitted.)Plaintiffs in opposition argue that Palmdale has needlessly delayed bringing this motion to bifurcate, only raising the potential for such a measure at the June 10, 2024 final status conference, to be heard on the present expedited hearing schedule. (Opposition at p. 15.) Plaintiffs note that all of Palmdale’s claims have been dismissed, and that no claims are asserted against it except by the court’s direction to include Palmdale as a necessary party. (Opposition at p. 5.) Plaintiffs argue that the bifurcation sought by Palmdale would create duplicative proceedings, as any jury that is empaneled to decide the damages issue will need to hear duplicative testimony, evidence, and argument on the background of the case. (Opposition at pp. 16–18.) Plaintiffs finally argue that trying equitable issues first would risk depriving Plaintiffs of their right to jury trial on their legal claims. (Opposition at pp. 18–19.)Palmdale’s motion has merit, because there is little reason here to depart from the ordinary practice of trying equitable issues before legal ones. Plaintiffs’ causes of action for reformation and declaratory relief are equitable in nature, and concern the same facts as Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claims. (Artus v. Gramercy Towers Condominium Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 923, 930 [“declaratory relief is an equitable remedy”]; Komorsky v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 960, 974 [“Reformation is an equitable remedy”].) And Plaintiffs’ breach of contract actions seek the equitable remedies of specific performance and rescission. (Benach v. County of Los Angeles (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836, 846 [“A claim for specific performance is an equitable one.”]; Foxcroft Productions, Inc. v. Universal City Studios, LLC (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1119, 1137 [“Rescission is an equitable remedy.”].) These matters may be tried first before the court, with the court’s findings binding upon any subsequent jury trial on remaining issues.Such an ordering of the case does not deprive Plaintiffs of their right to jury trial. Although a claim for damages resulting from breach of contract is a legal claim with a right to jury trial (Raedeke v. Gibraltar Sav. & Loan Assn. (1974) 10 Cal.3d 665, 671), the trial of equitable issues first is consistent with this right:Where a ‘mixed bag’ of legal and equitable claims is presented in a case, a court trial of the equitable claims first may obviate the necessity of a jury trial on the legal claims, but otherwise the plaintiff cannot be denied the right to a jury trial on the legal causes of action. If ‘there are equitable and legal remedies sought in the same action, the parties are entitled to have a jury determine the legal issues unless the trial court's initial determination of the equitable issues is also dispositive of the legal issues, leaving nothing to be tried by a jury.(Orange County Water Dist. v. Alcoa Global Fasteners, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 252, 354–355.)Bifurcating trial in this manner here would promote judicial economy here, as the court’s findings on equitable issues would obviate the need for trial on such issues before a jury. Assuming a jury trial is necessary after a bench trial, such a trial would likely be limited to the issue of damages.The motion to bifurcate is therefore GRANTED.