  Case Number:  23STCV05479    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV05479




MOTION:  


Motion to Deem Admitted




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Fidelity National Title Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Fidelity National Title Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) moves to deem admitted
matters specified in Requests for Admissions, set one (“RFA”), which Plaintiff
served on Defendant Peter Mullins (“Defendant”). 
ANALYSIS
When a party fails
to respond to requests for admissions, the propounding party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).)  The Court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted the matters specified in the requests for
admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission
have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).)  
Plaintiff served
the RFA on Defendant by mail and electronically on April 1, 2024.  As of the filing date of this motion, Defendant
has not responded to the RFA. 
Accordingly, the motion is granted. 
Defendant is deemed to have admitted the matters specified in the
RFA.  
Plaintiff seeks
sanctions in connection with the motion. 
The Court finds Defendant’s failure to respond to the RFA and provide an
explanation for such failure is an abuse of the discovery process and awards
sanctions.  The Court imposes sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $900, which represents three hours of counsel’s time
to prepare the motion and attend the hearing at $300 per hour.  Defendant is to pay sanctions in the amount
of $900 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 30 days.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 