 Case Number:  23STCV10042B    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV10042B




MOTION


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Pitzer College




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Brendan Schultz



 
MOTION
Defendant Pitzer
College (“Defendant”) demurs to and moves to strike portions of the  complaint of Plaintiff Brendan Schultz
(“Plaintiff”).  Plaintiff alleges he is a
former student of Defendant who reported Defendant for discriminating against
Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s religious faith. 
(First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 4, 7, 15-16.)  Plaintiff further alleges that, in
retaliation, Defendant failed to endorse Plaintiff’s application for a grant as
an alumnus of Defendant.  (Id., ¶¶
17-18, 20.)  Plaintiff opposes the
motions.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
First Cause of Action: Violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
To state a cause
of action under the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Unruh), Plaintiff must allege Defendant
is a business establishment that intentionally denied Plaintiff full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services based on
Plaintiff’s sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability,
medical condition, marital status, or sexual orientation. (Civ. Code, § 51,
subd. (b).)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
is a non-profit college.  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 7.)  A non-profit
educational establishment is not a business establishment for purposes of Unruh
unless it “has some significant resemblance to an ordinary for-profit
business.”  (Doe v. California
Lutheran High School Assn. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 828, 839.)  Plaintiff does not allege Defendant operates
in a manner akin to a for-profit business. 
Rather, Plaintiff alleges Defendant offers services to its students for
compensation, employs staff and faculty for compensation, invests in its campus,
and utilizes marketing efforts.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 29.)  These
attributes are typical of non-profit educational establishments and do not convert
Defendant into an ordinary for-profit business. 
Likewise, Plaintiff alleges Defendant engages in fundraising.  3Iid.) 
Again, this is typical of non-profit educational establishments.  Fundraising is not typical conducted by for-profit
businesses, which tend to rely exclusively on revenue.  As such, Plaintiff fails to allege Defendant
is liable under Unruh.  
Further, as the
basis for his cause of action under Unruh, Plaintiff cites the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA).  To state a cause of action
under the ADA, Plaintiff must allege he is a disabled person who suffered
adverse actions because of his disabilities. 
(Bagatti v. Dept. of Rehabilitation (2007) 97 Cal.App.4th 344,
360.)  A violation of the ADA is also a
violation of Unruh.  (Civ. Code, § 51,
subd. (f); Baughman v. Walt Disney World Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1438,
1446.)  Plaintiff does not allege any
facts demonstrating Defendant discriminated against him because of a disability.  In fact, Plaintiff contends Defendant
accommodated his disability.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 30.)  
Second Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
“The elements of
the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.  The defendant must have engaged in conduct
intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will
result.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal quotations and
citations omitted.)  In this regard, Plaintiff
alleges Defendant “refus[ed] to nominate Plaintiff for the Davis Projects for
Peace Alumni Grant, a professional opportunity that Plaintiff was qualified for
and which would have significantly advanced his career . . . .”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 45.)  That does not amount to the extreme and
outrageous conduct that would lead to liability under an IIED claim.  Thus, Plaintiff fails to allege facts to
support the cause of action for IIED.
Third Cause of Action: Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED)  
“NIED is a tort in negligence, and the
plaintiff must establish the elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and
damages.  [A] right to recover for
emotional distress as a direct victim arises from the breach of a duty that is
assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or
that arises out of the defendant's preexisting relationship with the
plaintiff.” (Moon v. Guardian Postacute Services, Inc. (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 1005, 1009, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant was negligent by “retaliating
against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff initiating and participating in internal and
external civil rights investigations.”  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 58.)  Plaintiff does
not allege Defendant breached a duty of care, but rather that it breached a
statutory obligation.  Plaintiff fails to
allege a claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress.  For the same reason, Plaintiff’s eighth cause
of action for negligence fails.
Fourth Cause of Action: Breach
of Contract  
Plaintiff is
entitled to plead breach of contract in general terms.  (Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 782, 795.)  Plaintiff,
nonetheless, must allege Defendant offered to enter into an agreement with
Plaintiff, and Plaintiff accepted that offer. 
(See Donovan v. RRL Corporation (2001) 26 Cal.4th 261,
270-271.)  In this regard, Plaintiff
alleges Defendant breached its own policies and procedures.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 66-69.)  Plaintiff fails to state facts to suggest Defendant
intended these policies to be offers to enter into a contract with
Plaintiff.  Rather, Plaintiff’s
allegations suggest Defendant’s policies are open offers to contract with anyone
who reviews them, which is irrational. 
As such, Plaintiff fails to allege Defendant breached a contract with
Plaintiff.  For the same reason,
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing fails because a prerequisite for that claim is the
existence of a contractual relationship between the parties (Smith v. San
Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49), which, as explained above, does
not exist.    
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action:
Fraud 
Plaintiff must
allege fraud with particularity.  “This
means: (1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient;
and (2) every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full,
factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading
will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any
material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray,
Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  To state a claim for promissory fraud, Plaintiff
must allege specific factual circumstances beyond contract breach, which
reflect Defendant’s contemporaneous intent not to perform.  (Hills Transportation Co. v. Southwest
Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant represented it
would not retaliate against complaints of discrimination but discriminated
against Plaintiff after Plaintiff reported having been discriminated against.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 86-89.)  Plaintiff fails to allege specific facts showing
Defendant did not intend to abide by its representation at the time it made the
representation.  
Additionally,
Plaintiff’s claims are premised on Defendant’s failure to recommend Plaintiff for
a grant.  As such, Plaintiff’s complaint
seeks to “compel[] [Defendant] to speak a particular message,” which implicates
Defendant’s First Amendment rights.  (National
Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra (2018) 585 U.S. 755, 766.)  The Court cannot grant Plaintiff’s request to
compel Defendant to recommend Plaintiff for a grant unless that request is narrowly
tailored to a compelling state interest. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff fails to
identify any compelling state interest that would support his claims.  
Therefore, the
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint.  
Motion to Strike
Sustaining the
demurrer renders the motion to strike moot. 
However, the Court notes Plaintiff fails to allege facts to support his
prayer for punitive damages.  In ruling
on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.)  To state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in
the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)
 A plaintiff must allege the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute
as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) 
“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient
to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances
of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166 (Grieves), internal citations and footnotes omitted.)
Plaintiff does not
allege any specific facts to show Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression.  As such, Plaintiff has not
alleged a claim for punitive damages against Defendant.  Likewise, Plaintiff has not alleged any facts
demonstrating he is entitled to attorney fees or restitution.  
Defendant also moves to strike various
allegations it contends are false.  A
motion to strike cannot be used as a “‘line item veto’ for the civil defendant
. . . .”  (PH II, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.) 
Defendant is not entitled to remove any allegation it contends is incorrect.  
The Court has already provided Plaintiffs
with an opportunity to state claims against Defendant, and Plaintiff failed to
do so.  As such, leave to amend is likely
futile.  However, in an abundance of
caution, the Court will provide Plaintiff with one more opportunity to amend to
state viable claims against Defendant.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is sustained with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended
complaint within 10 days.
Defendant is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 