  Case Number:  21STCV05519    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/25/23
Case #21STCV05519
 
MOTION FOR
DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Motion filed on 8/22/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Henry
and Sara Rose, LLC and Rose Brothers Enterprises 

RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant GMCND, Inc. dba La Placita
Market
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
determining that the settlement entered into between Defendants Henry and Sara
Rose, LLC and Rose Brothers Enterprises (the Rose Defendants), Plaintiff Raul
Cabrera and Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC was made in good faith pursuant to
CCP 877 and CCP 877.6.  The Rose
Defendants request an order that any pending and future claims for equitable
contribution, or total, partial, and comparative indemnity against the Rose
Defendants based on comparative negligence or comparative fault be dismissed
and forever barred pursuant to CCP 877.6(a)(1) and CRC 3.1202, et seq.  

 
RULING: The motion is denied without
prejudice.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an attack on Plaintiff Raul
Cabrera (Plaintiff) on or about 10/5/20 while inside a store located at 10402
Laurel Canyon Boulevard, Pacoima, California 91331, more commonly referred to
as La Placita Market (the Premises). 
(Complaint ¶1).  On 2/11/21, Plaintiff
filed this action against Defendants Henry and Sara Rose, LLC and Rose Brothers
Enterprises (the Rose Defendants) as property owners of the Premises, and
against GMCND, Inc., and Sharmeen’s Enterprises, Inc., as lessors and/or
sublessors of the Premises for negligence and premises liability.  (Complaint ¶¶3-5; Amendment to Complaint
filed 5/5/21).  
 
The motion claims that the Rose Defendants and Samuel F.
Rose Properties, LLC deny all liability with respect to Plaintiff’s claims; however,
to avoid the uncertainty of trial and the costs of further litigation, without
admitting liability, on or about 6/29/23, the Rose Defendants reached a
settlement with Plaintiff whereby they and/or their insurer will pay  $150,000.00 as full and final consideration
for: (1) a release of any and all claims against the Rose Defendants or Samuel
F. Rose Properties, LLC related to this action; and (2) a dismissal of the Rose
Defendants and Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC, with prejudice, from Plaintiff’s
(the Settlement).  (See Motion,
p.3:2-23, p.4:2-7).  
 
On 8/22/23, the Rose Defendants filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order determining that the settlement entered into
between the Rose Defendants, Plaintiff and Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC was
made in good faith pursuant to CCP 877 and CCP 877.6.  The Rose Defendants request an order that any
pending and future claims for equitable contribution, or total, partial, and
comparative indemnity against the Rose Defendants based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault be dismissed and forever barred pursuant to CCP
877.6(a)(1) and CRC 3.1202, et seq. 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant GMCND, Inc. dba La Placita Market has
opposed the motion and the Rose Defendants have filed a reply to the
opposition.  The motion was originally scheduled
for hearing on 9/18/23 when this action was pending in Department 31 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  On 9/14/23,
this action was transferred to Department F47 of the Chatsworth Courthouse and
on 9/27/23 a notice regarding the new 10/25/23 hearing date for the motion was
filed and served.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 877.6 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“(a)(1) Any party to an action in
which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the
manner provided in subdivision
(b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may shorten
the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of the
issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or before
the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has commenced.
 
. .
.
 
(b) The issue of the good faith of
a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.
 
(c) A determination by the court
that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor
or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
 
(d) The party asserting the lack of
good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.
 
. .
.”
 
 
 
In determining whether a settlement was entered in good
faith pursuant to CCP 877.6, the Court must consider the following factors: (1)
a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, (2) the amount paid in settlement, (3) the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, (4) a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial, (5)
the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of non-settling defendants.  See
Tech-Bilt, Inc. (1985) 38 C3d 488, 499-500.  The evaluation of whether the settlement is
in good faith must be made on the basis of the information available at the
time of settlement.  Id. at
499.  
 
The amount a plaintiff claims in damages is not
determinative in finding whether a settlement was entered in good faith.  Cahill (2011) 194 CA4th 939, 964.  Instead, the court must make a rough
approximation of what the plaintiff would actually recover.  Id.
 
Here, the $150,000.00 settlement resulted after
arms-length negotiations between counsel for the Rose Defendants and counsel
for Plaintiff.  (Lawrence Decl. ¶¶4,
21-24).     
 
“A plaintiff seeking to establish that a property owner’s
failure to provide security is the cause of a criminal assault by a third party
must show [by a preponderance of the evidence] the security would have
prevented the assault.”  Saelzler (2001)
25 C4th 763, 782.
 
The Rose Defendants argue that Plaintiff was the victim
of a random, unprovoked attack by an unknown assailant on the Premises.  Further, the Rose Defendants contend that the
attack was unforeseeable as there was no indication the attack was about to
occur, it was over instantaneously, and there was nothing anyone could have
done to stop it.  (See Lawrence
Decl. ¶5).  
 
Further, the Rose Defendants argue that they leased the
Premises to Houshang Eddy Maghen & Ezatolah Nazarian (Lessee) on 12/6/98
for a term of 25 years (Master Lease).  (Lawrence
Decl. 
¶6).  The Rose
Defendants contend that under Section 41 of the Master Lease, the Lessee
assumed “all responsibility for the protection of the Premises, Lessee, its
agents and invitees and their property from the acts of third parties,” and
acknowledged that Lessor had “no obligation whatsoever to provide . . . guard
service or other security measures.”  (Lawrence Decl. ¶7).  The Rose Defendants further contend that Section
8.7 of the Master Lease requires the Lessee to “indemnify, protect, defend and
hold harmless the Lessor from all claims, damages, judgments, etc., arising out
of any act, omission or neglect of Lessee, its agents, contractors, employees,
or invitees.”  (Lawrence Decl. ¶8).  The Rose Defendants argue that the Master
Lease required the Lessee to obtain and keep in force Commercial General
Liability Insurance protecting Lessor as an additional insured against claims
for bodily injury or personal injury.  (Lawrence
Decl. ¶10).
 
The Rose Defendants go on to claim that on or about
1/25/05, Maghen and Nazarian assigned the Master Lease to Shoukat Hussain Ali,
with the consent of the Rose Defendants (Assignment). The Rose Defendants
contend the Assignment of the Lease did not release Houshang Eddy Maghen &
Ezatolah Nazarian from their legal duties and obligations agreed to in the
Master Lease, and all assignees or sublessees are deemed to have assumed and
agreed to conform and comply with each and every term, covenant, condition, and
obligation of the Master Lease.  (Lawrence
Decl. ¶11).  The Rose Defendants contend
that under the Assignment, Ali assumed all terms, covenants, conditions, and
obligations under the Original Lease.  (Lawrence
Decl. ¶12).
 
The Rose Defendants contend that they and Ali entered
into a Renewal of Lease (the Renewal), incorporating all terms of the Master
Lease, extending the term until December 5, 2024. (Lawrence Decl. ¶13).  They contend the Renewal also allowed Ali to
transfer all or a portion of his interests in the Original Lease and Renewal to
the corporation he intended to form.  Under the Renewal, the Rose Defendants contend
that the parties agreed that “the transfer of all or a portion of [Ali’s]
interest to the corporation shall not release Ali or the Corporation of any
obligation of [Ali] under the Lease.”  (Lawrence
Decl. ¶14).  The motion claims that the Renewal
provided further that the terms of the Master Lease “shall remain in full force
and effect [and] Subject to the provisions of the Master Lease as to
assignment, the agreements, conditions and provisions [in the Renewal] shall
apply to and bind the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns
of the parties hereto.”  (Lawrence Decl.
¶15).  The Rose Defendants claim that Ali
formed the corporation Sharmeen’s Enterprises, Inc. on or about 8/4/95.  (Lawrence Decl. ¶16).
 
The motion claims that on 8/20/15, Ali entered into an
agreement to sublease approximately 1,000 square feet of the Property (the Meat
Market) to Roberto Rodriguez and GMCND, Inc., on a month-to-month basis, beginning
9/1/15 (the Sublease).  (Lawrence Decl.
¶17).  The Rose Defendants contend that under
the terms of the Sublease, it is “subject and subordinate to the Master Lease
(Original Lease).”  (Lawrence Decl. ¶18).  The Rose Defendants contend that the parties
to the Sublease agreed that “the terms, conditions, and respective obligations
of the Sublessor and Sublessee to each other . . . shall be the terms and
conditions of the Master Lease except for those provision of the Master Lease
which are directly contradicted by [the] Sublease ...”  (Lawrence Decl. ¶19).  The motion contends that on 9/15/15, Ali
assigned all right, title, and interest in the Sublease to his corporation,
Sharmeen’s Enterprises, Inc.  (Lawrence
Decl. ¶20).  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Rose Defendants argue that it
cannot be determined that the proposed settlement is “grossly disproportionate”
or “so far out of the ballpark” of what a reasonable person would estimate the
Rose Defendants’ potential liability to be at trial, if any.   
 
Based on the motion, Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC’s
relationship to the action/the Premises is not clear.  The notice of motion refers to “Defendants,
Henry and Sara Rose, LLC; and Rose Brothers Enterprises” as “collectively, the
‘Rose Defendants’” and separately refers to “Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC” as
one of the settling parties.  (See
Motion, p.1:24-27).  While the motion
indicates that Plaintiff filed the action against “the Rose Defendants as
property owners of the Premises,” the motion does not set forth Samuel F. Rose
Properties, LLC’s relationship to the Premises. 
Similarly, the motion is not clear as to which parties will benefit from
the good faith determination of the proposed settlement.  
 
The notice of motion requests that any pending and future
claims for equitable contribution, or total, partial, and comparative indemnity
against the Rose Defendants, without mentioning Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC,
based on comparative negligence or comparative fault be dismissed and forever
barred pursuant to CCP 877.6(a)(1) and CRC 3.1202, et seq.  (See Motion, p.2:1-4).  The body of the motion indicates that a
dismissal of the Rose Defendants and Samuel F. Properties, LLC, with prejudice,
from Plaintiff’s complaint is requested.  (Motion, p.4:6-7).  However, Samuel F. Properties, LLC does not
appear to have been named as a defendant in Plaintiff’s complaint.  Additionally, the motion contends that the
proposed settlement is reasonable considering the potential liability of “the
Rose Defendants” but does not mention the potential liability of Samuel F. Rose
Properties, LLC.  (See Motion, p.6:6-8).  The motion also does not include a copy of
the proposed Settlement.    
 
The motion also fails because it is not supported by
sufficient evidence.  The only evidence
offered in support of the motion is the declaration of the Rose Defendants’
attorney, Christopher L. Lawrence. 
Attorney Lawrence provides no basis for his conclusion that: 
 
“Plaintiff was the victim of a
random, unprovoked attack by an unknown assailant, at the Premises. There was
no indication the attack was about to occur, it was over almost
instantaneously, and there was nothing anyone could have done to stop it. In
other words, the attack was unforeseeable.” 

 
(Lawrence Decl. ¶5).
 
Attorney Lawrence also makes claims regarding the
contents of several documents (i.e., the Master Lease, the Assignment, the
Renewal, the Sublease) which the motion relies on for much of the argument that
the Rose Defendants and, presumably, Samuel F. Rose Properties, LLC, are not
liable to Plaintiff and, therefore, the settlement is reasonable.  (See Lawrence Decl. ¶¶6-20).  However, copies of such document are not
provided to support the arguments made in the motion and claims in the
declaration.  See Evidence Code
1520.       
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.  