  Case Number:  23AHCV01054    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ZHI FEI CHENG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CANG
   HOANG NGUYEN,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01054
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF COMPROMISE OF A PERSON WITH A
   DISABILITY AND SPECIAL NEEDS TRUST
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   20, 2024



 
Claimant Zhi Fei
 Cheng (“Claimant”), a person with a disability, by and through their
Guardian Ad Litem, Naiwei Hsu (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their
claims against Defendant Canh Hoang Nguyen. Court approval is
required for all settlements of claims by a person with a disability. (Probate
Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of
Civ. Proc. § 372.) The Court finds the settlement amount to be fair and
reasonable. Further, the requested attorney’s fees, which amounts to
approximately 27% of the total settlement amount, is fair and reasonable.

In a previous
minute order, the Court made the following findings as required by Probate Code
section 3604(b), that: (1) Claimant has a disability which substantially
impairs the individual’s ability to provide for his own care or custody and
constitutes a substantial handicap; (2) Claimant is likely to have special
needs that will not be met without the trust; and (3) the money to be paid to
the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet Claimant’s
special needs. The Court also previously found that the proposed trust instrument meets the
requirements set forth in California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and
LASC rule 4.116(b) and is ready for approval for creation and/or funding. 
The Court ordered Petitioner to submit
a revised proposed order, which was filed on October 16, 2024. Accordingly, the
petition is GRANTED and the Court orders Petitioner to
open a separate proceeding for the Trust by filing a certified copy of the
settlement order establishing the Trust with the Probate court. (LASC Rule
4115(e)(1).) Petitioner will be ordered to submit a Notice of Commencement of
Proceedings of Court Created Trust on LASC Form PRO 044 and the Court sets an
OSC re: filing of bond and a Notice of Commencement of Trust Action for January
20, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. If proof of
bond and commencement of a separate Probate action are submitted prior to the
OSC, no appearance will be required. A first accounting shall take place on
January 20, 2026. 
Per
California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at
the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance.  The Court will not require Claimant or
Petitioner’s appearance but will require Petitioner’s counsel to appear.

Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 20th
day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.