  Case Number:  23STCV20669    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  26 8/02/2024 
Dept. 26
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
KITCHENS v. THE HERTZ CORPORATION, et
al. (23STCV20669)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Heather Conniff (Shegerian
Conniff LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Allison Scott, Sarah George (Husch Blackwell LLP)
 
DEFENDANTS’ PRO HAC VICE APPLICATION (filed 07/09/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ Pro Hac Vice Application is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff Alexus Kitchens
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants The Hertz Corporation and
Wayne (Last Name Unknown) alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Discrimination on the basis of sex/gender in violation of
FEHA;
2.     
Sexual Harassment in violation of FEHA; 
3.     
Retaliation for complaining of discrimination and/or
harassment on the basis of sex/gender in violation of FEHA;
4.     
Failure to Prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation in violation of FEHA;
5.     
Negligent hiring, supervision and retention; 
6.     
Violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5;
7.     
Wrongful Termination in violation of public policy; and
8.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On
April 20, 2022, Plaintiff began her employment with Defendant Hertz. Plaintiff
was hired as an Instant Return Clerk/Flex staff member. Plaintiff alleges her
supervisor, Defendant Wayne, sexually harassed during her employment. Plaintiff
further alleges that after complaining about the harassment she was retaliated
against and wrongfully terminated.
 
On July
9, 2024, Defendants filed the instant application for Hillary Klein to appear
as counsel pro hac vice on behalf of Defendants. On July 8, 2024,
Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition stating that Plaintiff had
indicated she does not oppose the application. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
CRC Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of
admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good
standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant
attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if
any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California
State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (CRC Rule
9.40(d).) 
 
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides as follows, “[a]n applicant for
permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule must pay a
reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with the copy
of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the State Bar.” 
 
Defendants’ application on behalf of Hillary Klein provides
the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d).  The
declarations supplied sufficient information to satisfy the requirements. (Klein
Decl., ¶¶ 1-12; Scott Decl., ¶¶ 1-6.)  Defendants submitted proof that the $50.00 fee
was paid to the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Scott
Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Defendants
submitted proof of service on the State Bar of California via its online
portal.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1); Scott Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. A.) Defendants’ application
satisfies rule 9.40. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
unopposed motion for an order admitting Hillary Klein to appear pro hac vice is
GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendants’ Pro Hac Vice Application is GRANTED.