  Case Number:  20STCV15480    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Enforce Court’s January 21, 2024 OrderMoving Party: Defendant AEG Management LACCResponding Party: Christina GutierrezTentative Ruling:  GrantedSTATEMENT OF CASEThis is a premises liability case in which Plaintiff Christina Gutierrez (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendant City of Los Angeles and Does 1 to 50, including Defendant AEG Management LACC, LLC (“Defendant” or “AEG”) for premises liability and personal injury. Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 22, 2022, alleging negligence, willful failure to warn, and dangerous condition of public property against Defendant. Plaintiff prayed for relief for wage loss, general damages, hospital and medical expenses, and loss of earning capacity. On January 31, 2024, the Court ordered Plaintiff to provide code-compliant responses within 20 days of its Order and provided that “interrogatory responses are to be served without objections and without the option to produce writing under CCP 2030.290(a).” Furthermore, the Court instructed Plaintiff to substantially answer all sub-sections. On March 7, 2024, Defendant AEG filed the instant motion, requesting the Court enforce the January 31, 2024, Order, instructing Plaintiff to serve compliant responses to Interrogatories, Set One, because Plaintiff had still yet to do so. Furthermore, Defendant requested terminating and monetary sanctions. On April 5, 2024, Defendant AEG filed a Notice of Non-Receipt of Plaintiff’s Opposition.On April 17, 2024, the Court, on its own motion, continued the Hearing on the instant Motion from April 17, 2024 to June 6, 2024. In addition, the Court ordered Supplemental briefing to be filed and served ten calendar days prior to the instant hearing, along with the Response to be filed six days prior, and the Reply three days prior. On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed its Supplemental Briefing, along with the Declaration of Defendant’s counsel of record, Virginia E. Lopez and a Separate Statement. Defendant requested the Court grant either evidentiary sanctions or in the alternative, monetary sanctions. On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Response, entitled “Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief in Support of Opposition to Defendant AEG’s Motion to Enforce.”On June 3, 2024, Defendant filed its Reply, along with another declaration by Counsel Lopez. Defendant moved the Court for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff, in the form of striking Plaintiff's Complaint and dismissing her case in its entirety. Defendant's motion was made on the grounds Plaintiff has disobeyed a valid Court Order. Thus, Defendant moved the Court to strike Plaintiff's Complaint in its entirety pursuant to CCP §§128(a)(4), 2023.010(g), 2023.030(d)(3), and 2023.030(d)(1). Defendant asserted this was the third motion to enforce a valid Court Order against Plaintiff; a significant factor, which Defendant asked the Court consider in deciding whether to impose terminating sanctions against Plaintiff. Plaintiff had a history of disobeying the Court's orders and has demonstrated a disinterest in obeying this Court's orders, prosecuting her case, and/or submitting to the discovery process. Lastly, Defendant requested the Court award monetary sanctions against Plaintiff, and her attorney of record, in an amount sufficient to punish Plaintiff, or in the amount of at least $722.50 for attorney time and costs incurred in bringing this motion. In Defendant’s Supplemental Brief, Defendant AEG requests an Order in the form of evidentiary sanctions to preclude Plaintiff' from introducing any evidence that she will need or has been advised of the need for future treatment, including surgery to her neck and back. The request for evidentiary sanctions is related, connected, and arises from the fact that Plaintiff continues to disobey the Court's Order by failing to substantially answer Form Interrogatory 6.7 which concerns future medical treatment. Additionally, Plaintiff fails to answer all subparts. Furthermore, AEG”s Separate Statement provides the language of the interrogatory at issue, the response, a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further response (in this case AEG seeks an order for evidentiary sanctions), and a summary of other relevant documents upon which AEG may rely. CRC 3.1345(a)-(d). As such and in addition to Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions, Defendant now requests evidentiary sanctions against Plaintiff to preclude Plaintiff from introducing, referring to, or mentioning any evidence at trial that she will need and has been advised she will need future treatment, including surgery, to her neck and back. Plaintiff argues that on March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed code compliant verified Responses to all outstanding discovery on March 22, 2024, and that despite Defendant now being in receipt of such requested discovery responses, Defendant declined to take the Hearing for the instant Motion off calendar. Counsel further argues that Plaintiff’s responses were untimely because at the relevant time, Plaintiff was not communicating with her Counsel due to her persistent medical complications, rendering her physically unable to assist in finalizing her discovery responses. Additionally, Plaintiff was physically hospitalized for over a week during this period of incapacitation. Thus, Plaintiff was unavailable for a justifiable reason and should therefore not be punished. Moreover, Plaintiff’s Counsel was attempting to resolve the matter, knowing that the lack of communication with the client was not usual. Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s request to exclude evidence of future medical treatment regarding Plaintiff’s neck and back treatment seems overboard, abusive, punitive, and unjust because nowhere in the January 31, 2024, Order does the Court discuss interrogatory 6.7 in any manner. Similarly, Defendant did not bring up any concerns regarding 6.7 being evasive or incomplete. Lastly, Defendant has not been prejudiced because Plaintiff has previously responded to two independent sets of discovery requests propounded by the other two co- defendants in this litigation, all represented by the same defense counsel. Thus, Defendant is propounding excessive discovery and utilizing its position of representing three separate Defendants to engage in duplicative and abusive discovery. Plaintiff's arguments are inapposite. The January 31, 2024, Order (which is the subject of the instant motion) expressly states, “Plaintiff must serve code compliant responses within 20 days . . . and must substantially answer all subsections.” Thus, the purpose of the Court continuing the instant motion hearing was for the purpose of determining sanctions. The issue is whether monetary sanctions or evidentiary exclusion sanctions should be ordered. The fact that AEG's counsel also represents the other defendants in this case does not excuse Plaintiff from answering discovery propounded by AEG in this case. Plaintiff decided after almost three years to sue AEG as a new defendant. Thus, AEG is entitled and has a right to complete its own discovery. Second, the argument that AEG "already has the responses" is disingenuous because when represented by its prior counsel, Los Angeles City received the same evasive nonresponsive responses to its form interrogatories. The fact Plaintiff refuses to pay monetary sanctions on at least two prior occasions reinforces the argument that the only sanctions the Court should order are evidentiary sanctions. Fourth, although Plaintiff states she summarized the future medical care with the information her medical providers noted in their medical records, this is precisely what the January 31, 2024, Court order said not to do: the Court ordered Plaintiff to serve interrogatory responses “without the option to produce writings under CCP 2030.290(a).” Moreover, it said Plaintiff must substantially answer all sub-sections. Finally, Opposing Counsel’s argument that he was unable to communicate with Plaintiff due to her medical issues is made without providing any competent evidence legitimizing Plaintiff’s medical status and Plaintiff has repeatedly made this argument on previous occasions related to discovery. APPLICABLE LAWCCP section 2023.030 provides that, "[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method..., the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose... [monetary, evidence, and terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process...." CCP section 2023.010 provides that "[m]issues of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:... (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.... (g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery...." "The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse 'after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.'" (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390 (quoting Lang v. Hachman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246).) "Generally, '[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.'" (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 (citation omitted).) "Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders." (Id. (citing Lang, supra, 77 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244- 1246); see, e.g., Collisson X Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 (terminating sanctions imposed after defendants failed to comply with one court order to produce discovery); Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal App 3d 481, 491 (disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCucchen (1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4) (terminating sanctions imposed against plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various discovery statutes).) “The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Section 2023.030 subd. (c).) The court may also impose an issue sanction ordering that the designated facts shall be established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process." (Code of Civil Procedure Section 2023.030 subd. (b).) DISCUSSIONOn January 31, 2024, this Court, after having heard argument of counsel, made the following ruling: Defendant AEG Management LACC, LLC's Motion to Compel Responses from Plaintiff Christina Gutierrez to Interrogatories, Sets One; and Request for Sanctions filed by AEG Management LACC, LLC on 10/25/23 is Granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide code- compliant responses within 20 days of this order. Interrogatory responses are to be served without objections and without the option to produce writings under CCP 2030.290(a) and must substantially answer all sub-sections. Defendant AEG Management LACC, LLC's Motion to Compel Responses from Plaintiff Christina Gutierrez to Request for Production of Documents, Set One; and Request for Sanctions filed by AEG Management LACC, LLC on 10/25/23 is Denied as Moot. Defendant's request for sanctions is Denied. Defendant is ordered to give notice.Defendant argues that although, Plaintiff served verifications to her further amended responses on March 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s responses to AEG's Form Interrogatory No. 6.7 failed to substantially answer the 6.7 sub-sections; were incomplete, and were still evasive. Form Interrogatory No. 6.7, approved by the Judicial Council, asks for relevant information: “Has Any HEALTH CARE PROVIDER advised that you may require future or additional treatment for any injuries that you attributed to the INCIDENT? If so, for each injury state: (a) the name and ADDRESS of each HEALTH CARE PROVIDER; (b) the complaints for which the treatment was advised;(c) and the nature, duration, and estimated cost of the treatment.” (See Separate Statement filed concurrently hereto; Lopez Dec 3) Plaintiff responded: RESPONSE TO FORM INTERROGATORY NO. 6.7:Yes, including, re-surgery of her left knee, total knee replacement for her right knee, and surgeries to her neck and back. Discovery and investigation are ongoing. Responding party reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response.(See Separate Statement filed concurrently hereto; Lopez Dec para 19, 20). Defendant argues that an evidence preclusion sanction simply prohibits Plaintiff from producing at trial the evidence that she repeatedly refused to produce in discovery. (Def. Supp. Brief, pg. 8.)  "[T]he discovery process is designed to make a trial less of a game of blindman's bluff and more of a fair contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable extent." (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389 (disapproved on other grounds by Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204).) “Absent extenuating circumstances... the appropriate sanction when a party repeatedly and willfully fails to provide certain evidence to the opposing party as required by the discovery rules is preclusion of that evidence from trial—even if such a sanction proves determinative in terminating plaintiff's case.” (Id. at 390.) Thus, Defendant contends there is a reasonable nexus between the evidentiary sanction, i.e. to exclude evidence of any future treatment to the neck and back, and the interrogatory question Plaintiff refuses to answer as ordered by the Court. (Def. Supp. Brief, pg. 8.) Moreover, it has been evident throughout this litigation’s history that monetary sanctions directed to Plaintiff do not have the desired effect in making Plaintiff comply with discovery requests. (Lopez Dec, para 35) Defendants have obtained at least two separate prior monetary sanctions orders against Plaintiff which Plaintiff has not paid despite being ordered to do so. (Def. Supp. Brief pg. 9.)Although the Court acknowledges Plaintiff’s medical status, the Court agrees that Plaintiff’s Counsel has not provided documentation legitimizing Plaintiff’s inability to communicate during the relevant time. Although Plaintiff claims Defendant is propounding excessive discovery, Plaintiff has not provided evidence of this and even if Plaintiff had provided evidence of discovery responses in other cases, the Court finds only this case before it. As Plaintiff is the party bringing suit, Plaintiff finds herself in Court by her own intents and purposes. Thus, Plaintiff is subject to the rules of procedure and must fairly engage in the discovery process if she wishes to avail herself to the process and administration of justice.The Court was clear in setting forth in the January 31, 2024 Order that Plaintiff was to provide Interrogatory responses without objections and without the option to produce writings under CCP 2030.290(a). The Order was also clear in providing that Plaintiff must substantially answer all sub-sections. As Plaintiff failed to timely abide by the Court’s orders, the Court finds evidentiary sanctions appropriate in this circumstance.Given Plaintiff did not comply with the January 31, 2024 Court Order, it is now appropriate to preclude Plaintiff from introducing, referring to, or mentioning any evidence at trial that she will either: (a) need; or (b) has been advised she will need future treatment, including surgery, to her neck and back. This preclusion shall serve to exclude any treatment obtained or incurred as of the date of the Order for the instant motion. In light of awarding evidentiary sanctions, the Court will forego awarding monetary sanctions at this time and hereby orders and enforces the January 31, 2024 Order, as well as all other Court Orders, past and future.CONCLUSIONThe Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Enforce the January 31, 2024, Court order and hereby awards the foregoing evidentiary sanctions. Moving party to give notice.