  Case Number:  20STCV32454    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT         207
HEARING DATE      November 15,
2023
CASE NUMBER       20STCV32454
MOTIONS                  Motions
to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment, or in the alternative for New Trial
MOVING PARTIES  Defendants
Eleuterio Bernardo del Rosario and Zerlyn Fonseca del Rosario
OPPOSING PARTY  Plaintiff M.O.,
a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, J.O.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 26, 2023, the Court issued
a Minute Order granting Plaintiff M.O.’s (“Plaintiff”) motion for terminating
sanctions, striking the answer of, and entering defaults against, Defendants
Eleuterio Bernardo Del Rosario and Zerlyn Fonseca Del Rosario (collectively, “Defendants”).  (See July 26, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
On October 10, 2023, the Court entered default judgment in the amount
of $1,045,564.46, representing $44,466.46 in special damages; $1,000,000 in
general damages; and $1,098 in costs.
 
Defendants have each filed identical motions to set aside/vacate the
judgment, or in the alternative, for new trial. 
Plaintiff has filed oppositions and Defendants have filed replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 663
provides:
 
A judgment or decree, when based upon a decision
by the court, or the special verdict of a jury, may, upon motion of the party
aggrieved, be set aside and vacated by the same court, and another and
different judgment entered, for either of the following causes, materially
affecting the substantial rights of the party and entitling the party to a
different judgment:
 
1. Incorrect or erroneous legal basis for the
decision, not consistent with or not supported by the facts; and in such case
when the judgment is set aside, the statement of decision shall be amended and
corrected.
 
2. A judgment or decree not consistent with or
not supported by the special verdict.
 
            Similarly,
Code of Civil Procedure section 657 provides:
 
The verdict may be vacated and any other decision
may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further trial
granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party:
 
1.      Irregularity
in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial.
 
2.      Misconduct
of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to
assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question
submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance,
such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors
 
3.      Accident
or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
 
4.      Newly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.
 
5.      Excessive
or inadequate damages.
 
6.      Insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or
other decision is against law.
 
7.      Error
in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 658 provides: “When the application is
made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions
of Section 657, it must be made upon affidavits; otherwise it must be made on
the minutes of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 658.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Defendants argue the default
judgment should be set aside/vacated or in the alternative, Defendants seek a
new trial because (1) the complaint does not establish DOES 3 and 4 are the
parents of DOE 1 or DOE 1 is a minor; (2) the declarations do not support the
requested damages; and (3) Civil Code Section 1714.1 limits damages to $25,000.
 
            Plaintiff counters that (1) the
complaint plausibly alleges that DOES 3 and 4 are the parents of DOE 1, who is
a minor; (2) the complaint also alleges DOES 3 and 4 are vicariously liable for
the conduct of DOE 1, which was admitted as part of the default; (3) Plaintiff’s
damages are appropriate under common law vicarious liability; (4) the statutory
damages limit imposed by section 1714.1(a) is in addition to other liability
imposed by law, such as common law vicarious liability; (5) statutory damages
limits are an affirmative defense, which Defendants waived in connection with
the default; and (6) even if section 1714.1 were to limit the damages at issue
here, the limit is $47,100 as of July 1, 2021, not $25,000.
 
            Defendants reply that (1) the
allegations are not sufficiently “well pleaded” to support default liability; (2)
Plaintiff’s case law demonstrating that the statutory damages cap is an
affirmative defense subject to waiver is distinguishable, and statutory damages
caps are “applicable as a matter of law based on the broad control retained by
the Legislature over the measure and timing of damages that a defendant is
obligated to pay.”  
 
            Well-Pleaded Allegations
 
            In the operative complaint,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
·        
9. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was a
student at SAS, aged 13. At all times relevant, during the times Plaintiff was
on SAS’s premises and in SAS’s custody, SAS had a duty to protect Plaintiff and
prevent harm to Plaintiff, including harm from other students. 
 
·        
10. On or about February 24, 2020, Plaintiff was
attending a class at SAS, which was taught and supervised by Defendant Chin.
Defendant Chin, as the teacher of the class, was tasked with supervising the
students and as part of that supervising role, had a duty to protect students
from harm, including harm from other students. 
 
·        
11. At approximately 2:25 p.m., Plaintiff and
other students got up out of their seats to turn in homework. This was
Plaintiff’s first year at SAS. 
 
·        
12. Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, and prior to
returning to his seat, another student, DOE 1, had strategically placed a pen
on Plaintiff’s seat. When Plaintiff sat down in the seat the pen penetrated
Plaintiff’s bottom, causing severe pain. Plaintiff informed Defendant Chin
about what happened and his belief that the object was inside of him and
Defendant Chin refused to allow Plaintiff to go to the bathroom to check if the
pen had in fact penetrated his tissue. 
 
·        
13. When Plaintiff checked and further informed
Defendant Chin that he believed that the object is in fact inside of him,
Defendant Chin and the other students in Plaintiff’s class began laughing at
Plaintiff. This further humiliated Plaintiff while he was suffering
excruciating pain from the penetration by the object. In lieu of providing or
summoning immediate medical assistance, Defendant Chin instructed Plaintiff to
go to the bathroom to check that the object was inside of him. When Plaintiff
was walking to the bathroom, he had to limp because of the severe pain from the
object. When Defendant Chin observed Plaintiff limping on his way out of class
to the bathroom, Defendant Chin said: “Stop being over dramatic!” 
 
·        
14. Plaintiff made his way to the bathroom and
again confirmed that the object was inside of him and reported this fact to
Defendant Chin. Despite repeatedly confirming that a sharp object had
penetrated his body, and again, in lieu of summoning or providing immediate
medical assistance, Defendant Chin then summoned another teacher to come into
the class to inspect Plaintiff’s bottom and confirm that the object had
penetrated Plaintiff, further delaying medical attention to Plaintiff and
further humiliating Plaintiff. 
 
·        
15. Eventually, Plaintiff was able to get to the
nurse’s office and Plaintiff was referred out for emergency surgery to remove
the object.
 
(Complaint.
¶¶ 9-15.)  As to Defendants (who are
named as DOES 3 and 4), Plaintiff further alleges:
 
·        
34. The parents of DOE 1, DOES 3 and 4, are
liable for the misconduct of DOE 1.
 
·        
44. DOES 3 through 6, the parents of DOES 1 and
2, are liable for the conduct of DOES 1 and 2.
 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 34, 44.)  
            The incident is therefore alleged to
have occurred in Plaintiff’s classroom, during class, creating a reasonable
inference that DOE 1 is another student in Defendant Chin’s class, along with
the 13-year-old Plaintiff.  Therefore,
the reasonable inference is that DOE 1 is also a minor.  Moreover, the Complaint directly alleges that
DOES 3 and 4 are parents of DOE 1, and as DOE 1’s parents, Defendants are
vicariously liable for DOE 1’s misconduct.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 28-46.)
 
Therefore, the Complaint contains sufficient well-pleaded allegations
to support liability as to Defendants, which was established in connection with
the Default.
 
Amount of Damages
 
Civil Code, section 1714.1 provides:
 
(a) Any act of willful misconduct of a minor that results in injury or
death to another person or in any injury to the property of another shall be
imputed to the parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor for
all purposes of civil damages, and the parent or guardian having custody and
control shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor for any damages
resulting from the willful misconduct.
 
Subject to the provisions of subdivision (c), the joint and several
liability of the parent or guardian having custody and control of a minor under
this subdivision shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for
each tort of the minor, and in the case of injury to a person, imputed
liability shall be further limited to medical, dental and hospital expenses
incurred by the injured person, not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000). The liability imposed by this section is in addition to any
liability now imposed by law.
 
[…]
 
(c) The amounts listed in subdivisions (a) and (b) shall be adjusted
every two years by the Judicial Council to reflect any increases in the cost of
living in California, as indicated by the annual average of the California
Consumer Price Index. The Judicial Council shall round this adjusted amount up
or down to the nearest hundred dollars. On or before July 1 of each
odd-numbered year, the Judicial Council shall compute and publish the amounts
listed in subdivisions (a) and (b), as adjusted according to this subdivision.
 
The Complaint does not specify that it seeks to hold Defendants
vicariously liable by way of Section 1714.1, as opposed to by way of common law
vicarious liability.  As such, the
statutory limits of Section 1714.1 do not apply.  
 
However, upon further review, although not raised by the parties, the
Court notes that the Declaration of J.O., Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem, is not
signed under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5.  Therefore, Plaintiff has not produced any
admissible evidence substantiating the requested $44,466.46 in special
damages.  
 
Conclusion
 
            The Court therefore grants
Defendants’ motions to set aside/vacate the judgment pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 663, and orders the Judgment entered on October 10, 2023 set
aside.  As such, the Court sets an Order
to Show Cause re Entry of Default Judgment on December 18, 2023 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.
 
            The
Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
 
DATED: November 15, 2023                                                 ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court