 Case Number:  BC691050    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     8 Date:           5/3/2024   Case No: BC 691050    Case Name: Steger v. CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, at al.  MOTION TO CLARIFY STAYMOTION TO STRIKE/TAX COSTSMoving Party:             Plaintiff Jason Steger      Responding Party: Defendant Olympus America, Inc. Defendants John Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D.     RELIEF REQUESTED:Motion to Clarify  Clarify a stay pending appeal In the alternative, clarify that not paying discovery sanctions will not constitute willful acts of disobedience and will proceed by normal post-judgment activities. Motion to Tax/Strike Costs Strike, tax or disallow costs sought by defendant Olympus America, Inc. and defendants James Kasher/John Kao FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:On January 22, 2018, plaintiff Jason Steger filed this action, alleging that in October of 2016, plaintiff was admitted to defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center with abdominal pain, and that defendants, various medical providers, negligently performed a colonoscopy procedure on plaintiff which perforated his colon in multiple areas.  Plaintiff alleges that after the procedure, his pain worsened, and he went into septic shock.  Plaintiff alleges that he ultimately underwent a total colectomy with ileostomy and other procedures, and his entire colon was removed.  On September 6, 2019, the court heard a motion for summary judgment brought by defendant Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, which was granted on the ground that in opposition to the motion, plaintiff had failed to submit expert medical testimony to raise a triable issue of material fact.  The court denied a motion for new trial on October 25, 2019, and on January 17, 2020, heard a motion for relief under CCP § 473 (b), which was denied. The file shows that on February 4, 2020 plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal, giving notice plaintiff was appealing the court’s orders of September 6, 2019, October 25, 2019, and January 17, 2020.  The trial court’s orders were ultimately affirmed on appeal. On July 6, 2020, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting defendant Olympus America, Inc. as the true name of the defendant designated in the complaint as Doe 1.    The operative complaint alleges that  defendant Olympus America sells, markets and services medical products, including endoscopes such as the specific endoscopes involved in the subject incident, that the endoscopes were defective, that the Olympus defendants performed inadequate evaluation and testing of the scopes, including failing to properly determine the scope’s reprocessing protocol adequately disinfected the device for safe subsequent use in multiple endoscopic patients, and fraudulently marketed the scopes, as a result of which plaintiff suffered injuries.  On October 4, 2022, the court entered an Order Clarifying Five-Year Deadline, stating:“Based on the statement filed by Olympus on September 23, 2022, and the Ex Parte Application FOR ORDER To Continue Motion for Summary Judgment, Trial, and to Determine and Clarify Five-Year Deadline Pursuant to CCP section 583.340 Does Not Expire Until July 21, 2023 brought by Plaintiff, heard on September 12, 2022, the Court hereby Orders and clarifies that the last date to bring this Case to trial pursuant to the five-year rule of CCP section 583.340, is July 22, 2023.  This Order is without prejudice to the Plaintiff’s right to seek extensions of the five-year period, and Defendants’ right to oppose any such request.” [Order, filed 10/04/2022, p. 2].   On July 13, 2023, the matter was called for hearing for a Second Final Status Conference.  Plaintiff submitted a joint witness list showing a trial estimate of 104 hours which qualified the case for long cause.  This filing was the first time the court received a trial estimate in excess of 100 hours.  Defense counsel did not agree to this trial estimate, claiming it overstated the total trial hours.  The court ordered counsel to jointly submit a Long-Cause Package to Department 1 by 07/24/2023, and found, over defense counsel’s objection, that it was impossible, impracticable, and futile to bring the case to trial by the expiration of the five-year rule and ordered the 5-year statute extended to 09/15/2023.  [Minute Order, 07/13/2023, p. 1 of 2].  On September 15, 2023, the court heard two motions to compel the further deposition of plaintiff’s expert Tawhid Gazi, M.D. and for sanctions, one filed by defendant Olympus America Inc., and one filed by defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D.   The motions were granted, and plaintiff was ordered to produce for further deposition the deponent Tahwid Gazi, M.D., who was ordered to appear and give up to seven hours of testimony by no later than September 29, 2023.  The deponent was also ordered to give complete answers to designated questions, without objection, on resumption of the deposition.  Plaintiff was also ordered to permit further questioning of the deponent without interposing improper objections, improperly instructing the witness not to answer, or leading or coaching the witness. Monetary sanctions were awarded in favor of defendant Olympus and against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel, based on the granting of the motion to compel and plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process in the total sum of $6,672.90, payable within 30 days.  Monetary sanctions were awarded in favor of defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D., based on the granting of the motion to compel and plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process in the total sum of $3,351.93, payable within 30 days.  The minute order notes that the tentative ruling was made the final order with the modification that no sanctions were ordered against Jonathan Borsuk.  Plaintiff filed a motion to augment or substitute expert witness list which was originally heard on November 17, 2023, and was continued to December 1, 2023, evidently due to plaintiff representing at the hearing that one expert plaintiff had sought to add to the witness list as a new expert had fallen out of contact with counsel.  That expert was a witness plaintiff indicated would be offering opinions substantially conforming to those previously offered by expert Dr. Tahwid Gazi in this matter.  Plaintiff’s attorney indicated that Dr. Gazi was no longer a witness plaintiff intended to designate and that plaintiff would be designating another witness to give medical testimony.     The court’s minute order states:“After hearing from counsel, the Court orders the hearing continued to the date indicated below at the request of plaintiff.  No additional briefing or reply is allowed except a Notice of Different Expert Designation.”[Minute Order, 11/17/2023, p. 1 of 10].  On December 1, 2023, along with the continued motion concerning augmenting plaintiff’s expert witness list, the court heard two motions to dismiss the action for failure to bring the matter to trial, one filed by defendant Olympus, and one filed by defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao.   At the hearing, the court issued a tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was to continue the hearing for further briefing in connection with the motions to dismiss of a narrow issue designated by the court:“Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss Action for Failure to Bring the Matter to Trial is CONTINUED to December 22, 2023 for further briefing on the narrow issues of whether plaintiff can meet his burden pursuant to CCP section 583.340(c) of establishing that it is impossible, impractical, and/or futile to bring the case to trial within the five-year statutory period during the time the parties are engaging in preparing and amending their long-cause package, and the matter is under evaluation for submission to long-cause. The Court will expect further legal briefing and a further factual record limited to the issues of trial readiness, causality and the exercise of reasonable diligence in connection with the above issue, and in light of the recently filed published decision of Oswald v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023) _Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095. Supplemental Opposition is to be filed and served by no later than December 11, 2023. Supplemental Replies are to be filed and served no later than December 15, 2023.”[Minute Order 12/02/2023, p. 37].  A similar order was made in connection with the motion to dismiss brought by Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao.   Supplemental briefs were filed, served and considered by the court and at the hearing on December 22, 2023, the court denied a motion by plaintiff for reconsideration of its September 15, 2023 orders in connection with the Dr. Gazi expert deposition and monetary sanctions, granted the two motions to dismiss under CCP section 583.360 for failure to have brought the case to trial within five years, as extended by statute by six months, and deemed the motion to augment and substitute experts moot in light of the granting of the motion to dismiss.  On January 12, 2024, the court signed and filed a Judgment of Dismissal as to Defendant Olympus America, Inc., ordering, adjudging and decreeing that plaintiff’s operative Second Amended Complaint was dismissed pursuant to CCP sections 583.310 as to defendant Olympus America, Inc.  The judgment further states that defendant “shall recover its costs of suit from Plaintiff Jason Steger in accordance with a bill of costs to be filed after entry of this judgment.”  A similar Judgment of Dismissal as to Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D., and James Kao, M.D. was filed and signed the same date.  Also on January 12, 2024, the court signed and filed an Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from September 15, 2023 Hearing in Favor of Defendant Olympus America, Inc., ordering plaintiff Jason Steger, plaintiff’s counsel of record Blake J. Lindemann and Lindemann Law Firm, APC to pay the monetary sanctions in the amount of $6,672.90, plus interest, jointly and severally, to defendant Olympus America, Inc. within thirty days of notice of entry of the order.   A similar Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from September 15, 2023 Hearing in Favor of John A. Kasher, M.D., and James Kao, M.D.  was filed and signed the same date, ordering the payment of monetary sanctions in favor of defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. in the sum of $3,351.93, payable within thirty days of notice of the entry of the order.  Also on January 12, 2024, the court entered an Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from August 6, 2021 Hearing in Favor of Defendant Olympus America Inc., summarizing an August 6, 2021 minute order which awarded sanctions in connection with four discovery motions, three for responses to written discovery, and one to deem requests for admissions deemed admitted, which motions had been rendered moot by the service of belated responses prior to the hearing.  The court awarded monetary sanctions in the total amount of $2,825.00 in favor of defendant Olympus America, Inc. and against plaintiff Jason Steger.  The order provides, “Plaintiff Jason Steger is ordered to pay the monetary sanctions to Defendant Olympus America Inc. within thirty (30) days of notice of entry of this order.”    On January 18, 2024, the clerk filed and served a Notice of Entry of Dismissal, giving notice of the entry of the order of dismissal on January 12, 2024, and of entry of the orders for monetary sanction awards filed on January 12, 2024. On March 6, 2024, plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal indicating that plaintiff Jason, Blake J. Lindemann and Lindemann Law Firm, APC filed a notice of appeal to the court of appeal:“from the Notice of Ruling Dismissing this Case pursuant to the Five-Year Rule, dated December 27, 2023, any subsequently signed Judgment, and all interim adverse rulings and findings previously issued in the Case through and including January 12, 2024, and any adverse rulings in the case made pre or post-judgment.” On April 11, 2024, the court heard an ex parte application brought by plaintiff to defer or stay collection activities pending this hearing on plaintiff’s motion to clarify a stay pending appeal.  The ex parte application was granted, and the court ordered stays on the writs of execution prohibiting the Sheriff’s Department from executing on writs of execution pending the hearing scheduled for May 3, 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel was ordered to serve and file a Proposed Order by the end of business that date, and plaintiff was ordered to give notice.  A proposed order was electronically received on April 11, 2024 at 3:38 pm, but has not been signed or filed by the court.  There does not appear to be a notice in the file.  ANALYSIS:Motion to Clarify Stay The moving papers seek to stay the enforcement of the orders imposing monetary sanctions in this matter and appear to argue primarily that the court here should find that such proceedings here are subject to a mandatory stay pending appeal pursuant to CCP section 916 (a).  In general, CCP section 916 provides:“(a) Except as provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.”  Plaintiff does not argue that the exceptions in Sections 917.1 to 917.9 do not apply here, but the opposition points out that CCP section 917.1 provides, in pertinent part:“(a) Unless an undertaking is given, the perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment or order in the trial court if the judgment or order is for any of the following:(1) Money or the payment of money, whether consisting of a special fund or not, and whether payable by the appellant or another party to the action. The motion here pertains to orders for the payment of monetary discovery sanctions, which would constitute orders for “money or the payment of money,” which would require the giving of an undertaking.   The opposition argues that this motion is improperly attempting to avoid this requirement.   Here, as argued in the opposition, the attempt here to stay the appeal under this provision is improperly sought in this court, as the motion essentially seeks a stay of an order for the payment of money, without seeking such relief in the court of appeal and being subject to the applicable bonding provisions to postpone paying a money judgment entered by the trial court. The opposition also relies on CCP section 918, which provides:“(a) Subject to subdivision (b), the trial court may stay the enforcement of any judgment or order.(b) If the enforcement of the judgment or order would be stayed on appeal only by the giving of an undertaking, a trial court shall not have power, without the consent of the adverse party, to stay the enforcement thereof pursuant to this section for a period which extends for more than 10 days beyond the last date on which a notice of appeal could be filed.(c) This section applies whether or not an appeal will be taken from the judgment or order and whether or not a notice of appeal has been filed.”The opposition argues that the ten-day period beyond the last day on which a notice to appeal could be filed past weeks ago, and the judgment on appeal can be stayed only by the giving of an undertaking.  Accordingly, pursuant to the clear language of the statute, the “trial court shall not have power” to stay enforcement without the consent of the adverse party.   The opposition argues that the Code allows the trial court to grant a temporary stay of up to ten days beyond the appeal deadline so that the judgment debtor has a chance to decide whether to appeal, and, if so, to post a bond pursuant to CCP section 917.1.  Defendants argue that this court accordingly has no jurisdiction to stay enforcement of the monetary sanctions award. Here, the notice of entry of the dismissals and orders was served by the clerk on January 18, 2024.  The time to appeal is on or before “60 days after the superior court clerk serves on the party filing the notice of appeal a document entitled ‘Notice of Entry’ of judgment” showing the date it was served.  CRC Rule 8.104 (a)(A).   Sixty days after the service on January 18, 2024 by the clerk of the Notice of Entry document was March 18, 2024.   Ten days beyond this last date to appeal would be March 28, 2024, which in fact has long passed.   The opposition cites to Sharifpour v. Le (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 730, in which the court of appeal reversed a trial court order of a stay on appeal without an undertaking, emphasizing the statutory language that “a trial court shall not have power without the consent of the adverse party,” to stay enforcement on appeal, and finding that the failure of the adverse party to file a timely written opposition to the request for a stay had been improperly characterized by the trial court as the giving of consent.  Sharifpour, at 733-734, italics in original.  The court of appeal found that the trial court abused its discretion in so characterizing the failure to file an opposition, and that the court “exceeded its powers in staying enforcement of the judgment,” when the opposing parties appeared at the hearing and objected.   Id.  Here, there has been no consent of the adverse parties, and the reply does not argue that such consent can be implied in these circumstances.  The statute is clear: this court has no power to stay enforcement.  The motion must be denied.  The court has no other option.Plaintiff in reply appears to concede that this matter is not subject to the mandatory stay provisions but focuses on a brief argument in the moving papers that this court should issue a discretionary stay.   Plaintiff cites to no statutory authority which would permit the trial court to do so in this circumstance governed by CCP sections 917.1 and 918, as set forth above. Plaintiff argues that a stay should be issued here to protect plaintiff from irreparable injury.  The court in Sharifpour expressly rejected a similar argument that without a stay the responding parties could suffer prejudice from the judgment being collected, noting that the only question was the correct procedure for obtaining a stay, which procedure required the giving of an undertaking.  Sharifpour, at 735.  The cases cited by plaintiff involve application of stay provisions to other than money judgments, including the general provision of CCP section 916, which expressly applies, only “[e]xcept as provided in sections 917.1 through 917.9, inclusive,” when section 917.1 clearly applies here.  See Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180 (automatic stay applies to stay all further trial court proceedings on causes of action affected by the trial court’s order on an anti-SLAPP motion).  In MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 618, the Second District noted, in dicta, that “the plaintiff may request a stay of trial court proceedings while the appeal for denial of the preliminary injunction is pending.”  MaJor, at 623-624.   The case did not address a judgment or order for the payment of money.  The court of appeal in Vineyard Springs Estates v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 633, did not address the propriety of a stay at all; on the page cited by plaintiff, the court of appeal merely ordered in the disposition of a summary judgment order reviewed on a petition for writ of mandate that, “The stay of proceedings in the trial court is vacated.”  Vineyard, at 643.    These cases fail to overcome the statutory limits on the court’s power here, where the stay of a bonded obligation is sought to be extended beyond ten days after the time to appeal expired without the consent of the adverse party.  Plaintiff argues that a stay is necessary to preserve the jurisdiction of the court of appeal with respect to the propriety of the sanctions order and to preserve the rights of plaintiff on a serious and controversial question based on a non-merit ruling.  This argument appears to apply to the orders dismissing the action, and not on the orders awarding monetary sanctions in connection with discovery motions, which were determined on their merits.  The discovery orders were based on conduct taken in connection with the Discovery Act and this court’s discovery orders, specifically, orders in favor of Olympus deeming discovery motions moot in light of the service of belated responses, which were served only after the expense of the motions had been incurred.   The orders also include the discovery orders of September 15, 2023, and were based on sanctions awarded in connection plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel having made representations to the parties and the court concerning the availability of plaintiff’s designated expert witness, who had submitted a declaration in opposition to motions for summary judgment, and the conduct of counsel for plaintiff in requiring that the deposition be conducted in New York, instead of California, to accommodate the expert.  The motions were determined on their merits based on counsel personally conducting the court ordered deposition, and plaintiff’s counsel is not permitting the examination to proceed as ordered.  Plaintiff’s arguments, raised for the first time in the reply, that the appeal will determine if the sanctions were improperly awarded due entirely to the conduct of the witness, and not to any conduct of plaintiff or plaintiff’s counsel, are not persuasive to this court, which has carefully examined the evidence concerning the conduct of all parties in connection with the refusal to produce the witness for an in person deposition, the insistence that the witness be deposed overseas, and then in New York, and the conduct of plaintiff’s counsel in the state of New York, after defendant’s counsel had travelled to New York for the deposition.  Such conduct by plaintiff’s counsel included limiting the expert witness deposition time to two hours, limiting the scope of inquiry, and refusing to make the witness available the next day for further deposition when the witness said he needed to leave the deposition after 2 hours to treat patients.   These findings were clearly a determination on the merits that plaintiff’s counsel repeatedly had violated the court’s discovery order.  To the extent plaintiff in the reply seems to argue that the sanctions orders were improperly made in disregard of the five-year rule, this argument is not an argument concerning the propriety of issuing a stay of enforcement on appeal.In any case, as discussed in detail above, a money judgment must be bonded in order to stay its enforcement.  There is also an argument that the other parties will not be harmed by the stay because they are in a superior position as to net worth and insurance coverage, while plaintiff Steger’s obligations are not collectible.   There is no authority cited under which this “fairness” argument permits the trial court to issue a discretionary stay where there is a bonding requirement.  The argument is akin to the prejudice argument rejected in Sharifpour, discussed above.  See Sharifpour, at 735.     Plaintiff in the alternative seeks an order from the court that any decision on the part of the sanctioned parties not to pay the sanctions is a simple judgment subject to collection in accordance with post-judgment enforcement rules and as such does not constitute willful disobedience in light of the appeal.   This request improperly seeks an advisory ruling when there is no proceeding currently before the court which would require a determination concerning any willful disobedience of an order.  The court notes parenthetically that “willful” usually means an intentional and voluntary act.  In this sense, the decision by plaintiff’s attorney and/or the plaintiff not to pay the sanctions would be a willful, but not a malicious act.  Whether a failure to obey a court order is malicious is irrelevant to any stay of enforcement.The opposition argues that if plaintiff continues to avoid satisfying the bonding requirement under CCP section 917.1, and to nevertheless avoid defendants’ efforts to pursue collection under the enforcement of judgment rules, defendants could take up that issue at that time with the court of appeals.  The defendants in theory could seek dismissal of the appeal in the court of appeal, but that would be an appellate court issue only.  This court agrees that any issue concerning a finding of willful disobedience is not proper before it here.  The issue of willful disobedience is irrelevant to any contempt or enforcement of judgment proceedings.The opposition also argues that once a judgment has been entered, a court may not reconsider it or make changes to the judgment.  Hence, this court has no authority to make any rulings “clarifying” its prior sanctions orders, which were entered as final judgments on January 12, 2024.  Passavanti v. Williams (1990) 225 Cal. App. 3d 1602, 1606 (“A court may reconsider its order granting or denying a motion and may even reconsider or alter its judgment so long as judgment has not yet been entered. Once judgment has been entered, however, the court may not reconsider it and loses its unrestricted power to change the judgment. It may correct judicial error only through certain limited procedures such as motions for new trial and motions to vacate the judgment.”) See also, Ramon v. Aerospace Corp. (1996, 2nd Dist.) 50 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1237-1238. (“After entry of judgment, a party must use statutory methods to attack the judgment in the trial court or must file an appeal.”) The motion accordingly is denied.  The motion is denied without prejudice to plaintiff seeking a stay of this matter and/or a stay of the enforcement of the discovery sanctions orders pending appeal from the court of appeal, if appropriate. Motion to Tax CostsProceduralJoint MotionPlaintiff Jason Steger has filed “Plaintiff Jason Steger’s Joint Motion to Strike and Disallow in Total (1) Memorandum of Costs Filed by Dr. John Kasher and Dr. James Kao on February 2, 2024; (2) Memorandum of Costs Filed by Olympus America, Inc.”   Defendant Olympus in opposition to the motion argues that plaintiff improperly has filed a “Joint” motion to tax costs, when the motion is actually two motions, motions to challenge costs claimed in two separate memoranda of costs, claimed by two distinct sets of parties, using only one hearing reservation.  Defendant points out that the court has discouraged plaintiff in the past from filing combined motions under only one hearing reservation, cautioning that joint motions should be brought as the proper number of motions, with separate reservations, “to avoid calendar congestion and jumping ahead” of other motions, and to ensure the court collects the filing fees to which it is entitled.  [Hoffman Decl., paras. 5, 6, Exs. D and E].  The court again cautions plaintiff to refrain in the future from filing “joint” motions.  The court in its discretion will consider the motion as to each memorandum of costs this date, despite this impropriety.  Timeliness of Memoranda of Costs Plaintiff argues that the memoranda of costs filed by defendants should each be stricken in their entirety as untimely.  Plaintiff cites, without quoting, CRC Rule 3.1700 (a) (1), which provides:“A prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date of mailing of the notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5 or the date of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or within 180 days after entry of judgment, whichever is first.”  Under subdivision (b)(3), the parties may agree in writing to extend the time for serving and filing the cost memorandum.  “In the absence of an agreement, the court may extend the time for serving and filing the cost memorandum...for a period not to exceed 30 days.”Plaintiff cites to case law under which it is held that, “The time provisions relating to the filing of a memorandum of costs, while not jurisdictional, are mandatory.”  Hydratec, Inc. v. Sun Valley 260 Orchard & Vineyard Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 924, 929.  See also Cardinal Health 301, Inc. v. Tyco Elecs. Corp. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 116, 155, (the court may extend the time under the statute, even on its own motion).    Plaintiff argues that defendants have failed to meet the mandatory deadline, because in this case a notice of ruling was served on all parties concerning the dismissal on December 27, 2023.  Plaintiff argues that any memorandum of costs was accordingly due on January 11, 2024, but that Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao served their memorandum on February 2, 2024, and Olympus served its memorandum on January 25, 2024, beyond the 15-day deadline.  The moving papers do not submit a copy of this notice.  [See Lindeman Decl., para. 3].  The notice relied upon is submitted for the first time with the reply, which is not appropriate.  [Reply, Ex. 1]. In any case, defendants argue in their oppositions that the file in this matter reflects that on January 18, 2024, the clerk filed and served a Notice of Entry of Dismissal, giving notice of the entry of the order of dismissal on January 12, 2024, and of entry of the orders for monetary sanction awards filed on January 12, 2024. It is clear that under the statutory language, the January 18, 2024 notice triggered the 15-day requirement, so that the parties had at least until February 2, 2024 to serve and file a memorandum of costs.  The memorandum served and filed by Olympus on January 25, 2023 and the memorandum served and filed by Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao on February 2, 2024 both are timely.  The opposition filed by Olympus also points out that at the December 22, 2023 hearing, the court ordered the parties to prepare their respective versions of the proposed judgment of dismissal, and to reappear on January 12, 2024 for oral argument regarding the form of the judgment.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 2]. The minute order from the December 22, 2023 hearing actually stated that the motions to dismiss were “continued to 01/12/2024,” and that “Each side is ordered to submit a Proposed Judgment.”  [Minute Order 12/22/2023, pp. 72, 73].  The orders entering dismissal and orders concerning discovery were not signed and filed until January 12, 2024, so any notice of entry of dismissal served on December 27, 2023 could not have given notice of entry of dismissal, as dismissal had not yet been entered.   In fact, a review of what plaintiff evidently relies upon as the notice triggering the 15-day period which was served by Olympus, is entitled “Notice of Ruling Re: Proceedings Held on December 22, 2023,” represents only that the motions to dismiss were “GRANTED.”  It does not state that dismissals were ordered or entered, and also expressly states that defendants were “to submit proposed judgments of dismissal by January 12, 2024.  [Notice of Ruling filed and served 12/27/2023].   The file also shows that defendants then proceeded to submit proposed judgments, and on January 8, 2024, plaintiff filed objections to those proposed judgments and orders and submitted his own proposed judgment.   This undermines any argument that the December 27, 2023 notice constituted, under CRC Rule 3.1700 (a) (1) “the date of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal.” It is clear that the notice under CRC Rule 3.1700 (a) (1), the “mailing of the notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk,” was made on January 18, 2024, when the clerk filed and served a Notice of Entry of Dismissal in this matter.  Each cost memorandum was timely served and filed within the permitted time period from this date.  They are not stricken as untimely. Substantive Motion to Tax/Strike—Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao Under CCP §1032 (b), “Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.”   CCP § 1032 (a) (4) defines “prevailing party”:“(4) ‘Prevailing party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.  If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.”Here, defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao were clearly defendants in whose favor a dismissal was entered, so they are prevailing parties entitled to recover costs in this proceeding. Moreover, the Judgment of Dismissal as to Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D., and James Kao, M.D. filed and signed by the court on January 12, 2024 expressly states that defendants “shall recover its costs of suit from Plaintiff Jason Steger in accordance with a bill of costs to be filed after entry of this judgment.”  Under CCP § 1033.5(c)(2), “Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”  Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in amount.”Where a cost item does not appear proper and necessary on its face, the burden of proof is on the claimant to show the cost is appropriate.  Murphy v. F.D. Cornell Co., (1930) 110 Cal. App. 452, 454.   If the items appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary.   Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.  Where items are properly objected to as not reasonable or necessary, however, they are put in issue.  The burden of proof then is on the party claiming them as costs.  Id.  The trial court’s determination on a motion to tax or strike costs will be reversed only for an abuse of discretion.   Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994, 2nd Dist.) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 121.   Item 1—Filing and Motion Fees ($3,154.60)CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(1) Filing, motion, and jury fees.”Plaintiff argues that the filing fees on two motions for summary judgment ($1,000) should be disallowed because defendants were not the prevailing parties on the motions, which had nothing to do with the outcome of this case.As argued in the opposition, the filing fees for these motions appear proper on their face, and plaintiff has failed to establish that the motions were not reasonably necessary to the defense of the litigation.  Plaintiff cites no authority under which filing fees can be denied simply because the filing party did not prevail on the motion.  The motion to tax the filing fee for the summary judgment motions is denied.  Plaintiff also argues that defendants seek costs for filing fees for ex parte applications, which could have been due to exigencies or health emergencies, which would have been incurred for the convenience of defendants and not reasonably necessary.   The costs at issue are claim for ex parte fees of $133.00 and $165.95.  The court has identified another ex parte fee claimed of $216.40 for filing of oppositions, which is similarly concerning.  There are no invoices or receipts attached to the Memorandum of Costs in support of these fees for the court to examine.  The charges accordingly do not appear proper on their face, and no invoices or receipts are submitted, shifting the burden to defendants to justify them. Defendants have failed to do so in the opposition papers.  The motion accordingly is granted with respect to these fees only. The costs sought of $3,154.60 will be reduced by the ex parte fees of $133.00, $165.95 and $216.40, to $2,639.25. Item 4—Deposition Costs ($18,455.90) CCP § 1033.5(a)(3)(A) provides that an allowable cost includes:  "Taking, videotaping, and transcribing necessary depositions..."  CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(3)(A) Taking, videotaping, and transcribing necessary depositions, including an original and one copy of those taken by the claimant and one copy of depositions take by the party against whom costs are allowed.” The deposition costs do not appear irregular on their face, except defendants seek $1,125.00 for the cost of deposing Tawhod R. Gazi, M.D.  This cost does not appear proper on its face, as these defendants were awarded the reasonable costs and fees for this deposition as a discovery sanction.  Defendants have not explained how this claim of costs is justified, and these costs will not be awarded twice.   Deposition costs of $18,455.90 will be reduced by $1,125.00 to $17,330.90.Item 5—Service of Process ($11,732.12)CCP section 1033.5(a)(4) specifies that allowable costs include: "(4) Service of process by a public officer, registered process server, or other means, as follows:(A)  When service is by a public officer, the recoverable cost is the fee authorized by law at the time of service.(B)  If service is by a process server registered pursuant to Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 22350) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, the recoverable cost is the amount actually incurred in effecting service, including, but not limited to, a stakeout or other means employed in locating the person to be served, unless such charges are successfully challenged by a party to the action." Plaintiff argues that costs for service of process for a case that did not go to trial should be disallowed.  This argument would appear to apply to any costs claimed here for records obtained by a business records subpoena.  Ordinarily, these would be in the nature of photocopying charges.  CCP 1033.5(a)(12) provides “Models and blowups of exhibits and photocopies of exhibits may be allowed if they were reasonably helpful to the trier of fact.”  CCP §1033.5 (b) specifies that certain items are not allowable as costs unless expressly authorized by law, including "investigation expenses in preparing the case for trial" and "photocopying charges, except for exhibits." §1033.5(b)(2), (3).  Accordingly, the courts have noted that the costs to obtain medical records are not recoverable unless the documents were admitted into evidence as exhibits. See Austin v. Allstate Insurance Co. (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1812.  Although Austin involved the recovery of costs under an arbitration proceeding, and not a judicial proceeding governed by CCP § 1033.5, the court indicated in a footnote:  "As to the $418.35 for copying medical records, only the photocopying charges for documents admitted into evidence as exhibits would be allowable. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (b)(3).)"  Austin, at 1815, n.2.    A review of the billings submitted here are for subpoenas for records from medical providers, which are improper on their face.  [See Memorandum, attachments, Section 5].  As there was no trial, it is clear that the documents at issue were not admitted into evidence as exhibits.  Moreover, the billings which are not obviously for subpoenas do not include sufficient information to identify what service of process they are for, and do not indicate what type of process server completed any such process, or include the information required by the statute concerning the allowable costs. [Section 5].  These costs also are improper on their face.  This showing shifts the burden to defendants to demonstrate that they are proper charges.  Defendants in the opposition do not address this item of costs or meet their burden of justifying these costs. The costs sought will be stricken in their entirety, and the costs sought of $11,732.12 will be reduced to -0- Item 8—Witness Fees ($112,652.00)CCP section 1033.5(a)(7) provides that recoverable costs include "[o]rdinary witness fees pursuant to section 68093 of the Government Code." Government Code section 68093 provides that witness fees are $35.00 per day and miles actually traveled, both ways, at twenty cents per mile. Here, the ordinary witness fees sought are $1,500.00 for witness Philip Fleshner, M.D. and $4,500.00 for witness Mohammad A.P. Pourshahmir.  [Memo, para. 8(a)].  These costs are improper on their face.  Plaintiff argues that the fees are essentially an improper payoff to plaintiff’s treating doctors and do not appear to be “ordinary” or reasonable in amount.   This showing shifts the burden to defendants to establish entitlement to these costs.  Defendants do not explain how these charges are appropriate either as ordinary witness fees, or in the amount, which far exceed the Government Code amounts permitted.  These charges, in the total sum of $7,000, are  taxed from the total sum claimed. Plaintiff also argues that plaintiff is not entitled to expert fees, which are generally not allowable as costs under CCP section 1033.5(b)(1), which provides:“The following items are not allowable as costs, except when expressly authorized by law:(1) Fees of experts not ordered by the court.”Defendants argue that these fees are recoverable under CCP section 1033.5 (a)(3)(A) which provides that recoverable costs include the taking of necessary depositions.  Deposition expenses are evidently already claimed in the significant claim for deposition costs, and do not appear to be sought here.Defendants also argue that the costs are recoverable under CCP section 998, because on February 25, 2019, defendants sent plaintiff an offer to compromise under CCP section 998, which plaintiff did not accept.    CCP § 998 provides, in pertinent part:“(c)(1) If an offer made by a defendant is not accepted and the plaintiff fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or award, the plaintiff shall not recover his or her postoffer costs and shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.  In addition, in any action or proceeding other than an eminent domain action, the court or arbitrator, in its discretion, may require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum to cover costs of the services of expert witnesses, who are not regular employees of any party, actually incurred and reasonably necessary in either, or both, preparation for trial or arbitration, or during trial or arbitration, of the case by the defendant.” Defendants do not submit a declaration with the opposition, and so there is no admissible evidence before the court that a Section 998 offer was made, when it was made, in what amount, or that it was not accepted by plaintiff.   There also does not appear to be a written Section 998 offer submitted with the memorandum of costs.   In Behr v. Redmond (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 517, it was found reversible error for a trial court to award expert witness fees in the absence of a showing supported by a copy of the written offer to compromise.  Behr, at 538.   Moreover, with respect to interpretation of offers under CCP § 998 in general, the party offering the settlement “bears the burden of demonstrating that a section 998 offer is valid, and the offer must be strictly construed in favor of the party subjected to its operation.”   Persson v. Smart Inventions, Inc. (2005, 2nd Dist.) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1170, citing Barella v. Exchange Bank (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 793, 79.Under the circumstances, defendants have failed to establish their entitlement to expert fees under this statutory provision, or met their burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid offer, and the expert fees claimed are taxed and are not awarded.  Even had the existence of a valid CCP section 998 offer and its non-acceptance been established, the statute permits the court to award such costs, “in its discretion.”  The court in this instance, where the matter has been dismissed based on the five-year rule, and never proceeded to trial, will not exercise its discretion to award expert fees.  The entire item claimed as Item 8 for ordinary and expert witness fees in the sum of $112,652.00 will be stricken and reduced to -0-.Item 11—Court Reporter Fees as Established by Statute ($3,525.28) Under CCP section 1033.5 (a)(11), allowable costs include “Court reporter fees as established by statute.”  Under subsection (a) (9), allowable costs include “Transcripts of court proceedings ordered by the court.”  Under CRC Rule 2.956(c):“If the services of an official court reporter are not available for a hearing or trial in a civil case, a party may arrange for the presence of a certified shorthand reporter to serve as an official pro tempore reporter. It is that party's responsibility to pay the reporter's fee for attendance at the proceedings, but the expense may be recoverable as part of the costs, as provided by law.”Plaintiff argues that the court reporter’s fees appear to be for services not ordered by the court.  This showing shifts the burden to defendants to establish entitlement to the costs.   The opposition simply cites subdivision (a)(11), without explanation.  As noted above, that subdivision is limited to fees as established by statute.  No other statute is cited or discussed. The recoverable costs for a reporter retained by the party under the Rules of Court appear to be the fee “for attendance at the proceedings,” to serve as official reporter.  A review of the memorandum shows that it simply lists six entries, the names of persons and a company, presumably court reporters, and their fees, without dates or explanation concerning for what the services were.  [Memorandum, para. 12, Attachment 12c]. There are evidently no attachments to the memorandum in support of this item, as the attachments skip from Section 8, evidently billings for experts, to Section 12, evidently billings for copying costs.  There appear to be no billings or invoices for court reporters.   This presentation, combined with a complete lack of explanation in the opposition concerning for what the services were provided, prevents the court from determining that the costs are properly sought for recording of court proceedings in this matter for which a reporter was not available, as opposed to for depositions or providing other services, or that the costs do not include items not reasonable in amount, such as for unjustified expedited services. Defendants have failed to justify these claimed costs, which are not proper on their face, and these costs will not be awarded. Costs sought of $3,525.28 will be stricken in their entirety and reduced to -0-. Item 12—Models, Enlargements, and Photocopies of Exhibits ($23,926.67)CCP 1033.5(a)(13) provides, “Models, the enlargement of exhibits and photocopies of exhibits, and the electronic presentation of exhibits, including costs of rental equipment and electronic formatting, may be allowed if they were reasonably helpful to the trier of fact.”  CCP §1033.5 (b) specifies that certain items are not allowable as costs unless expressly authorized by law, including "Investigation expenses in preparing the case for trial" and "…photocopying charges, except for exhibits." §1033.5(b)(2), (3).  The Memorandum of Costs states at paragraph 11 of the Memorandum of Costs (Worksheet) that costs for Models, enlargements and photocopies of exhibits are claimed for “bindings, document reproduction, etc.”  Plaintiff argues that these costs should be disallowed, as charges for photocopying and other charges unrelated to actually going to trial are not permitted, and there was no trial in this case.  As discussed above, the courts have hold that, under this subdivision of the statute, only the photocopying charges for documents admitted into evidence as exhibits at trial are allowable costs.  Austin v. Allstate Insurance Co. (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1812, 1815, n.2.Plaintiff cites to Ladas v. California State Automobile Association (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, in which the court of appeal held:“Section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(12) provides that expenses of trial exhibits "may  be allowed if they were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact." (Italics added.)It follows that fees are not authorized for exhibits not used at trial. Since the case  was dismissed before trial, CSAA failed to qualify for recovery of exhibit costs under this standard. These items should have been disallowed in their entirety.”Ladas, at 775. Plaintiff also relies on Seever v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557, in which the Second District, citing Ladas, and quoting CCP section 1033.5 (a)(12), held, “On its face this statutory language excludes as a permissible item of costs exhibits not used at trial, which obviously could not have assisted the trier of fact.” This conclusion, along with the pronouncement on this particular issue in Ladas, were disapproved by the California Supreme Court in Segal v. ASICS America Corp. (2022) 12 Cal. 5th 651, the Court finding that the trial court retains: “discretionary authority under section 1033.5(c)(4) to award costs incurred in preparing demonstratives and photocopies of trial exhibits, even though they were not ultimately used at trial, when such materials are reasonably necessary to the conduct of litigation and reasonable in amount.”Segal, at 667. Here, since this matter did not go to trial, the costs sought appear improper on their face without a showing that their preparation was reasonably necessary to the conduct of litigation and reasonable in amount.  This showing shifts the burden to defendants to establish entitlement to these costs.  Defendants in opposition argue that they are entitled to the costs of anatomical illustrations for trial as a matter of right under CCP 1033.5(a)(13). Defendants argue that they were fully prepared to move forward with trial as scheduled in July of 2023 and had incurred the associated anatomical illustration fees, and that it was because of plaintiff’s actions that the trial did not move forward as scheduled.  Defendants fail to cite any legal authority for this argument, and they do not cite Segal.  Defendants also fail to submit with the motion any declaration or explanation how the costs sought were reasonably necessary to the conduct of litigation and reasonable in amount, as would be required under Segal for the court to exercise its discretion to award costs with respect to exhibits not presented at trial.  It is also not clear which of the costs were associated with the argued anatomical illustration fees, and which of the costs related to other claimed exhibit preparation or copying costs, and how any other costs claimed would warrant discretionary relief.   Defendants have failed to meet their burden to establish entitlement to this item of costs, there is no evidence submitted upon which the court may reasonably exercise its discretion to award the item of costs, and it is stricken.  The cost sought in the sum of $23,926.67 will be reduced to -0-. Item 14—Fees for Electronic Filing or Service ($11,564.00)CCP section 1033.5(a)(14) provides that allowable costs include:“Fees for the electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service provider if a court requires or orders electronic filing or service of documents.” Plaintiff argues that these fees should not be allowed because there is no evidence they were ordered by the court.   The Memorandum of Costs attaches numerous invoices from Nationwide Legal, LLC and First Legal Network, LLC.  It is not clear from the invoices whether the e-filing costs invoiced are fees charged for both filing and service, and there is no showing that the court has required electronic service in this matter.  There is no indication by defendant when the court began requiring electronic filing, although the charges go back to 2018. The invoices also appear to seek fees for delivery to the court of courtesy copies, and items like “Tabs,” which do not appear to pertain to electronic filing or service.  There are several invoices submitted which include charges on multiple other cases, without highlighting or explaining that the totals sought based on these invoices are only for the charges in this case. The charges also appear to be extremely high.  The charges for the Motion to Dismiss, for example, were $565.60.  [Section 14, Invoice 10/30/2023].  The charge to file an Objection to Plaintiff’s Proposed Judgment, which the file shows was only five pages long, including proof of service, was $49.15.   [See Section 14, Invoice 1/12/2024].  The opposition does not address this Item.  The charges are not proper on their face, and plaintiff properly has objected on the ground that defendants have failed to make the foundational showing that electronic filing and service was required, which shifts the burden to defendants to establish the costs fall under the statutory provision.  Defendants have failed to meet this burden, and the cost claimed are stricken.  The costs claimed in the Memorandum of Costs (Summary) at Item 14 in the sum of $11,564.00 are stricken and reduced to -0-.   (Note, there is a discrepancy between the costs for this item sought in the Memorandum of Costs (Summary) at paragraph 14 of $11,564.00 and those sought in the Memorandum of Costs (Worksheet) at paragraph 14 of $7,939.00).Item 16—Other ($6,079.48)  The Memorandum of Costs seeks costs designated “Other.”  Although the Worksheet has a space requesting that the party claiming costs “specify,” there is no such specification here.  Plaintiff argues that these costs for “Other” should be disallowed as not permissible, not allowed, and vague.  It is not clear how these costs are recoverable.  The showing is in fact extremely vague.  Ordinarily, this item is sought pursuant to CCP §1033.5(a)(16), which provides that allowable costs include: “Any other item that is required to be awarded to the prevailing party pursuant to statute as an incident to prevailing in the action at trial or on appeal.” Such other costs are also often sought under CCP§ 1033.5(c)(4) provides that “Items not mentioned in this section and items assessed upon application may be allowed or denied in the court’s discretion.”  The opposition does not address this Item. A review of the documents attached to the Memorandum, Section 16, appears to include receipts for travel to Chicago, Sacramento, Glendale, Marina Del Rey, a cancelled flight, and hotel and meal charges, including in Syracuse, New York, for which monetary sanctions have already been awarded.  [Section 16]. There are also receipts for Uber rides, rental cars, shipping of documents, and the purchase of a book. [Section 16].To the extent the costs are for travel, plaintiff argues that travel expenses unrelated to depositions are not recoverable.  Ordinarily travel expenses are only awarded for “Travel expenses to attend deposition.”  CCP § 1033.5(a)(3)(C).  Plaintiff again relies on Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn.  (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 772: “The only travel expenses authorized by section 1033.5 are those to attend depositions. (@ 1033.5, subd. (a)(3).) Routine expenses for local travel by attorneys or other firm employees are not reasonably necessary to the conduct of litigation.”Ladas, at 775-776.  Defendants here have failed to establish that the costs claimed are recoverable, as there is no showing or explanation that the receipts attached pertain to travel to attend depositions.  To the extent defendants appear to be claiming costs for delivery or messenger charges, it is not clear what is being delivered, and ordinarily such charges would not be considered allowable costs under CCP section 1033.5(b)(3), which excludes "[p]ostage," as an allowable cost.  See Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 132. The court of appeal in Ladas found that since the party claiming costs had provided a declaration explaining the need for such messenger services, the trial court had not abused its discretion in permitting them:"the declaration of Hunsader stated that these charges were related to trial preparation, and were incurred for such matters as filing documents with the court, complying with appellants' document demands, and transporting exhibits to and from the courtroom. The declaration provides substantial evidence that these charges were reasonably necessary. The trial court therefore had an adequate basis for allowing these costs under section 1033.5, subdivision (c)(4), and its denial of the motion in this respect was not an abuse of discretion."Ladas, at 774. No such declaration has been submitted by defendants here, and the costs sought will not be awarded.  The item is stricken, and the costs sought of $6,079.48 are reduced to -0- Motion to Tax/Strike—Olympus Under CCP §1032 (b), “Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.”   CCP § 1032 (a) (4) defines “prevailing party”:“(4) ‘Prevailing party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.  If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.”Here, defendant Olympus was clearly a defendant in whose favor a dismissal was entered, so it is a prevailing party entitled to recover costs in this proceeding. Moreover, the Judgment of Dismissal as to Defendant Olympus America Inc. filed and signed by the court on January 12, 2024, expressly states that defendant “shall recover its costs of suit from Plaintiff Jason Steger in accordance with a bill of costs to be filed after entry of this judgment.”  Under CCP § 1033.5(c)(2), “Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”  Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in amount.”Where a cost item does not appear proper and necessary on its face, the burden of proof is on the claimant to show the cost is appropriate.  Murphy v. F.D. Cornell Co., (1930) 110 Cal. App. 452, 454.   If the items appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary.   Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.  Where items are properly objected to as not reasonable or necessary, however, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.  Id.  The trial court’s determination on a motion to tax or strike costs will be reversed only for an abuse of discretion.   Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994, 2nd Dist.) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 121.   Item 1—Filing and Motion Fees ($1,379.64)CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(1) Filing, motion, and jury fees.”Plaintiff argues that the filing fees on a motion for summary judgment ($500) should be disallowed because defendant was not the prevailing party on the motion, which had nothing to do with the outcome of this case.As argued in the opposition, the filing fees claimed for the subject  motion appear proper on its face, and plaintiff has failed to establish that the motion was  not reasonably necessary to the defense of the litigation.  Plaintiff cites no authority under which filing fees can be denied simply because the filing party did not prevail on the motion.  Defendant in opposition cites to Rozanova v. Uribe (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 392, 400-401, in which the court of appeal found that although the trial court ultimately declined to grant several motions for which filing fees had been sought as costs, the trial court’s orders sufficiently supported that the subject motions “were a reasonable step by respondents to limit their exposure to defending” themselves in the action, and could be considered “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation” under CCP section 1033.5(c)(2).  Rozanova, at 400.   The motion for summary judgment here appears similarly to represent a reasonable step to limit defendant’s exposure in this case, including its exposure to plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.  The motion to tax the filing fee for the summary judgment motion is denied.  Plaintiff also argues that the balance of the requested items is disorganized, vague, and seem to include electronic fees which were not ordered by the court. The opposition submits a declaration confirming that the claimed filing fees pertain to filing fees for motions required to advance Olympus’ defense, LACourt website fees for appearances which were required during the pandemic, and LACourt reservation fees to reserve hearings, all of which were necessary.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 7]. The court has reviewed the summary submitted with the Memorandum of Costs.  [Attachment 1g].  The court is concerned that the summary prepared by counsel is not ideal, and that the declaration in opposition does not set forth that these fees were incurred or submit invoices or other admissible evidence that they were incurred.   However, the court recognizes that these fees reflect the fees ordinarily charged by the court for the various filings, remote video appearances, and scheduling matters, and the fact that the file reflects that the subject documents and hearings appear in the court file.    The motion to tax these fees accordingly is denied.  Costs sought of $1,379.64 will be awarded in full in the sum of $1,379.64.Item 4—Deposition Costs ($33,929.91)CCP § 1033.5(a)(3)(A) provides that an allowable cost includes:  "Taking, videotaping, and transcribing necessary depositions..."  CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(3)(A) Taking, videotaping, and transcribing necessary depositions, including an original and one copy of those taken by the claimant and one copy of depositions take by the party against whom costs are allowed.”Under CCP § 1033.5 (a)(3)(C), allowable costs include, “Travel expenses to attend depositions.”  Plaintiff argues that these deposition costs were not reasonable and necessary.  Plaintiff also argues that many of the depositions involved persons who lacked knowledge of the case, and involved taking plaintiff’s deposition multiple times, which was not reasonable or necessary.  Plaintiff’s argument that the deposition costs were not reasonable is sufficient to place the claim in issue and shift the burden to defendant to establish the entitlement to these costs.  Such a showing is usually accomplished by the party claiming the costs by submitting with the opposition documentation, such as invoices, billings, or proof of payment, with appropriate details to permit the court to determine that the costs were incurred and were reasonable in amount.  The showing here relies solely on an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs evidently prepared by counsel, which summarizes the costs at issue, without submission of any actual invoices, billings or proof of payment.  While the court is able to confirm from its familiarity with court procedures and the court file in this case the facts included in such a summary in connection with filing fees, the court has no personal familiarity with what occurred in out-of-court depositions in this matter.  The failure to submit proof deprives plaintiff of the opportunity to challenge specific costs claimed, their legitimacy or the reasonableness of the amount charged.   Defendant in the opposition has failed to meet its burden to establish its entitlement to these costs and the costs requested in this item will be stricken in their entirety. Costs requested of $33,929.91 will be stricken and reduced to -0-. Item 14—Fees for Electronic Filing or Service ($5,671.71)CCP section 1033.5(a)(14) provides that allowable costs include:“Fees for the electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service provider if a court requires or orders electronic filing or service of documents.” Plaintiff argues that these fees should not be allowed because there is no evidence they were ordered by the court.   Defendant in opposition states:“12.  In Attachment 14, Olympus included its fees for the electronic filing and service fees for its court filings in the case, which total $5,671.71. Olympus’s electronic filing fees stemmed from a wide variety of motions, including dispositive motions, ex parte applications, and motions to compel. These were all vital components of Olympus’ defense during this lengthy litigation and I took great care to ensure that I did not include any court reporter fees for hearing transcripts. 13. Los Angeles Superior Court rules require all court filings to be filed electronically. Therefore, I used First Legal to perform most of the electronic filings. I could not possibly have performed these electronic filings myself—nor could anyone in my office have reliably performed these electronic filings—particularly considering the volume of pleadings and motions litigated in this case. In addition, First Legal is a reputable and well known attorney service in Los Angeles County, and it consistently has reasonable rates.  Plaintiff has provided no argument or evidence to suggest in any way that First Legal’s rates are anything but reasonable.”[Hoffman Decl., paras. 12, 13].  There is no citation to the LASC rule requiring electronic filing or service in this matter, so that plaintiff’s challenge is sufficient to shift the burden to defendant to establish entitlement to the costs claimed.  Again, such a showing is usually made by the party claiming the costs submitting with the opposition documentation, such as invoices, billings, or proof of payment, with appropriate details to permit the party against whom costs are sought and the court to determine that the costs were incurred and were reasonable in amount.  The showing here relies solely on an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs which summarizes the costs at issue, without submission of any actual invoices, billings or proof of payment. [Attachment 14].  The fees sought are not those charged by the court, but are evidently fees charged by a third party, First Legal, and the court is unfamiliar with, and has been provided no evidence concerning, what fees that entity charges.  There also appear to be charges for items such as courtesy copies.  While the court recognizes that this department does require the submission of courtesy copies, it is not possible from the showing provided to determine that such costs are properly subject to electronic filing or service charges allowable as costs under the statute, or what a reasonable fee would be. The failure to submit proof deprives plaintiff of the opportunity to challenge specific costs claimed, their legitimacy, or the reasonableness of, the amount charged.   Defendant in the opposition has failed to meet its burden to establish its entitlement to these costs and the costs requested in this item will be stricken in their entirety.  Costs requested of $5,671.71 are stricken and reduced to -0-. Item 15—Fees for Hosting Electronic Documents ($1,400)  Under CCP section 1033.5 (a)(15), allowable costs include, “Fees for the hosting of electronic documents if a court requires or orders a party to have documents hosted by an electronic filing service provider.”   Plaintiff argues that these costs are not properly sought here, as the court did not “require or order a party to have documents hosted by an electronic filing service provider.”  The opposition argues that defendant was required throughout discovery and pursuant to agreements of the parties and this court’s orders to produce large quantities of documents which defendant did through the use of an electronic service provider.  [Hoffman Decl., paras. 14-16].  The argument is that defendant could not have possibly performed custodial searches requested and produced documents in the requested format without the use of an e-discovery platform.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 16].   The opposition, however, points to no court order in this matter which required or ordered defendant to have the documents hosted by an electronic service provider, and the court does not recall issuing such an order.  Defendant has failed to establish the entitlement to costs under the language of the statute.  In addition, the claimed costs are again evidenced only by a summary included in an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs, without supporting documentation.   The motion is granted as to this item, and the costs claimed, in the sum of $1,400, is stricken and is reduced to -0-. Item 16—Other ($4,554.49) Plaintiff argues that the costs claimed under the “other” item should be disallowed as not permissible, not allowed, and vague.  Defendant in opposition argues that, evidently according to the summary attached to the memorandum, in this category, Olympus itemizes costs that all relate to either: (1) Olympus’ need to download a document from the LACourt website (e.g., for documents filed by the other parties or the Court prior to Olympus’ involvement in the case); (2) courtesy copies of legal filings that Olympus was required to deliver to the Court, as explicitly ordered in this Court’s standing rules; or (3) preparation of motion in limine or trial binders that were explicitly ordered by the court and on which plaintiff forced Olympus to take the lead.  [Hoffman Decl., ¶ 17, Exs. F, G. Plaintiff argues that these costs should be awarded under Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5(c)(4), which, as set forth above, provides that “Items not mentioned in this section and items assessed upon application may be allowed or denied in the court’s discretion.”  Plaintiff argues that these costs should be awarded because they were absolutely necessary for Olympus to defend itself against Plaintiff’s case—and, in fact, in most instances were ordered by the Court.While the court recognizes that courtesy copies were required by this department, the court does not have before its substantial evidence sufficient to support an exercise of its discretion to award costs in the amounts claimed, which are set forth only in a summary attached to the Memorandum of Costs.  Again, defendant has failed to submit documentation, such as invoices, billings, or proof of payment, with appropriate details to permit the party against whom the costs are claimed or the court to determine that the costs were incurred and were reasonable in amount.   The showing here relies solely on an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs which summarizes the costs at issue, without submission of any actual invoices, billings or proof of payment. [Attachment 16].  The failure to submit proof deprives plaintiff of the opportunity to challenge specific costs claimed, their legitimacy, or the reasonableness of the amount charged.   Defendant in the opposition has failed to meet its burden to establish its entitlement to these costs.  The costs requested in this item are stricken in their entirety.  Cost claimed of $4,554.49 are stricken and reduced to -0-.RULING:Plaintiff Jason Steger’s Motion and Joint Motion to Clarify a Stay Pending Appeal, or in the Alternative to Clarify that Not Paying Discovery Sanctions Will Not Constitute Willful Act of Disobedience and Will Proceed by Way of Normal Post-Judgment Activities is DENIED. Plaintiff Jason Steger’s Joint Motion to Strike and Disallow in Total (1) Memorandum of Costs Filed by Dr. John Kasher and Dr. James Kao on February 2, 2024; (2) Memorandum of Costs Filed by Olympus America, Inc. is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as follows:The Court finds that defendants Dr. John Kasher, Dr. James Kao and Olympus America, Inc were the prevailing parties in this matter entitled to costs.  The Court further finds that defendants have timely served and filed their Memorandum of Costs seeking recoverable costs in this matter. Motion as to defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao:Motion as to Item 1—Filing and Motion Fees—is GRANTED in part. The Court finds that the claim for ex parte fees of $133.00, $165.95 and $216.40 do not appear proper on their face, and no invoices or receipts are submitted, shifting the burden to defendants to justify them, but defendants have failed to do so.Costs claimed of $3,154.60, are reduced by $133.00, $165.95 and $216.40, to $2,639.25. Motion as to Item 2—Jury Fees—is DENIED. This item is not challenged by plaintiff.Costs claimed of $150 are awarded in full as requested. Motion as to Item 4—Deposition Costs—is GRANTED in part. The Court finds that the claim for the deposition costs of deponent expert Tawhod R. Gazi, M.D in the sum of $1,125.00 does not appear proper on its face, as these defendants were awarded the reasonable costs and fees for this deposition as a discovery sanction.  Costs claimed of $18,455.90 are reduced by $1,125.00 to $17,330.90. Motion as to Item 5—Service of Process—is GRANTED.The cost claimed to not appear proper on their face.  The defendants in the opposition do not address this item of costs or meet their burden of justifying these costs. Costs claimed of $11,732.12 are stricken and reduced to -0- Motion as to Item 8—Witness Fees—is GRANTED. The cost claimed for ordinary witness fees do not appear proper on their face, and defendants in the opposition do not explain how these charges are appropriate either as ordinary witness fees or in the amounts claimed, which far exceed the Government Code amounts permitted, and do not meet their burden of justifying these costs. With respect to the costs claimed for expert witness fees, defendants have failed to meet their burden of establishing the existence of a written offer to compromise under CCP section 998, or any of the other elements necessary to establish expert witness fees are available under this section.  The Court will not exercise its discretion to award such fees in this matter.   Costs claimed of $112,652.00 are stricken and reduced to -0- Motion as to Item 11—Court Reporter Fees as Established by Statute—is GRANTED. The cost claimed to not appear proper on their face, and defendants do not explain or demonstrate how these claimed costs are sought for recording of court proceedings in this matter under the applicable statutes, and defendants also fail to submit billings or invoices evidencing this cost. Costs claimed of $3,525.28 are stricken and reduced to -0- Motion as to Item 12—Models, Enlargements and Photocopies of Exhibits—is GRANTED. The cost claimed to not appear proper on their face, given that this matter did not proceed to trial, so that the claimed costs would not have been incurred in connection with models, enlargements and photocopies of materials which were reasonably helpful to the trier of fact.Defendants fail to submit an evidentiary showing sufficient to support any discretionary award of such costs. Costs claimed of $23,926.67 are stricken and reduced to -0- Motion on Item 14—Fees for Electronic Filing or Service—is GRANTED.Plaintiff argues that these fees should not be allowed because there is no evidence they were ordered by the court.  The costs do not appear proper on their face, plaintiff has properly objected on the ground that defendants have failed to make the foundational showing that electronic filing and service was required, shifting the burden to defendants to establish the costs fall under the statutory provision.  Defendants have failed to address this item in their opposition and have otherwise failed to meet their burden. Costs claimed of $11,564.00 are stricken and reduced to -0- Motion on Item 16—Other—is GRANTED. The costs sought do not appear proper on their face, and defendants have failed to establish that the costs claimed are recoverable, as there is no showing or explanation that the receipts attached to the Memorandum of Costs pertain to travel to attend depositions, or that the receipts of delivery or messenger charges would be allowable as an exception to the exclusion in the costs statutes of costs for postage.   Costs claimed of $6,079.48 are stricken and reduced to -0-  Total costs awarded=   (Costs claimed of $191,239.77 (actual total is $191,240.05, used for calculation—difference of $00.28), less $133.00, less $165.95, less $216.40, less $1,125.00, less $11,732.12, less $112,652.00, less $3,525.28, less $23,926.67, less $11,564.00, less $6,079.48) $20,120.15.Motion as to defendant Olympus America Inc.:Motion as to Item 1—Filing and Motion Fees—is DENIED.  Costs claimed of $1,379.64 are awarded in full in the sum of $1,379.64. Motion as to Item 4—Deposition Costs—is GRANTED.Plaintiff has challenged the costs claimed as not reasonable, shifting the burden to defendant to establish the entitlement to these costs, which is usually done by the party claiming the costs submitting with the opposition documentation, such as invoices, billings, or proof of payment, with appropriate details to permit the court to determine that the costs were incurred and were reasonable in amount.  The showing here relies solely on an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs which summarizes the costs at issue, without submission of any actual invoices, billings or proof of payment.  The failure to submit evidence deprives plaintiff of the opportunity to challenge specific costs claimed, their legitimacy or the reasonableness of the amount charged.   Costs claimed of $33,929.91 are stricken and reduced to -0- Motion as to Item 14—Fees for Electronic Filing or Service—is GRANTED.Plaintiff has challenged the claim for these costs, and the failure of defendant to show they were ordered by the court.  This showing shifts the burden on the defendant to establish entitlement to the costs claimed.  Defendant fails to submit a showing that the specific costs claimed were court ordered, and again relies on a summary of the expenses generated by counsel without submitting documentation to permit plaintiff and the court to determine that the costs are properly claimed under statute, were incurred and were reasonable in amount.  Cost claimed of $5,671.71 are stricken and reduced to -0-Motion as to Item 15—Fees for Hosting Electronic Documents—is GRANTED. Plaintiff challenges the propriety of the costs claimed, arguing that the court in this matter did not require or order defendant to have documents hosted by an electronic filing service provider, as required to claim costs for such services under CCP section 1033.5 (a)(15).  Defendant in opposition does not show that there was any requirement or order by the court, so has failed to establish the entitlement to costs under the language of the statute.  The claimed costs are again evidenced only by a summary included in an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs, without supporting documentation.  Claimed costs of $1,400 are stricken and reduced to -0-Motion as to Item 16—Other—is GRANTED.Plaintiff challenges the appropriateness of the costs claimed as not allowable costs and impermissibly vague, shifting the burden to defendant to establish the entitlement to these costs, which is usually done by the party claiming the costs submitting with the opposition documentation, such as invoices, billings, or proof of payment, with appropriate details to permit the party against whom costs are sought and the court to determine that the costs are allowable, were incurred, and were reasonable in amount.  The showing here relies on an attachment to the Memorandum of Costs which summarizes the costs at issue, and defendant in the opposition fails to submit clear indication of the basis for claiming each item of costs, and fails to submit any actual invoices, billings or proof of payment to permit plaintiff to evaluate them or to permit the court to exercise its discretion to allow the claimed sums as recoverable costs. Claimed costs of $4,554.49 are stricken and reduced to -0- Total costs awarded = (Costs claimed of $46,935.75, less $33,929.91, less $5,671.71, less $1,400.00, less $4,554.49) $1,379.64    DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 