 Case Number:  24STCV15083    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



IGNACIO R. MONTES, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL RAY PEDDICORD, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV15083




Hearing Date:


November 12, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’ VERIFIED COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CCP 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP), INCLUDING REQUEST FOR
  ATTORNEY’S FEES AND COSTS IN THE AMOUNT OF $21,165.00
 



            Background
On June 17, 2024,
Plaintiffs Ignacio R. Montes, Maria Montes, Michelle Montes, and dba C&E
Upholstery (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Michael
Ray Peddicord, Gregory Dean Peddicord, and David Allen Eastis (collectively,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges twenty-eight causes of action.  
Defendants now move
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16
to strike each of the causes of action of the Complaint. The motion is
unopposed. 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’
request for judicial notice.  
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint  
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that
they “have been living in the residential property located at 12167 Firestone
Blvd. and operating a business from the commercial space at 12169 Firestone
Blvd., Norwalk, CA, for the last twenty-plus years under a tenancy with the
now-deceased property owner.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) “C & E Custom Upholstery was
established in 1975 by a prior owner and was transferred to Plaintiff Ignacio
on or around 1990. The business has been continuously located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, and remained in that location until 2023.”
(Compl., ¶ 21.) 
“Plaintiffs rented the property by verbal
agreement with Marvin Peddicord on behalf of the owner, Norman Williams, Arlene
Williams, and Williams Appliance. Marvin Peddicord acted as a representative
for the Williams family, to Plaintiffs’ knowledge, not as an owner or co-owner.”
(Compl., ¶ 24.) “Rental payments have been made to Williams Appliance per the…verbal
agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) “At some point, either just before or after Norman
Edwin Williams passed away, the executive contacts for Williams Appliance,
Norwalk Electronics, Arlene Williams, Norman Williams, and Edwin Williams were
changed to members of the Peddicord family.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant Michael
Ray Peddicord, purporting to have acquired the property located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, but with documentation that is either
dubious or not properly filed, filed Unlawful Detainer actions (hereinafter ‘UDs’)
on the two commercial units located at the 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650 against Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “Defendant Michael successfully
evicted Plaintiffs from these units. The Unlawful Detainer case for APN:
8056-007-003 is identified as 23NWUD01174. The Unlawful Detainer case for APN:
8056- 007-004 is identified as 23NWUD01171. These UDs are currently pending
appeal.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “Defendants are harassing Plaintiffs by using a
Writ from a separate completed commercial UD case. This writ is being used to
intimidate and force Plaintiffs out of their residential unit, located at 12167
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, which is situated on an adjacent lot.”
(Compl., ¶ 18.) 
In the first cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation and deceit, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants
engaged in misrepresentation by falsely claiming ownership and authority over
the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, despite
lacking valid documentation or legal standing…This included filing Unlawful
Detainer actions against the Plaintiffs based on dubious or improperly filed
documentation...” (Compl., ¶ 59.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he intent to
defraud by Defendants is evident from their calculated actions to falsely claim
ownership and initiate legal proceedings against Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 61.) 
In the second cause of action or fraudulent
concealment, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants concealed
and suppressed material facts regarding their lack of legal ownership and
authority over the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650. Despite knowing that their claims of ownership were based on dubious or
improperly filed documentation, Defendants intentionally withheld this
information from Plaintiffs…” (Compl., ¶ 68.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’
concealment of their lack of legal ownership and authority was done with the
intent to defraud Plaintiffs. By suppressing this information, Defendants
sought to induce Plaintiffs to vacate the premises and disrupt their business
and residential stability…” (Compl., ¶ 69.) Plaintiffs allege that they “justifiably
relied on Defendants’ representations and the formal nature of the Unlawful
Detainer actions, believing them to be legitimate…This reliance led Plaintiffs
to vacate their business premises and endure ongoing harassment, causing
significant disruption and harm.” (Compl., ¶ 70.) 
In the third cause of action for fraudulent inducement, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Defendants engaged in fraudulent inducement by
falsely representing their ownership and authority over the property located at
12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. They suggested as a fact that they
had legitimate ownership and the right to evict Plaintiffs, despite knowing
this was untrue…Defendants suppressed the true facts regarding their lack of
legal ownership and authority, which they knew to be true…Defendants made these
false representations and suppressions with the intent to deceive Plaintiffs
and induce them to enter into agreements and vacate the property. This is
evidenced by their actions in filing Unlawful Detainer actions and harassing
Plaintiffs to force them out of their residence and business location…”
(Compl., ¶¶ 76-77.) 
In the fourth cause of action for promissory fraud, Plaintiffs allege,
inter alia, that “Defendants made promises to Plaintiffs regarding their
ownership and use of the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650. These promises included assurances that Plaintiffs would be allowed to
remain on the property and operate their business without interference.”
(Compl., ¶ 83.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]t the time these promises were made,
they were false. Defendants did not own the property and they had no intention
of maintaining whatever illegal contract they created. This is evidenced by
Defendants’ subsequent actions to file Unlawful Detainer actions and harass
Plaintiffs into vacating the premises…” (Compl., ¶ 84.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants made these promises with the intent to deceive
Plaintiffs and induce them to continue occupying and paying rent for the
property under false pretenses. Defendants’ actions were calculated to benefit
themselves while causing harm to Plaintiffs, as evidenced by their fraudulent
scheme to take control of the property and misappropriate rental payments…”
(Compl., ¶ 85.) Plaintiffs further allege that “Defendants failed to perform
the promises made, as evidenced by their actions to evict Plaintiffs and
disrupt their business operations…” (Compl., ¶ 87.) 
In the fifth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants
represented to Plaintiffs that they had legal ownership and authority over the
property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, as evidenced by
the filing of Unlawful Detainer actions and subsequent harassment to evict
Plaintiffs…Defendants’ representation was not true, as they lacked proper
documentation and legal standing…Even if Defendants believed they owned the
property, their belief was negligently represented, as evidenced by the rushed
creation of Norwalk Electronics Supply Inc. by Michael to circumvent legal
issues…” (Compl., ¶¶ 93-94.)[1] 
In the sixth cause of action for “conspiracy – fraud,” Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Defendants conspired to defraud Plaintiffs by
falsely claiming ownership and authority over the property located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. This conspiracy involved coordinated
actions to misrepresent their ownership, file Unlawful Detainer actions, and
harass Plaintiffs into vacating the premises…” (Compl., ¶ 102.) 
In the seventh cause of action for interference with prospective
economic advantage, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs had
an established economic relationship with their customers through their
business, C & E Custom Upholstery, located at 12169 Firestone Blvd.,
Norwalk, CA 90650. This relationship was built over decades, providing a
probability of future economic benefit to Plaintiffs…” (Compl., ¶ 109.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants intentionally acted to disrupt Plaintiffs’
economic relationship by filing Unlawful Detainer actions, creating a hostile
environment through harassment, and wrongfully attempting to evict Plaintiffs
from their business premises…These actions were designed to force Plaintiffs
out of their business location and disrupt their economic stability.” (Compl.,
¶ 111.) 
In the eighth cause of action for negligent interference with
prospective economic advantage, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs
had an established economic relationship with their customers through their
business, C & E Custom Upholstery, located at 12169 Firestone Blvd.,
Norwalk, CA 90650. This relationship, built over decades, provided a
probability of future economic benefit to Plaintiffs…” (Compl., ¶¶ 116.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants acted negligently by failing to ensure the
accuracy and legality of their ownership claims and by creating a hostile
environment through harassment and wrongful eviction attempts…Their negligence
is further evidenced by the rush to create Norwalk Electronics Supply Inc. to
circumvent legal issues…” (Compl., ¶ 118.) 
In the ninth cause of action for trespass to land, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “Plaintiffs have a possessory interest in the property located
at 12169 Firestone Blvd. and 12167 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA, having lived
and operated their business there for over twenty years under a tenancy
agreement with the previous owner…Defendants, without permission, entered onto
the property by posting non-related legal documentation on Plaintiffs’
residence and obstructing access to the garage and emergency exits...” (Compl.,
¶¶ 123-124.)[2] 
In the tenth cause of action for harassment, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “Defendants engaged in a continuous course of conduct aimed at
harassing Plaintiffs, which included the filing of Unlawful Detainer actions,
the use of a writ from a separate completed commercial UD case to intimidate
Plaintiffs, and other harassing actions to force Plaintiffs out of their
residential and business properties…This pattern of conduct evidences a
continuity of purpose to unlawfully evict and harass Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶
129.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’ harassing actions included chaining
and locking emergency exits, blocking access to the garage, removing personal
property, and posting non-related legal documentation on Plaintiffs’
residence.” (Compl., ¶ 130.) 
In the eleventh cause of action for trespass to chattels, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Defendants intentionally interfered with
Plaintiffs’ possession of personal property by removing items from the garage
and blocking access to the premises located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk,
CA 90650. This interference was carried out without Plaintiffs’ consent and
included chaining and locking gates…Defendants’ actions impeded Plaintiffs’
ability to access and use their personal property, causing significant
disruption and inconvenience.” (Compl., ¶ 136.) 
In the twelfth cause of action for conversion, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “Plaintiffs had ownership and the right to possession of
personal property stored at their business premises located at 12169 Firestone
Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. This property included essential business items and
personal belongings necessary for the operation of C & E Custom
Upholstery…” (Compl., ¶ 143.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants wrongfully
exercised dominion over Plaintiffs’ property by removing items from the garage
and blocking access to the premises without Plaintiffs’ consent. This wrongful act
included chaining and locking gates, thereby dispossessing Plaintiffs of their
rightful property and preventing them from accessing or using it…” (Compl., ¶
144.)
In the thirteenth cause of action for private nuisance, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Defendants, by their actions and failures to
act, created conditions that interfered with Plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of
their property. These conditions included chaining and locking emergency exits,
blocking access to the garage, removing personal property, and using a writ
from a separate commercial UD case to harass Plaintiffs…Defendants’ conduct was
harmful to Plaintiffs’ health, indecent, offensive to the senses, and an
obstruction to the free use of the property…The conditions created by
Defendants significantly interfered with Plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of their
land. The harassment and obstruction disrupted Plaintiffs’ ability to operate
their business and maintain their residence, causing substantial inconvenience
and distress…” (Compl., ¶¶ 152-153.) 
In the fourteenth cause of action for breach of implied contract,
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs had an implied contract
with Defendants based on the long-term occupancy and use of the property
located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, for both residential and
business purposes. This implied contract was established through the conduct of
the parties, including the consistent payment of rent and the use of the
property for business operations…” (Compl., ¶ 160.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants
breached the implied contract by filing Unlawful Detainer actions, creating a
hostile environment through harassment, and wrongfully attempting to evict
Plaintiffs from their business premises…Additionally, Defendants’ actions to
block access to the property, remove personal property, and misuse legal
processes further constitute breaches of the implied contract…” (Compl., ¶
162.) 
In the fifteenth cause of action for promissory estoppel, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Defendants made promises to Plaintiffs
regarding the continued use and occupancy of the property located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. These promises included assurances that
Plaintiffs could operate their business and reside on the property without
interference…” (Compl., ¶ 167.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he promises made by
Defendants did induce action and forbearance by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs continued
to operate their business, paid rent, and maintained the property based on the expectation
that they would not face wrongful eviction or interference…” (Compl., ¶ 169.)
Plaintiffs allege that “[i]njustice can be avoided only by enforcement of
Defendants’ promises. Plaintiffs have suffered significant harm due to
Defendants’ failure to honor their commitments, including financial losses,
operational disruptions, and emotional distress” (Compl., ¶ 170.) 
In the sixteenth cause of action for breach of implied duty of good
faith and fair dealing, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs
and Defendants entered into an implied contract based on the long-term
occupancy and use of the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650, for both residential and business purposes…” (Compl., ¶ 175.) Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants’ conduct prevented Plaintiffs from receiving the
benefits under the contract. Defendants breached the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing by filing Unlawful Detainer actions, creating a hostile
environment through harassment, and wrongfully attempting to evict Plaintiffs
from their business premises…Additionally, Defendants’ actions to block access
to the property, remove personal property, and misuse legal processes further
constitute breaches of the implied contract…” (Compl., ¶ 178.) 
In the seventeenth cause of action for unjust enrichment, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Defendants received a benefit at the expense
of Plaintiffs by wrongfully claiming ownership and authority over the property
located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650, and collecting rental
payments under false pretenses. Defendants’ actions, including the filing of
Unlawful Detainer actions and harassment to evict Plaintiffs, were based on
dubious or improperly filed documentation…” (Compl., ¶ 184.) Plaintiffs allege
that “Defendants unjustly retained this benefit, causing significant financial
and emotional harm to Plaintiffs. The wrongful eviction and continuous
harassment disrupted Plaintiffs’ business operations and personal lives…”
(Compl., ¶ 185.) 
In the eighteenth cause of action for negligence, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “Defendants owed Plaintiffs a duty of care to manage their
property and interactions with Plaintiffs in a manner that did not cause harm,”
and that “Defendants breached this duty of care by engaging in a series of
negligent actions, including filing Unlawful Detainer actions based on dubious
documentation, creating a hostile environment through harassment, chaining and
locking emergency exits, blocking access to the garage, and wrongfully
attempting to evict Plaintiffs…” 
(Compl.,
¶¶ 190-191.) 
In the nineteenth cause of action for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200,
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants engaged in unlawful,
unfair, and fraudulent business acts or practices by falsely claiming ownership
and authority over the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650.
These acts include filing Unlawful Detainer actions based on dubious
documentation, creating a hostile environment through harassment, chaining and
locking emergency exits, blocking access to the garage, and wrongfully
attempting to evict Plaintiffs…” (Compl., ¶ 197.) Plaintiffs allege that their
“economic injury was directly caused by Defendants’ unfair business practices
and false advertising. Defendants’ fraudulent representations and wrongful
actions led Plaintiffs to continue paying rent and relying on the stability of
their tenancy, only to face ongoing harassment and wrongful eviction attempts.”
(Compl., ¶ 199.) 
In the twentieth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct by harassing Plaintiffs, filing
Unlawful Detainer actions based on dubious documentation, chaining and locking
emergency exits, blocking access to the garage, and wrongfully attempting to
evict Plaintiffs from their residence and business premises located at 12169
Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650.” (Compl., ¶ 203.) Plaintiffs allege that
they “suffered severe emotional distress as a result of Defendants’ outrageous
conduct.” (Compl., ¶ 205.) 
In the twenty-first cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants owed
Plaintiffs a duty of care to manage their property and interactions without
causing harm,” and that “Defendants breached this duty by engaging in a series
of negligent actions, including filing Unlawful Detainer actions based on
dubious documentation, creating a hostile environment through harassment,
chaining and locking emergency exits, blocking access to the garage, and
wrongfully attempting to evict Plaintiffs…” 
(Compl.,
¶¶ 211-212.) 
            In the twenty-second cause of action
for abuse of process, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants
initiated Unlawful Detainer actions against Plaintiffs with an ulterior motive
to wrongfully dispossess them of their business and residential properties.
Defendant Michael, under the pretense of having acquired ownership of the
property, used these legal proceedings to harass and intimidate Plaintiffs…This
improper use of legal process was aimed at evicting Plaintiffs and disrupting
their long-established business operations…” (Compl., ¶ 217.) Plaintiffs allege
that “Defendants committed willful acts in the use of the legal process that
were not proper in the regular conduct of the proceedings. This includes the
misuse of a writ from a separate commercial Unlawful Detainer case to force
Plaintiffs out of their residential unit…Additionally, Defendants chained and
locked emergency exits, blocked access to the garage, and removed personal
property, further demonstrating their misuse of legal procedures and intent to
cause harm…” (Compl., ¶ 218.) 
            In the twenty-third cause of action
for slander of title, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants
published false statements that disparaged Plaintiffs’ title to the property
located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. These statements were made
through the filing of Unlawful Detainer actions and other communications
indicating Defendants’ wrongful claim of ownership and authority over the
property…” (Compl., ¶ 223.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he statements made by
Defendants were false and disparaging to Plaintiffs’ title. Defendants’ claims
of ownership and authority were not supported by valid documentation or legal
rights, and their actions directly contradicted Plaintiffs’ established
occupancy and use of the property…” (Compl., ¶ 225.) 
            In the twenty-fourth cause of action
for ejectment, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants’
possession of the subject property is wrongful. Despite winning the Unlawful
Detainer actions, which are currently on appeal, Defendants have used dubious
and improperly filed documentation to assert their claims over the
property…These actions have created a cloud on Plaintiffs’ title and have been
used to harass and intimidate Plaintiffs…” (Compl., ¶ 231.) Plaintiffs allege
that they “seek a judgment for possession of the property, to be executed by
the sheriff, or a judgment requiring Defendants to perfect the title and
deliver possession of the property.” (Compl., ¶ 233.)
            In the twenty-fifth cause of action
for “adverse possession – color of title,” Plaintiffs allege, inter alia,
that “Plaintiffs have satisfied the legal requirements for adverse possession
under color of title regarding the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd.,
Norwalk, CA 90650.” (Compl., ¶ 241.) Plaintiffs allege that they “have
satisfied all legal requirements for adverse possession under color of title
and are entitled to the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650. Defendants’ claims to the property are without merit, and Plaintiffs
seek a judgment to perfect their title and secure their rightful ownership.”
(Compl., ¶ 248.) 
            In the twenty-sixth cause of action
for quiet title, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs seek to
quiet title to the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA
90650, against any and all claims of Defendants. Plaintiffs have held
possession and use of the property for over twenty years, continuously and
openly, under a good faith belief in their right to the property. This belief
was based on verbal agreements with the now-deceased property owner and
consistent payment of rent to the recognized owners, Williams Appliance…”
(Compl., ¶ 251.) Plaintiffs allege that they “request the Court to declare that
Defendants have no valid claim to the property and that Plaintiffs hold
rightful title.” (Compl., ¶ 254.)
In the twenty-seventh cause of action for accounting, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “[a] relationship that requires accounting
exists between Plaintiffs and Defendants. Plaintiffs have made regular rental
payments and other financial contributions for the maintenance and operation of
the property located at 12169 Firestone Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650…These payments
were made under the belief that Defendants had a legitimate claim to the
property, which has now been disputed. Given the nature of these financial
transactions and the alleged misrepresentations by Defendants, an accounting is
necessary to determine the exact amounts owed and to whom they should be paid.”
(Compl., ¶ 258.) 
In the twenty-eighth cause of action for declaratory relief,
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief
to remove any claims Defendants have to the property located at 12169 Firestone
Blvd., Norwalk, CA 90650. The controversy involves the legal rights and duties
of Plaintiffs and Defendants concerning the property, and the need for a
judicial declaration to resolve the ongoing disputes.” (Compl., ¶ 264.)  Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’ claims to
the property are based on fraudulent representations and lack legal foundation.”
(Compl., ¶ 265.) Plaintiffs allege that “[g]iven the ongoing fraudulent conduct
of Defendants and Plaintiffs’ established adverse possession, Plaintiffs seek
declaratory relief to remove any claims Defendants have to the property and to
affirm Plaintiffs’ rightful ownership.” (Compl., ¶ 267.)
B.     Legal Standard
The anti-SLAPP statute is
“a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of
free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process
and resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal
quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for
determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public
participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether the defendant
has established that the challenged claim arises from protected speech. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
C.     Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the
defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP statute is
that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the defendant in
furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.) An act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech includes the following:
 
“(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the
allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation
for the claims.” (Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity.” (Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89
(emphasis in original).) In making this determination, the
Court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating
the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.) 
In
the motion, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s claims arise from Defendants’
petitioning activity, including filing Unlawful Detainer (UD) actions and
making statements related to those proceedings. Such conduct is expressly
protected under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16, subdivision (e).” (Mot. at p. 6:16-18.) Defendants cite to Navellier v. Sletten, supra, 29 Cal.4th
at page 90, where the California Supreme Court found that “[t]he
constitutional right of petition encompasses the basic act of filing
litigation. Sletten is being sued because of the affirmative counterclaims
he filed in federal court. In fact, but for the federal lawsuit
and Sletten’s alleged actions taken in connection with that litigation,
plaintiffs’ present claims would have no basis. This action therefore falls squarely
within the ambit of the anti-SLAPP statute’s arising from prong.” (Internal
quotations and citation omitted.)[3]

The Court finds that Defendants have shown that Plaintiffs’ first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh,
twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth,
nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-first, twenty-second, twenty-third, and
twenty-fourth causes of action arise from protected activity, namely, the
filing and prosecution of the subject unlawful detainer actions. (Compl., ¶
16.) Allegations of these causes of action are set forth above. As discussed, “[t]he prosecution of an
unlawful detainer action indisputably is protected activity within the meaning
of section 425.16. The constitutional right to
petition…includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise seeking
administrative action.” (Birkner v. Lam, supra,
156 Cal.App.4th at p. 281 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Moreover,
Plaintiffs do not oppose the instant motion, and thus do not dispute that the
foregoing causes of action arise from protected activity for purposes of the
anti-SLAPP statute. 
The Court does not find that Defendants
have shown that the twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh, or
twenty-eighth causes of action arise from protected activity. Allegations of
these causes of action are also discussed above in the “Allegations of the
Complaint” section of this Order. 
Based on the foregoing,
the first prong of the two-step anti-SLAPP analysis is satisfied as to the first
through twenty-fourth causes of action of the Complaint, and the burden now shifts to Plaintiffs on prong two¿with respect to
these causes of action. 
D.    Prong Two – Probability of Prevailing 
“[P]laintiff must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Premier Medical Management
Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 476 [internal quotations and emphasis
omitted].) In making the prong two determination, “the court shall
consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).) “The court does not, however, weigh [defendant’s] evidence
against the plaintiff’s, in terms of either credibility or
persuasiveness. Rather, the defendant’s evidence is considered with a view
toward whether it defeats the plaintiff’s showing as a matter of law, such as
by establishing a defense or the absence of a necessary element.” (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cannot establish a
probability of prevailing on the merits of each of the causes of action of the
Complaint. As discussed, the
burden now shifts to Plaintiffs on prong two with respect to the first
through twenty-fourth causes of action of the Complaint. 
With respect to the first through sixth causes of
action, Defendants assert that “communications made in connection with judicial
proceedings are protected under California’s litigation privilege. (Civ. Code, § 47(b)). This bars Plaintiffs’ fraud
claims that are based on statements or actions taken during litigation or
related negotiations.” (Mot. at p. 8:24-27.) As to the seventh and eighth
causes of action, Defendants similarly argue that “Defendants’ actions are
protected by litigation privileges…” (Mot. at p. 12:27.) 
As to the tenth and thirteenth causes of action,
Defendants assert that “[a]s with the harassment claim, the private nuisance
claim is also protected by the litigation privilege…” (Mot. at p. 15:22-23.) Defendants
also assert that the ninth cause of action is barred by the litigation
privilege (Mot. at pp. 17:26), and that as to the eleventh and twelfth causes
of action, Defendants’ actions “are protected by the litigation privilege.”
(Mot. at pp. 18:11; 18:22.)
Similarly, as to the fourteenth, fifteenth,
sixteenth, and seventeenth causes of action of the Complaint, Defendants argue
that their actions “are protected by litigation privilege.” (Mot. at pp. 21:11;
21:21; 22:3; 22:9-10.) As to the nineteenth cause of action, Defendants argue
that their “actions are shielded by the litigation privilege…” (Mot. at p.
26:3.) In addition, as to the twentieth and twenty-first causes of action,
Defendants argue that their “actions are protected by the litigation privilege.”
(Mot. at p. 27:16-17.) As to the twenty-second cause of action, Defendants
assert that “the litigation privilege under Civil
Code section 47(b) bars any claim for abuse of process based on actions
taken within the scope of judicial proceedings.” (Mot. at p. 29:21-22.) 
As discussed above, the Court finds that Defendants
have shown that these causes of arise from protected activity, namely,
the filing and prosecution of the subject unlawful detainer actions. 
Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part that “[a] privileged
publication or broadcast is one made:…(b) In any (1) legislative proceeding, (2)
judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or
(4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized by law and
reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2…”  
“California’s litigation privilege springs from Civil Code section 47. This statute provides that
‘A privileged publication or broadcast is one made: [¶] (a) In the proper
discharge of an official duty [or] [¶] (b) In any (1) legislative proceeding,
(2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law…’…The litigation privilege
applies to any communication made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings by
litigants or other participants to achieve the objects of the litigation that
has some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Paglia & Associates Construction, Inc. v.
Hamilton (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th
318, 324 [emphasis omitted].) The Court notes that “[t]he
litigation privilege is also relevant to the second step in the anti-SLAPP
analysis in that it may present a substantive defense a plaintiff must overcome
to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Flatley
v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
323.) “Pleadings and process in a case are generally viewed as
privileged communications.” (Navellier v. Sletten,
supra, 106 Cal.App.4th 763, 770.) 
Plaintiffs
do not oppose the motion, and thus do not dispute that the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh,
twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, nineteenth,
twentieth, twenty-first, or twenty-second causes of action of the Complaint are
barred by the litigation privilege. 
The Court notes that “[t]he moving party
bears the initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing the plaintiff’s
cause of action arises from the defendant’s free speech or petition activity…If
the defendant establishes a prima facie case, then the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to establish a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim, i.e., make a prima facie showing of facts which would, if proved at
trial, support a judgment in plaintiff’s favor.” (Kyle v. Carmon (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 901, 907 [internal quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted, underline added.)
The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have met this burden here. As
discussed, Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion and thus do not address Defendants’
arguments concerning the litigation privilege. 
As to the eighteenth cause of action for negligence, Plaintiffs note
that “[t]he elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established.
They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of
such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v.
County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917 [internal quotations and emphasis omitted].) Plaintiffs
argue that “[t]he allegations in the Complaint broadly assert that Defendants
breached a duty of care by engaging in actions such as filing unlawful detainer
actions and creating a hostile environment. However, Plaintiffs cannot present
evidence necessary to establish a legal duty that Defendants have breached.”
(Mot. at p. 23:20-23.) Plaintiffs do not oppose Defendants’ motion and thus do
not address this point or provide any evidence to support their negligence
cause of action. As discussed, “[t]he moving party
bears the initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing the plaintiff’s
cause of action arises from the defendant’s free speech or petition activity…If
the defendant establishes a prima facie case, then the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to establish a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim, i.e., make a prima facie showing of facts which would, if proved at
trial, support a judgment in plaintiff’s favor.” (Kyle v. Carmon, supra,
71 Cal.App.4th at p. 907 [internal quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted.) The Court does
not find that Plaintiffs have met such burden here. 
As to the twenty-third cause of action for
slander of title, Plaintiffs cite to Howard v.
Schaniel (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d
256, 263, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[s]lander of title, as
recognized by the law, may be defined to be defamation of title to property,
real or personal, by one who falsely and maliciously disparages the title
thereto, and thereby causes the owner thereof some special pecuniary loss or
damage.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Defendants assert that here, “[t]he
Complaint does not contain specific factual allegations showing that Defendants
acted with the requisite malice.” (Mot. at p. 32:12-13.) Indeed, the
twenty-third cause of action does not appear to contain any allegations
concerning malice. Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion, and thus do not dispute
this point. 
Lastly, as to the twenty-fourth cause of
action for ejectment, Defendants cite to Payne
& Dewey v. Treadwell (1860) 16
Cal. 221, 244, where the California Supreme Court noted, “[i]t seems
to us that the substance of a complaint in ejectment under our practice is
this: A owns certain real property, or some interest in it; the defendant has
obtained possession of it, and withholds the possession from him. If the
defendant’s holding rests upon any existing right, he should be compelled to
show it affirmatively, in defense. The right of possession accompanies the
ownership, and from the allegation of the fact of ownership--which is the
allegation of seizin in ordinary language--the right of present possession is
presumed as a matter of law.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Defendants assert
that “for an ejectment action, Plaintiffs must allege a superior right to
possession…Plaintiffs admit they were evicted by the Court’s judgment and are
not in actual possession at the time of the alleged trespass.” (Mot. at p. 33:7-11.)
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant Michael successfully
evicted Plaintiffs from these units.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) As discussed, Plaintiffs
do not oppose the instant motion and thus do not dispute Defendants’ argument
that the ejectment cause of action is deficient. Plaintiffs do not provide
evidence supporting this cause of action. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to establish a probability of
prevailing on their first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth,
sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-first,
twenty-second, twenty-third, and twenty-fourth causes of action. 
E.     Attorney’s Fees 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision
(c)(1), “[e]xcept as provided in
paragraph (2), in any action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant
on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s
attorney’s fees and costs. If the court finds that a
special motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney’s fees
to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.” 

In the motion, Defendants state that they “request
that the Court order granting this motion also include a directive that
Plaintiffs pay Defendants’ attorneys’ fees and costs in bringing this special
motion to strike.” (Mot. at p. 37:8-10.) Because of the mixed outcome of the
anti-SLAPP motion, the Court reserves its determination on the question of
attorney’s fees pending a noticed motion on the issue of which party is the
prevailing party and what attorney’s fees and costs are recoverable. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion
to strike is granted as to the first through twenty-fourth causes of
action of the Complaint. Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as to the twenty-fifth through twenty-eighth
causes of action of the Complaint. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this Order.  
 
DATED:  November 12, 2024                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


