  Case Number:  BC720469    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  57 TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE OF DEFENDANT ELIAS AZIZ-LAVIMIL # 1   GRANTED on May 17, 2024MIL # 2   Exclude Testimony by Plaintiffs' Experts Regarding Any Damages Caused by Aziz-Lavi and the Amount of Any Such DamagesDenied.     This MIL would preclude the experts from testifying that the Defendants writ large, include Aziz-Lavi, caused the amount of damages to which expert Renee Howdeshell testified.     MIL # 3  Granted on April 12, 2204MIL # 4   Exclude Evidence of Plaintiffs' Conspiracy Claim This is not a proper motion in limine.  It is the stuff of a motion for summary adjudication, which the Court denied last month. MIL # 5  Exclude Expert Testimony of Ziegler  Regarding Aziz-Lavi's Alleged Breach of Fiduciary Duty Denied.  Whether Aziz-Lavi owed a duty to Plaintiffs is a legal question for the Court.  He did.  It is a fiduciary duty.   Ziegler can testify that Aziz-Lavi breached that duty even though Plaintiffs are not suing him for breach of fiduciary duty.  Her testimony speaks to Plaintiff's claim for negligence against Aziz-Lavi, one element of which is whether he breached a duty owed to Plaintiffs. MIL # 6   Exclude Evidence  Regarding
Subpoena to Aziz-Lavi and His Untimely Response Thereto. Denied. Sweeps too
broadly   MIL would preclude Plaintiffs
evidence that the documents Aziz-Lavi produced were produced.  Denial of this MIL is not in conflict with
the Court’s ruling grant MIL # 1.MIL # 7  Exclude Testimony
by Plaintiffs’ Experts That Was Not Included In Their Deposition Testimony or
Designations Denied.  This is not a
proper subject of a motion in limine for it simply seeks an order telling the
experts that they have to comply with the law governing the scope of expert
testimony at trial.  If Aziz-Lavi believes
that the Plaintiffs’ experts are not comply with that law, he can make that
objection at specific testimony offered at trial. MIL  #  8 Withdrawn.  Denied
without prejudice. MIL # 9   There was no # 9 MIL # 10  Exclude
Evidence Related to Allegation that Aziz-Lavi Incorporate Athletix Fabrics for
the Hersel Parties Denied. It is for the jury to decide whether Aziz-Lavi,
through his son, did this incorporation. MIL # 11   Exclude
Evidence that Aziz-Lavi Was a Business Advisor To the Plaintiffs Denied.  At this point,
it is for the jury to hear the evidence bearing on this issue.    MIL # 12   Exclude
Village Elder Evidence Denied.    Same as MIL
# 11. MIL # 13  Exclude
Evidence Regarding Any Conspiracy Engaged in By Aziz-Lavi Beyond Conspiring to
Violate Hersel’s Fiduciary Duty Denied.  This is an
improper MIL.  If Aziz-Lavi believes that
Plaintiffs offer testimony or evidence at trial that strays beyond the allegations
in Plaintiffs’ complaint as to the conspiracy claim, he can object to that specific
testimony or evidence        

 