  Case Number:  23TRCV02210    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
   Wednesday,
September 11, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 12
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Saima
Aziz v. Starbucks Corporation, et al.   
23TRCV02210
1.      Starbucks Corporation’s Motion for Summary Judgment,
or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Starbucks Corporation’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is denied.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on July 10, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff slipped and fell on property owned or
controlled by Defendants. Plaintiff alleges causes of action for General
Negligence and Premises Liability.
 
Objections
 
Defendants’ Objections
 
Objections 1 to 11 are overruled. Defendant seeks to
object to matters set forth in the separate statement of facts rather than actual
evidence.
 
Objections 12 to 22 are moot. Since the burden did not
shift to Plaintiff, the Court need not consider Plaintiff’s evidence submitted
in opposition. However, the Court notes that as to the objection with respect
to the timeliness of the filing and service of the exhibits, the Court would
have considered a continuance had Defendant requested one. However, it appears
that Defendant was able to file and serve a timely Reply addressing their substantive
issues with the exhibits. 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that
there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit
to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to
a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” CCP § 437c(f)(1).
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s
Complaint on the grounds that there is no triable issue of material fact. Defendant
also purports to move for summary judgment, or, in the alternative summary
adjudication “on the grounds that:”  
“Issue Number 1: Ms. Aziz’s causes of action for
general negligence and premises liability fail, as a matter of law, because a
dangerous condition did not exist in the parking lot and Starbucks did not owe
Ms. Aziz a duty of care. 
Issue Number 2: Ms. Aziz’s causes of action for
general negligence and premises liability fail, as a matter of law, because the
white pavement marker upon which Ms. Aziz struck her foot was open and obvious.

Issue Number 3: Ms. Aziz’s causes of action for
general negligence and premises liability fail, as a matter of law, because the
duty to reasonably inspect and maintain the premises in a reasonably safe
condition is immaterial where no dangerous condition existed.” (Notice of
Motion, page 2, lines 3-14.)
 
The Court notes that with the purported issues 1 to 3,
rather than a procedurally proper mechanism to adjudicate “causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty,” the purported motion for summary
adjudication provides three separate reasons why the two causes
of action should be adjudicated. This is not a procedurally proper motion for
summary adjudication. It is simply a motion to attempt to adjudicate the two
causes of action based on these three separate reasons.
 
“Plaintiff's claims for premises liability and
negligence rest on the same elements—namely, (1) a legal duty of care, (2)
breach of that duty, and (3) proximate cause resulting in injury.” Martinez
v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 517.
 
Defendant has failed to submit competent evidence to
meet its “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party [by
showing] that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2). Therefore, the burden does
not shift to Plaintiff to “show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP §
437c(p)(2).  
 
The only evidence submitted by Defendant was Defendant
counsel’s declaration and exhibits attached. The exhibits included the
Complaint, a transcript of Plaintiff’s deposition, photos produced by Plaintiff
during her deposition, and Plaintiff’s responses to Special Interrogatories. None
of the matters set forth in these exhibits provide competent evidence to show
that no dangerous condition existed on the property or that the condition was
open and obvious. Instead, the evidence submitted by Defendant simply provides
a short cogent distillation of the facts of the incident as relayed by
Plaintiff. 
 
Apparently, Defendant believes that by simply relaying
these facts and showing the photos taken by Plaintiff after the fall, the Court
can or must discern, as a matter of law, on its own, that the condition was not
dangerous or conversely open and obvious. However, Defendant provides no actual
evidence to support this position. Defendant did not provide a declaration from
an individual who has competence and knowledge to testify as to these matters who
states that he or she has reviewed all the evidence and then provides a
statement concluding that the condition was not dangerous or conversely open
and obvious with the underlying factual reasoning for this conclusion. The
Court notes that, in contrast, in fact, Plaintiff provided evidence to support
her conclusion that the condition was dangerous in the form of the declarations
of Mark J. Burns and Boyce Oandasan. 
 
Apparently, Defendant believes that simply because
Plaintiff had visited the store before, and that weather, wetness on the ground,
or cleanliness may not have been a factor in the incident, it must mean that
the condition was not dangerous.  In
addition, Defendant apparently believes that the raised white pavement markers
must be deemed by the Court, as a matter of law, as not dangerous. Further, Defendant
apparently believes that simply by showing the Court the photographs, the Court
must conclude that the condition was open and obvious. The Court cannot act as
Defendant’s own expert and simply adopt Defendant’s counsel’s position. Defendant
must present competent evidence that supports the positions and conclusions
presented by Defendant. As mentioned above, in contrast to Defendant, Plaintiff
did present evidence from an individual with competency to testify as to these
matters stating that the pavement markers were dangerous based on the height, lack
of contrast with the white line, and lack of warning. (Decl., Mark J. Burns).
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment or, alternatively, motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.