 Case Number:  24TRCV01321    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                      Wednesday, September 11, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                        Calendar No. 11 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Dorothy E. Parrish, et al. v. Simla
Villas, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV03611
1.      Simla Villas, Inc., et al.’s Petition to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Action
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Simla Villas, Inc., et al.’s Petition
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on
October 30, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent,
Dorothy E. Parrish, suffered injuries and eventually died while in the care of Defendants.
 Plaintiffs set forth the following
causes of action: 1. Negligence/Willful Misconduct 2. Elder Abuse and Neglect;
3. Wrongful Death.   
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiffs’ objections 1 to 4 are
overruled.
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to the FAA and CCP 1281.4 on the
grounds that Plaintiffs executed an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiffs
are bound to arbitrate the claims alleged in the Complaint.
 
Defendants attached as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Simla Mehta the purported arbitration
agreement that was signed by an individual named Daniel Parrish on April 12,
2021. The arbitration provision states, in relevant part, as follows: “It is in
the interest of both the facility and the resident that any and all disputes or
claims against the facility or its employees be resolved fairly and quickly.
Any controversy or claim or relating to this contract, or the breach thereof,
shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration
Association.” (Ex. 1, page 33.) 
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration and to stay the
civil action based on the Plaintiffs’ decedent’s purported son and
attorney-in-fact, Daniel Parrish’s signature on the subject arbitration
agreement. Defendant acknowledges that the Plaintiffs’ decedent did not sign the
arbitration agreement. 
 
The following portion of the analysis applies solely
to the first and second causes of action and not the third cause of action for
Wrongful Death which belongs solely to Daniel E. Parrish, in his individual
capacity, and Sean Flavin, an individual. The analysis with respect to the
third cause of action will be addressed near the end of this ruling.
 
A person is not the patient’s authorized agent simply
by virtue of being the patient’s next of kin. 
Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center,
Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 302 (holding that the patient’s daughters
had no authority to sign arbitration agreement even though they were next of
kin where there was no evidence that she had signed a durable power of attorney
despite the fact that she was comatose at admission).  Similarly, a patient who signs a power of
attorney form after a family member already signed an arbitration
agreement for her does not automatically ratify the earlier arbitration
agreement.  Flores v. Evergreen At San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581,
588 (holding that husband could not bind wife to the arbitration agreement
because there was no evidence showing that the wife gave her express or implied
consent to have husband act as her agent); (emphasis added). 
 
Here, however, there is no dispute that a power of
attorney was executed and notarized on June 5, 2015. (Plaintiffs’ Ex. B.)  Thus, unlike Flores, this document was
executed nearly six years prior to the execution of the subject arbitration
agreement. However, Plaintiffs contend that the durable power of attorney is
ineffective because, on page 2, the line naming the actual agent was left
blank. There is no dispute that the portion just above this section requiring
Daniel E. Parrish to name himself and to sign was executed properly.
 
In Torres v. Torres (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th
870, the respective parties contested the validity of a power of attorney. In
that case, the grantor of the power of attorney merely placed an “X” on the
line which conferred the powers of attorney. The Court of Appeal held that,
while the form may not have substantially complied with the statutory form, the
form did substantially comply with California Law, specifically Prob. Code § 4121.
The Court stated that the form that was executed did substantially comply with
the statute and there was no evidence of fraud, undue influence, or incapacity.
 
Prob. Code, § 4121 states:
“A power of attorney is legally sufficient if all of
the following requirements are satisfied:
(a) The power of attorney contains the date of its
execution.
(b) The power of attorney is signed either (1) by the
principal or (2) in the principal's name by another adult in the principal's
presence and at the principal's direction.
(c) The power of attorney is either (1) acknowledged
before a notary public or (2) signed by at least two witnesses who satisfy the
requirements of Section 4122.”
 
Here, the power of attorney complies with the all the
sections of the statutory provision noted above. There is no evidence of fraud,
undue influence, or incapacity (at the time of the making). In addition, the
California Power of Attorney for Health Care, which was apparently executed on
the exact same date, specifically names the same authorized agent and alternate
agents.
 
Thus, the Court determines that the California General
Durable Power of Attorney, attached as Exhibit B, to the declaration of Daniel
E. Parrish sufficiently establishes his authority to sign the arbitration
agreement on behalf of decedent as her agent at the time of signing the
arbitration agreement. 
 
Because the moving party met
its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause with
respect to the claims of the Plaintiffs, the burden shifts to Plaintiffs to
show that the arbitration clause should not be enforced as to these claims. Rice,
supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
arbitration clause is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.  A court can invalidate an arbitration
agreement when it is unconscionable or against public policy.  See,
Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two
elements:  procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability.  
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive' element, the former focusing on
‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results. 
The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability." But they need not be present in the same degree.
Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at
114.      
 
“The traditional standard of
unconscionability . . . is that the inequality amounting to fraud must be so
strong and manifest as to shock the conscience and confound the judgment of any
man of common sense.   Subsequent
decisions have defined an unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms,
such as a contract that no man in his senses and not under delusion would make
on the one hand, and as no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Procedural unconscionability
may be established by showing oppression and surprise.  Oppression occurs where the parties have
unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of meaningful
negotiations.  Surprise recognizes the
extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden. 
 
 “In many cases of adhesion contracts, the
weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also any realistic
opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he must either
adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have elements of an
adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
Plaintiffs fail to meet their
burden to establish unconscionability. To support the procedural
unconscionability argument, Plaintiffs states that the arbitration clause was
not adequately explained, and that Plaintiffs were not given a choice to
negotiate. Plaintiffs also contend that the AAA rules were referred to but not
attached.  Defendants have no obligation
to highlight, explain, or discuss the terms of the arbitration agreement as any
such requirement would be contrary to the FAA. Sanchez v. Valencia Holding
Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 914-15. As to the failure to attach AAA
rules, the following passage in Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472 is instructive: “Plaintiff does not argue that there are
any other provisions in the Agreement that would support a finding of
procedural unconscionability. Nor does she identify any feature of the AAA
rules that prevent fair and full arbitration. Thus, we find the failure to
attach the AAA rules, standing alone, is insufficient grounds to support a
finding of procedural unconscionability.” Id.
“[C]ourts, including ours,
have used various nonexclusive formulations to capture the notion that
unconscionability requires a substantial degree of unfairness beyond a
simple old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important.
Commerce depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed
written contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by
complaining that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all
one-sided contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various
intensifiers in our formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’
‘unreasonably favorable.’ The ultimate issue in every case is
whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all
relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold enforcement.” Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations
and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). 
 
The Court determines that
Plaintiffs have failed to establish procedural unconscionability.
 
As noted above, both
procedural and substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision. As
noted, Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence to support the procedural
unconscionability element. Thus, the Court need not even address the
substantive unconscionability arguments. However, Plaintiffs did not establish
substantive unconscionability.
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
agreement is one-sided and only applies to claims made by the Plaintiffs.
However, the plain language belies this argument. The agreement specifically
states: “Any controversy or claim or relating to this contract, or the breach
thereof, shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American
Arbitration Association.” Certainly, claims made by and against the Plaintiffs
would be governed by the agreement as those would be considered “any”
controversy. Plaintiffs also argue that the agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it requires each side to bear their own costs of
arbitration. Plaintiffs rely upon Bickel v. Sunrise Assisted Living (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1, 13. Here, however,
the agreement specifically notes the holding of this case and provides language
acknowledging the responsibility of the facility for potential attorneys’ fees:
“Attorney’s fees would be void to the extent that a claim was brought on an
elder abuse case. In the event of elder abuse cases, the facility is
responsible to provide an award of reasonable attorney’s fees as those fees are
not waivable. (See Bickel v. Sunrise Assisted Living (2012) 206 Cal.App.5th).
(sic)” (Defendant’s Ex. 1, p. 34). 
 
Thus, the arbitration
agreement is not substantively unconscionable.
 
The following analysis
applies solely to the Wrongful Death cause of action. Defendants acknowledge
that this cause of action is not subject to the arbitration provision.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c)
provides an exception to arbitration when:
“A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
further provides:
“If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement
and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or
special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
Thus, a court may refuse to
enforce arbitration if it determines that a party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out of the
same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. California Code of
Civil Procedure §1281.2(c). Here, it is undisputed that non-parties to the
arbitration agreement, Daniel E. Parrish, individually, and Sean Flavin, an
individual, are parties to the instant action. However, Plaintiffs have not
adequately identified that there is a significant potential of conflicting
rulings on common issues of fact and law between the parties to the arbitration
agreement and these third parties. Thus, the proper course herein would be to
stay the pending court action and proceed to arbitration as to Defendants and
Plaintiff Dorothy E. Parrish, Deceased, by and through her
Successor-in-Interest, Daniel Parrish pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c).  
 
Therefore, Defendants’ Petition to Compel Arbitration
and to Stay Action is granted, in part.
 
Arbitration is ordered between Plaintiff Dorothy E.
Parrish, Deceased by and through her Successor-in-Interest, Daniel Parrish and
Defendants Simla Villas, Inc. dba Simla Villas Redondo Beach and Simla Mehta. 
 
The court action, including the third cause of action
brought by Daniel E. Parrish, individually, and Sean Flavin, an individual, is
hereby ordered stayed pending arbitration. 

 
An OSC re: status of arbitration is set for
____________.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.