 Case Number:  23TTVB00717    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
BONNIE
  BUSK, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00717




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
EQUITY
  RESIDENTIAL, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 5,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Equity
Residential Management, L.L.C.
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Bonnie Busk
Motion to Strike
Portions of FAC
 
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.  The court had
continued the hearing to allow plaintiff to file an opposition.
RULING
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH
20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to punitive damages. 
The motion is DENIED as to “In addition, Plaintiffs are entitled to
attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to California Civil Code section 1942”
contained in para. 39
BACKGROUND
            On March 10, 2023, Bonnie Busk filed
a complaint against Equity Residential and Equity Residential, LLC for (1)
negligent breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) intentional breach of
implied warranty of habitability (3) nuisance (negligence), (4) nuisance
(intentional), (5) negligence, (6) IIED, (7) breach of implied covenant of
quiet use and enjoyment, (8) negligent violation of statutory duties, (9)
intentional violation of statutory duties, and (10) retaliation/constructive
eviction.
            On May 30, 2023, defendant filed a
stipulation regarding named defendants that Equity Residential Management,
L.L.C. is the proper defendant.
            On June 1, 2023, plaintiff dismissed
Equity Residential.
            On June 1, 2023, plaintiff filed a
FAC for (1) negligent breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) nuisance
(negligent), (3) negligence, (4) breach of implied covenant of quiet use and
enjoyment, (5) negligent violation of statutory duties, and (6)
retaliation/constructive eviction.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  (b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is
any of the following:  (1) An allegation
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means
‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
Civil Code §3294(b) states: “With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal
issued a peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking
plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking
punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any
factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice”).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Equity Residential Management, L.L.C. requests that the court strike “intentionally”
at para. 8, “willfully, knowingly, and purposefully” at para. 36, “intended to”
at para. 36, para. 39, and prayer for punitive damages.
The FAC alleges that in March 2021,
during her tenancy, plaintiff reported her concern that there might be mold as
a result of a prior leak in or about the premises.  In response, defendants’ team inspected the
premises and found no evidence of any leak or moisture and only some growth on
a living room chair, which defendants cleaned. 
Defendants attributed her problems to humidity in the apartment.  Defendants recommended that plaintiff run her
air conditioning or open her windows to properly ventilate the unit.  Then, in July 2021, plaintiff again reported
her concern that there might be mold in the premises.  In response, defendants’ team again inspected
the premises and found no evidence of any leak, moisture, or mold therein,
again attributing her problems to humidity in the apartment.  Defendants recommended, as before, that
plaintiff open her windows to properly ventilate the unit.  And in September 2021, plaintiff again
reported her concern that there might be mold in the premises.  In response, defendants’ team again inspected
the premises and found no evidence of any leak or moisture, again attributing
her problems to humidity in the apartment. 
FAC, ¶7.  By September 2021,
plaintiff, then 79 years old, became extremely lethargic, had difficulty
breathing and was physically incapable of any activity.  Her condition had deteriorated to such an
extent that she had to be transported to the hospital due to pressure in her
chest.  In addition, her pet dog nearly
died, and began suffering from allergies, hair loss and lethargy, requiring
numerous visits to a vet.  Thereafter, in
mid-September 2021, plaintiff engaged a laboratory to inspect the premises, as
a result of which the presence of microbial contaminants, specifically
Chaetomium and Penicillium/Aspergillus were, for the first time during
plaintiff’s tenancy, detected inside and affecting the premises.  As a result, plaintiff was forced to vacate
the premises.  At all times during
plaintiff’s tenancy, defendants either knew or should have known of the existence
of said water intrusion and moisture leaks, but intentionally, recklessly, or
negligently omitted to advise plaintiff of said conditions.  Id., ¶8.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as they do
not show that defendant acted with malice, fraud, or oppression.  Defendant asserts that plaintiff has not
alleged any supporting specific facts for her allegations, such as that there
was in fact a water intrusion or moisture leak, where it was located, and how
defendant knew or should have known about it. 
Further, defendant contends, plaintiff alleges that each time that she
complained of possible mold, defendants’ team inspected the apartment for a
possible water intrusion and did not find one. 
Defendant also argues that the FAC lacks adequate allegations that any
corporate officer, director, or managing agent of defendant ratified the
actions alleged to be wrongful.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages,
including at paras. 8, 36, and 39.
The court rules as follows:  The court finds that the allegations are
insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  To prove that a defendant acted with “willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to
prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness.  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.  Rather, a plaintiff
must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous
and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.”  Id. at 90.  Further, the allegations must be sufficient
for a reasonable jury to conclude that defendant’s conduct was “despicable”
defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” 
College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704,
725.  “Nonintentional conduct comes
within the definition of malicious acts only when a party intentionally
performs an act which he knows, or should know, it is highly probable harm will
result.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 907.  Defendant’s
alleged conduct or lack of conduct does not constitute “despicable”
conduct.  The allegations do not show
malice, oppression, or fraud.
The motion is thus GRANTED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to punitive damages. 
The motion is DENIED as to “In addition, Plaintiffs are entitled to
attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to California Civil Code section 1942”
contained in para. 39.  Defendant does
not address attorney’s fees.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.
 