 Case Number:  22TRCV01169    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JESUS
  ESCOCHEA, JR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01169




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
RALPHS
  GROCERY COMPANY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 5,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Rodney Finnell 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jesus Escochea, Jr.
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of
Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 4th, 6th, and 7th
causes of action and OVERRULED as to the 8th cause of action as to
defendant Finnell.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to punitive damages and Exh. A attached to the
complaint.  The motion is DENIED as to
paras. 29, 47-50 and Exhs. C-E. 
BACKGROUND
            On November 7, 2022, Jesus Escochea,
Jr. filed a complaint against Ralphs Grocery Company, Guardian International
Solutions Inc., Rodney Finnell, and Michael Strauther for (1) false
imprisonment, (2) battery, (3) assault, (4) Bane Act, (5) premise liability,
(6) IIED, (7) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention, and (8) negligence.
            On April 7, 2023, a default was
entered against Michael Strauther.
            On June 30, 2023, the court
overruled Ralph’s demurrer to the 4 through 8th causes of
action.  The court granted defendant’s
motion to strike punitive damages and denied the motion as to attorney’s fees.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Ralph Finnell demurs to
the 4th, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes
of action on the ground that the allegations are insufficient to constitute a
cause of action against individual defendant.
In the complaint, plaintiff alleges
that defendant Rodney Finnell is and was CEO of defendant Guardian
International.  Complaint, ¶7.  Finnell was an agent and or an employee of
Ralphs employed as a security guard company. 
Id., ¶8.  Defendant Guardian
International hired, employed, and retained Michael Strauther as a security
guard.  Id., ¶9.  Defendant Finnell hired, employed,
supervised, and assigned Strauther to work the location of the Ralphs store
relative to this lawsuit.  Id., ¶11.  Strauther was an employee and or agent of
Ralphs and Guardian International.  Id., ¶12.  All of the wrongful acts of Strauther were
subsequently ratified by Ralphs in that Ralphs took no disciplinary action
against Strauther and Guardian International and continued to employ Strauther
and Guardian International after the acts alleged were committed.  Id., ¶15. 
Plaintiff alleges that he has been
a customer of Ralphs for over 20 years.  Id.,
¶20.  On November 10, 2020, plaintiff
arrived at Ralphs store located at 1413 Hawthorne Blvd., Redondo Beach as a
patron and business invitee to purchase groceries.  Id., ¶21. 
Plaintiff, while on a telephone call with his phone in his right hand
placed to his ear, entered the location via the south entrance making his way
through the flower section walking north past the frozen section.  Id., ¶22. 
Defendant Strauther chose to forcefully grab plaintiff’s left arm from
behind while plaintiff was walking and spin him around 180 degrees causing him
to lose his balance and ending up face to face with Strauther.  Id., ¶23. 
Strauther was wearing a mask below his nose, a dark jacket with no
markings or insignia, khaki military style pants, black boots, and a concealed
handgun.  Id., ¶24.  Strauther began telling plaintiff that he
needed to wear a mask.  Id., ¶25.  Plaintiff, thinking he was being accosted by
an irate customer and fearing for his safety pulled away and continued walking
towards aisle 15.  Id., ¶26.  Strauther then chose to step in front of
plaintiff, stopping his free movement. 
Id., ¶27.  Strauther then chose to
use his left forearm and strike plaintiff in the chest with enough force to
cause plaintiff to move backwards and stop his forward progression.  Id., ¶28. 
Strauther, Finnell, and Guardian International chose not to report the
use of force to BSIS as required by the Bus. and Prof. Code.  Id., ¶29. 
Strauther then told plaintiff to, “get the fuck out of my store.”  Id., ¶30. 
Plaintiff immediately disconnected his phone call and attempted to
record Strauther’s actions.  Id., ¶31.  Plaintiff saw Strauther was in possession of
a police style baton protruding from his right side and two ammunition magazine
pouches protruding from underneath his dark, unmarked jacket.  Id., ¶32. 
Strauther continued demanding plaintiff to leave the store.  Id., ¶33. 
Plaintiff told Strauther that he had no right to touch him and asked
Strauther who he was.  Id., ¶34.  Strauther quickly walked away towards the
east end of the location.  Id., ¶35.  A short time later, while at the self-check
out area, plaintiff saw Strauther standing nearby with no visible security
company markings on his jacket.  Id., ¶36.  Plaintiff approached Strauther and asked for
identification, but Strauther refused to identify himself and said, “don’t
worry about it,” and walked away.  Id., ¶37.  Plaintiff contacted the night manager “Shana”
while at the location who said she did not know who Strauther was and refused
to provide any company information.  Id.,
¶38.  
Plaintiff further alleges that he called
the Redondo Beach Police Department and reported the battery and that he
believed Strauther had a concealed firearm underneath his jacket.  Id., ¶39. 
Strauther was licensed only for an “exposed” firearm and was in
violation of his licensing.  Id., ¶40.  Plaintiff told the officers he wanted to make
a citizen’s arrest of Strauther but the officers refused the request.  Id., ¶41. 
One officer went inside the location to make contact with Strauther,
confirming his name and that Strauther was armed with a handgun but that was no
longer concealed.  Id., ¶42.  
Plaintiff also alleges that on November
12, 2020, plaintiff met with Ralphs Assistant Manager Sergio Lopez and gave him
a letter requesting the surveillance camera footage of the incident be secured
and preserved.  Id., ¶43.  On November 24, 2020, plaintiff called Ralphs
District Asset Protection Manager Scott Harris, who confirmed receipt of the
preservation letter provided to Lopez. 
Plaintiff followed up the phone call with Harris by memorializing the
conversation with Harris in an email, which plaintiff sent to Harris.  Id., ¶45. 

On January 5, 2021, plaintiff
submitted a complaint with the State of California Dept. of Consumer Affairs
Bureau of Security and Investigative Services (BSIS), the governing body for
security companies and guards.  Id., ¶46.  On April 7, 2021, BSIS completed their
investigation and issued a finding of fact based off of plaintiff’s complaint
allegations by issuing citations to Guardian International and Finnell for
violating Bus. and Prof. Code §§7582 [false representation regarding licensure]
7582.3(a) [no person shall engage in business of private patrol operator unless
that person applied for and received a license].  Id., ¶47. 
On April 14, 2021, BSIS completed their investigation and issued a
finding of fact validating plaintiff’s allegations by issuing citations to
Guardian International and Finnell for violating Bus. and Prof. Code §§7582.27(a)
[if wearing a baton or exposed firearm requires a patch on each arm that reads
“private security” and include name of company], 7582.28(a) [badge or cap
insignia worn by a person who is a licensee shall be of a design approved by
director and include name of licensee and employee number], 7583.2(c) [failure
to properly maintain accurate and current record of proof of completion of
trainings], and 7583.34 [licensee shall not permit any employee to carry a
baton prior to ascertaining if employee is proficient in use of weapon].  Id., ¶¶48-50. 
As a result, plaintiff has suffered damages.  Id., ¶¶51-52.
 
4th cause of action for
violation of Bane Act, Civil Code §52.1
The Bane Act, Civil Code §52.1,
provides protection from interference by threats, intimidation, or coercion or
from attempts to interfere with a person’s state or federal statutory or
constitutional rights.  To prevail on a
cause of action for violation of section 52.1, a plaintiff must show that the
interference with his rights was accomplished through “threats, intimidation,
or coercion.”  The essence of a claim
under the Bane Act is that defendants, by the specified improper means, i.e.,
threats, intimidation, or coercion, tried to or did prevent plaintiff from
doing something he or she had the right to do under the law or to force the plaintiff
to do something that he or she was not required to do under the law.  Shoyoye v. County of Los Angeles (2012)
203 Cal. App. 4th 947, 955-56.
The complaint alleges that on
November 10, 2020, plaintiff was threatened, coerced and/or intimidated within
the meaning of Civil Code §52.1 when he was assaulted, battered, and his
freedom of movement was impeded. 
Complaint, ¶80.  Plaintiff’s
assault, battery, and restrictive movement was accomplished through threats,
intimidation, and coercion by Strauther. 
Id., ¶81.  Strauther used his
position as a Ralphs security officer to effectuate his threats, coercion, and
intimidation of plaintiff to violate his right simply for not wearing a
mask.  Id., ¶82.
Defendant Finnell argues that plaintiff
has not alleged that Finnell took any action personally against plaintiff or
that Finnell aided, abetted, or participated in the alleged use of force or
engaged in any intentional conduct.
In opposition, plaintiff argues that
he has sufficiently alleged an agency relationship between Finnell and
Strauther, and that Finnell hired, employed, supervised, and assigned Strauther
to provide security guard services when Guardian was not licensed to do so.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient that an agency relationship existed between
Finnell and Strauther such that Finnell could be liable for Strauther’s alleged
conduct in violation of the Bane Act.  Rather
the complaint alleges that Strauther was an employee and or agent of Ralphs and
Guardian International.  Complaint,
¶12.  Further, under this cause of
action, plaintiff alleges that Strauther was Ralphs’ security guard.  Also, there are no allegations that Finnell
engaged in any conduct that would constitute a violation of the Bane Act.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
6th cause of action for
IIED
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress [IIED] exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the
defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.’”  Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-51.
The complaint alleges that
defendants’ actions were outrageous in that they purposefully attempted to
detain plaintiff and interfered with this freedom of movement simply for not
wearing a mask.  These actions were
intended to cause severe emotional distress to plaintiff.  As a result, plaintiff suffered severe
emotional distress and defendants’ actions were a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  Complaint, ¶91.
Defendant argues that the
allegations do not show that he engaged in any intentional conduct against
plaintiff. 
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient as to an agency relationship between
Finnell and Strauther and “the illegal activities Finnell assigned Strauther to
perform.” 
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to meet the elements of an agency relationship
between Finnell and Strauther such that Finnell could be held liable for
Strauther’s alleged extreme and outrageous conduct.  Rather the complaint alleges that Strauther
was an employee and or agent of Ralphs and Guardian International, as stated
above.  Further, there are no allegations
that Finnell engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
7th cause of action for
negligent hiring, supervision, or retention
The elements of a claim for
negligent hiring, supervision, and/or retention are that (1) the employer
defendant hired the employee; (2) the employee was or became unfit to perform
the work for which the employee was hired; (3) the employer knew or should have
known the employee was or became unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness
or incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) that the employee’s
unfitness or incompetence harmed the plaintiff; and (5) that the employee’s
negligence in hiring, supervising, or retaining the employee was a substantial
factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.  CACI
No. 426.  “[A]n employer can be liable to
a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit
employee.”  Doe v. Capital Cities
(1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 1038, 1054.  To
establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a
plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
occurs.  See Z.V. v. County of
Riverside (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 889, 902; Doe, supra, 50 Cal.
App. 4th at 1054.
The complaint alleges that Ralphs
has been aware for some time that Strauther and Guardian International were
operating without a license as a regulated company, unlicensed to possess a
baton, failure to properly wear an identifiable uniform and improperly
maintaining personnel records as required by California law and having
previously assaulted customers and witnessed on the same evening in the
presence of responding officers.  As a
result of civil lawsuits and complaints, Ralphs knew, or should have known
through an exercise of reasonable diligence that Strauther and Guardian
International were unfit and incompetent to be allowed the continued authority
and responsibility to serve in the capacity as security officers, and perform
the work for which they were hired and retained.  Complaint, ¶94.  Nevertheless, in spite of Strauther and
Guardian International known and well documented wrongdoing, Ralphs has
continued to employ Strauther and Guardian International and the failure of
these policies, practices, and procedures has allowed Strauther and Guardian
International to retain authority within, thus encouraging the wrongful and
malicious acts and omissions described above. 
Id., ¶95.  With a deliberate
indifference to the consequences, Ralphs failed to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent Strauther and Guardian International from retaliating
against plaintiff by allowing defendants to continuously allow follow plaintiff
throughout the location on subsequent visits, failed to take plaintiff’s and others
complaints against Strauther and Guardian International seriously, failed to
timely and thoroughly investigated and document evidence of harassment and
misconduct by Strauther and Guardian International against plaintiff and
others, failed to create an environment of transparent accountability by
reporting the results of its investigation of misconduct and crimes to the
victims and BSIS, plaintiff and proper authorities, and failed to take timely
and appropriate and corrective action by counseling, retraining, supervising,
reprimanding, disciplining, reassigning, terminating, and prosecuting
defendants when they commit wrongdoing. 
Id., ¶96.  Ralphs negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention was a substantial factor in causing the harm
to plaintiff.  Id., ¶97.  
Defendant argues that plaintiff has
not alleged any facts that Finnell personally owed a duty of care to plaintiff
or that he had knowledge of or ratified Strauther’s alleged conduct.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that he adequately alleged the elements, including that Finnell owed a duty of
care to all foreseeable persons, including plaintiff.  Plaintiff asserts that he alleges that
Finnell hired, employed, supervised, and assigned Strauther to work at Ralphs
in providing unlicensed security services, that Finnell permitted Strauther to
carry a police-style baton without a license and to provide security guard
services without wearing an approved uniform, and that Finnell knew or should
have known that Strauther was “unfit or incompetent as an unlicensed armed
security guard carrying illegal weapons.”
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as the allegations under the 7th cause
of action are directed to Ralphs’ negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention.  See para. 97.  There are no allegations that Finnell owed a
duty or that he breached a duty or that he caused any harm to plaintiff under
this cause of action or that he was Strauther’s employer.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
8th cause of action for
negligence
The complaint alleges that Finnell
willfully and negligently hired and provided authority to Strauther, an
unlicensed security officer possessing a concealed firearm, a police style
baton and improperly wearing an unidentifiable uniform while performing the
duties granted by Ralphs.  Complaint,
¶103.  Defendants breached the aforesaid
duties of care.  Id., ¶104.
Defendant argues that the complaint
does not allege that he personally owed a duty of care to plaintiff or that he
directed, authorized, or participated in any “meaningful sense,” or even had
knowledge of, or ratified Strauther’s alleged conduct.  
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations meet the elements.
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant Finnell requests that the
court strike punitive damages in the 6th cause of action and prayer
for relief; and para. 29 and Exh. A, paras. 47, 48, 49, 50, and Exhs. C through
E.
As to punitive damages, defendant
argues that the allegations are insufficient that Finnell had advanced
knowledge of any alleged unfitness of Strauther, that Finnell employed
Strauther with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others, that
Finnell authorized or ratified Strauther’s alleged conduct, or that Finnell was
personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
As to the other paragraphs—para. 29
alleges that Finnell failed to report Strauther’s alleged use of force against
plaintiff, paras. 47-50 allege that on April 7 and 14, 2021, BSIS cited Finnell
under specific sections of the Bus. and Prof. Code—and Exhs. A, C through E,
defendant argues that the findings of the Dept. of Consumer Affairs Bureau of
Security and Investigative Services are as to “wholly unrelated incidents and
irrelevant issues.”  Exh. A is as to an
incident on January 15, 2021 between a different security guard and a different
member of public; Exh. C is a citation issued to Guardian and Finnell regarding
its licensure; Exh. D is a citation issued to Guardian and Finnell regarding
the posting of unspecified security guards at unspecified locations with
uniforms and badges not approved and failing to maintain records; Exh. E is a
citation issued to Guardian and Finnell alleging that Strauther was allowed to
stand post as a security guard at Ralphs carrying a baton without a valid baton
permit.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that he has sufficiently alleged the causes of action at issue and thus is
entitled to the damages alleged.  As to
punitive damages, plaintiff asserts that defendant is the registered Qualified
Manager of Guardian and operates the day to day functions and assignments and
that it was his choices, decisions, and actions that have caused him to be
personally named, and not his position as an officer of Guardian.  Plaintiff also contends that he has
sufficiently alleged defendant hired, employed, supervised, and assigned
defendant Strauther to work the location of the Ralphs store.  As to paras. 29 and 47-50, and Exhs. A, C-E,
plaintiff contends that they are relevant.
            The court finds that the allegations
are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages against Finnell in his
individual capacity.  The allegations do
not show that he acted with malice, oppression, or fraud or that he was
Strauther’s employer.
            As to paras. 29, 47-50, and Exh. C (showing
defendants were unlicensed), D (citation re Strauther) and E (civil penalty as
to Strauther), the court finds that there is no ground to strike them.  As to Exh. A (April 14, 2021 citation for
failing to submit an incident report as to another security guard), plaintiff
has not shown how it is material.
The motion to strike is thus GRANTED
as to punitive damages and Exh. A attached to the complaint.  The motion is DENIED as to paras. 29, 47-50
and Exhs. C-E. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.