 Case Number:  23TTVB01474    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
SHAWN
  CARTER-COLLINS, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01474




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BRANDON
  SCORZA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 5,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Maplebear Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
Verified
Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The application is GRANTED.  The court ORDERS that Andrew P. Carroll appear
as counsel pro hac vice for defendant Maplebear Inc.
BACKGROUND
            On May 9, 2023, plaintiffs Shawn
Carter-Collins and Madison Lavergne filed a complaint against Maplebear Inc.
and Brandon Scorza for motor vehicle negligence based on an incident that
occurred on May 28, 2021 at the intersection of El Segundo Blvd. and Wilton
Place, in Gardena.
DISCUSSION
Attorney Andrew P. Carroll requests
leave to appear as counsel pro hac vice for defendant Maplebear Inc.
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California.  
The application must state:  (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action.  CRC Rule 9.40(d).
The court finds that attorney
Andrew P. Carroll’s application complies with the requirements of Rule
9.40.  The applicant has paid the
required $50.00 fee to the State Bar of California.  CRC Rule 9.40(e).
The application is GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.