 Case Number:  24STCV02982    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CARL JACOBS,
  et al.,
  
         vs.
 
GREEN
  PASTURES GROUP, INC., et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV02982
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 10, 2024



 
Defendants Green
Pastures Group, Inc.’s and John Cohen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Carl Jacobs’ and
Beverly Jacobs’ entire Complaint is
overruled. Defendants Green Pastures Group, Inc.’s and John Cohen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd and 3rd causes
of action is overruled.  Defendants
Green Pastures Group, Inc.’s and John Cohen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th and 7th causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Defendants Green
Pastures Group, Inc.’s and John Cohen’s motion to strike portions of
Plaintiffs’ complaint is denied as moot. 
 
Defendants Green Pastures Group, Inc. (“GPG”) and John
Cohen (“Cohen”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur to the to Complaint
(“Complaint”) of Plaintiffs Carl Jacobs (“Carl”) and Beverly Jacobs (“Beverly”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) in its entirety, as well as the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and
7th causes of action.  (Notice of
Demurrer, pgs. 1-3; C.C.P. §§430.41(e), (f).) 
Defendants also move to strike portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint.  (Notice of MTS, pgs. 1-2;
C.C.P. §§435, 436, 437.)
 
1.    
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)
(3) The demurring party shall file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which
the demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving
the objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on April 1, 2024, she
met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel telephonically to discuss the
instant demurrer and motion to strike. 
(Decl. of Bassi ¶3.)  Moving
Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Therefore, the Court will consider Moving
Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiffs
filed operative Complaint on February 5, 2024 against Moving Defendants and
Non-moving Defendants Old Republic Surety Company (“Old Republic”) and Western
Surety Company (“Western”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging eight causes
of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Breach of Express
Warranty; (4) Breach of Implied Warranty; (5) Negligence/Construction Defect;
(6) Breach of Implied Warranty; (7) Fraud-Failure to Disclose Defects; and (8)
Action Against License Bond.
Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer and
accompanying motion to strike on April 5, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on May 28,
2024.  Moving Defendants filed their reply
on June 3, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege they are husband and wife and together
own the real property located at 420 N. Las Palmas Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90004
(“Property”).  (Complaint ¶1.)  Plaintiffs allege in or about May 2021,
Plaintiffs and GPG entered into a verbal contract for the design and
construction of a swimming pool and spa and related electrical and plumbing
systems, pool equipment, as well as various hardscape items including a pool
deck and related drainage systems, and landscaping, for a total contract price
of approximately $250,000.00.  (Complaint
¶10.)  Plaintiffs allege during the
course of construction, the parties entered into numerous modifications to the
contract consisting of changes in the scope of work and additions and/or
credits to the contract price.  (Complaint
¶10.)    
Plaintiffs allege GPG began work on the Property in
approximately May 2021 but never completely finished its work as of July 2023,
after numerous attempts by the Plaintiffs to correct or finish multiple items
including, without limitation, fencing, delaminating stone tiles around the
pool deck, fixing the leaks in the spa, and deck lighting.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiffs allege after these attempts
failed, in or about August 2023, Plaintiffs notified Moving Defendants that
their services were being terminated.  (Complaint
¶12.)  
Plaintiffs allege subsequently, they engaged the services
of pool construction experts for the purpose of inspecting and evaluating
Defendants’ work on the Property, at which time Plaintiffs discovered numerous
defects enumerated in paragraph 16 below.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiffs allege in consideration for the
work described herein, Plaintiffs have paid GPG and/or its vendors
approximately $317,000.00.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiffs allege at all times material
hereto, Defendant expressly agreed to provide Plaintiffs with high quality
work, to be constructed in a first class, professional and workmanlike manner
and in accordance with all applicable building codes and in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications.  (Complaint
¶15.)
Plaintiffs allege Moving Defendants billed themselves as
“Pool Builders to the Stars” and “A Master Craftsman Expert Design/Build Firm.”  (Complaint ¶16.)   Plaintiffs allege they have performed all
conditions, covenants and promises required in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the written contract and change orders entered into between the
Plaintiffs and Defendant.  (Complaint ¶17.)
Plaintiffs allege beginning in or about July 2023, and
continuing thereafter, GPG breached the contract with the Plaintiff by failing
to construct the improvements in a first class, professional and workmanlike
manner as manifested by, but not limited to numerous defects which have
resulted in damage to Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ Property, as herein alleged,
during the period between the initial construction of the above-described
improvements until the present time. The defects include, without limitation,
the following:
a.     
Failure
to construct the pool and spa with proper permits required by the City of Los
Angeles, in particular building a new pool inside an old pool without proper
engineering or approval by the City of Los Angeles; 
b.    
Failure
to follow plans and engineering drawings, causing the City of Los Angeles,
Department of Building & Safety to disapprove the construction of the pool
and spa; 
c.     
Spa
structure infringes on required setback from the north property line; 
d.    
Failure
to enlist the services of a licensed geotechnical consultant to verify existing
soils conditions; 
e.     
There
is uncompacted and uncertified fill material, as well as moisture trapped
between the old pool deep end floor and the new pool floor. 
f.      
The
mechanical equipment is either partially or non-functioning; 
g.    
The
MEP system is not designed properly for the optimal functioning of the pool and
spa;
h.    
The
UV Sterilizer/Ozone generator is inoperable;
i.      
The
pool requires a two-pump system whereas only a one pump system was designed and
installed;
j.      
Improperly
designed chemical control system not to industry standard;
k.    
Spa
blower inoperable;
l.      
Failure
to follow NEC Article 680 for equipotential bonding;
m.  
No
pool enclosure fence and gates required by State and local building codes;
n.    
The
pool deck was constructed at the wrong elevation, causing the weep screed on an
adjacent structure to be “buried” in violation of the City’s building codes;
o.    
Stone
pavers around the pool and spa are incorrectly installed and are delaminating;
p.    
Pool
deck is improperly sloped causing inadequate drainage and causing water
migration under the stone pavers around the pool and spa;
q.    
Incorrect
installation of pool floor per engineering;
r.      
The
spa has voids of 6” to 12” on its western face that show exposed steel and
plumbing; water is leaking from the spa into this void, causing corrosion to
the steel reinforcing bars in the spa;
s.     
The
pebble finish was installed on top of two different applications of Hydrazo
without use of the proper bonding materials;
t.      
Leaking
from the pool and spa causing saturation and damage to the landscaped area
between the pool and the Plaintiffs’ residence.
u.    
The
combined result of the foregoing defects will require complete removal of the
old pool and new pool and spa, as well as other alterations to the property
noted above.
(Complaint ¶18.)   
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to the entire
Complaint on the basis fails in its entirety to state facts sufficient to
constitute the causes of action against Cohen and is uncertain as to
Cohen.  (Demurrer, pgs. 6-7.)  Moving Defendants demur to the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
on the basis the causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against Cohen, and 7th cause of action on the basis it fails
to allege facts sufficient to allege a cause of action.  (Demurrer, pgs. 7-10.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Entire Complaint
Moving Defendants demur generally to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
on the basis it is wholly devoid of facts to support of cause of action alleged
against Cohen.  However, Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege on information and belief that Cohen is an alter ego of
GPG, such that allegations against GPG that are sufficiently alleged also apply
to Cohen.  (See Complaint ¶¶4-5.)
Accordingly,
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the entire Complaint is overruled.
 
Negligence (2nd COA)
A cause of action for negligence
requires the following elements: (1) defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty;
(2) breached the duty; and (3) the breach caused (4) damages.  (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)  A complaint which lacks allegations of fact to
show that a legal duty of care was owed is fatally defective.  (See Jones v. Grewe (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 950.)  The existence of a legal duty of care is
properly challenged by demurrer and is a question of law for the court.  (Hegyes v. Unjian Enterprises, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1103,
1111.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants so
carelessly and negligently planned, designed, improved, constructed, modified,
observed, inspected, installed and/or performed work and services at the
Property as herein alleged so as to proximately cause the defects and damages
to the Plaintiffs’ Property and other improvements to the Property, as herein
alleged.  (Complaint ¶24.)  
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege
Cohen is an alter ego of GPG, which imputes Plaintiffs’ allegations against GPG
to Cohen.  
Further, Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that Cohen is a shareholder, officer, and director of
GPG.  (Complaint ¶3 [“At all times herein
mentioned, Cohen is and was a licensed pool contractor in the State of
California, and the qualifying ‘responsible managing officer’ of Defendant GPG.”].)
 It follows that Plaintiff has alleged Cohen,
being an officer, director and shareholder of GPG is personally liable for his
own tortious conduct. (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Association (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503-505 [stating
corporate director or officer status neither immunizes a person from personal
liability for tortious conduct nor subjects him or her to vicarious liability
for such acts].)  According to the
California Contractor’s State License Law, the responsible managing officer of
a licensed corporation “shall be responsible for exercising supervision and
control of their employer’s or principal’s construction operations to secure
compliance with this chapter and the rules and regulations of the board.”  (Business & Professions Code §7068.1.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is overruled.
 
Breach of Express
Warranty (3rd COA)
“The essential elements of a
cause of action under the California Uniform Commercial Code for breach of an
express warranty to repair defects are (1) an express warranty to repair
defects given in connection with the sale of goods; (2) the existence of a
defect covered by the warranty; (3) the buyer’s notice to the seller of such a
defect within a reasonable time after its discovery; (4) the seller’s failure
to repair the defect in compliance with the warranty; and (5) resulting
damages.”  (Orichian v. BMW of North
America, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1333-1334, as modified (July
1, 2014), internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege on information
and belief that GPG and/or Cohen hired Defendants Does 26 through 50 as GPG’s
subcontractors to perform all or substantially all of the work for the project
described in paragraph 8 herein, and that Defendants Does 26 through 50
performed the work, and caused the defects in construction, that are delineated
in paragraph 16 herein.  (Complaint ¶35.)
Plaintiffs allege Does 26
through 50 knew at all times that the work was being performed by them for the
Plaintiffs’ benefit and, should any of said Defendants work be defective, that
it would directly injure the Plaintiffs and/or their property.  (Complaint ¶36.)
Plaintiffs allege Does 26
through 50 owed a duty to perform its/their work with due care and to exercise
reasonable diligence to assure that the scope of work performed by them in
connection with the project was constructed and completed in a first class,
professional and workmanlike manner free from defects in material and
workmanship, in accordance with the project plans and specifications, and in
accordance with all applicable building and safety codes.  (Complaint ¶37.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants so
carelessly and negligently planned, constructed, modified, inspected and/or
performed work and services at the Property as herein alleged so as to
proximately cause the defects and damages to the Plaintiffs’ Property and other
improvements to the Property, as herein alleged.  (Complaint ¶38.)
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ cause of action on the basis Cohen has not entered into a contract
with Plaintiffs is unavailing because Plaintiffs sufficiently allege Cohen is
an alter ego of GPG.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is overruled.
 
Breach of Implied
Warranty (4th COA)
“Unlike express warranties, which are basically contractual
in nature, the implied warranty of merchantability arises by operation of law.
It does not ‘impose a general requirement that goods precisely fulfill the
expectation of the buyer. Instead, it provides for a minimum level of
quality.’”  (American Suzuki Motor
Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1295-1296, internal
citations omitted.)
A plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) that
plaintiff bought a consumer good from/manufactured by defendant; (2) that at
the time of purchase defendant was in the business of selling consumer goods to
retail buyers/manufacturing consumer goods; (3) that the consumer good was not
of the same quality as those generally acceptable in the trade; (4) plaintiff
was harmed; and (5) defendant’s breach of the implied warranty was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(See CACI 3210.)
Plaintiffs allege in agreeing to make the improvements to
the Plaintiffs’ Property as herein alleged, Defendants impliedly warranted that
the improvements would be properly constructed in a first class, professional
and workmanlike manner, free of defects in material and workmanship, and built
in accordance with the project plans and specifications and in accordance with
all applicable building and safety codes. 
(Complaint ¶31.)  Plaintiffs
allege the improvements to the Property performed by GPG, Cohen and Does 1
through 25 were not constructed in a professional and workmanlike manner, the
improvements were not made in accordance with the applicable project plans and
specifications, are not free from defects in material and workmanship, and are
not completed accordance with all applicable building and safety codes.  (Complaint ¶32.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege Moving Defendants are subject to
the instant cause of action as merchants in the business of selling consumer
goods to retail buyers or manufacturing consumer goods.  Plaintiffs fail to allege Moving Defendants’
breach of the implied warranty was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’
harm.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fraud (7th COA)
The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action
for intentional misrepresentation, are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; an (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity: “general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.”  (Small v. Fritz Companies,
Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184, quoting Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at pg.
638.)
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on
a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.”  (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)
“A duty to speak may arise in four ways: it may be directly
imposed by statute or other prescriptive law; it may be voluntarily assumed by
contractual undertaking; it may arise as an incident of a relationship between
the defendant and the plaintiff; and it may arise as a result of other conduct
by the defendant that makes it wrongful for him to remain silent.”  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Central Pacific
Bank (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 859, 860.)
“In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or
confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of material facts
may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes representations
but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or
which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are known or
accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known to or
reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
discovery from the plaintiff.”  (Warner
Construction Corp. v. L.A. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294, footnotes omitted.)
Plaintiffs
allege on information and belief that Defendants knew during the course of
construction of the improvements described herein, that said improvements were
required to be performed in a first class, professional and workmanlike manner,
free from defects in material and workmanship, and performed in accordance with
the project plans and specifications and in accordance with all applicable
building and safety codes.  (Complaint ¶46.)
 Plaintiffs
allege the vast majority of the defects in the improvements are latent and these
defects were not discovered by Plaintiffs until in or about July 2023, when
continuing problems with the pool, spas and related structures led Plaintiffs
to enlist the services of a pool construction experts who, thereafter,
conducted destructive testing of the new pool shell, in order to identify the
defects alleged herein.  (Complaint ¶47.)
Plaintiffs
allege on information and belief that the defects alleged herein are not
isolated incidents, but indicative of Defendants GPG and Cohen’s negligent and
careless business practices and that said Defendants knew or should have known
of the alleged defects in the construction of the pool and spa and related
mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and yet failed to disclose those
defects to the Plaintiffs, who are lay persons when it comes to construction of
pools and spas.  (Complaint ¶48.)
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants, as licensed contractors, had an obligation to disclose these
defects to the Plaintiffs, yet the Defendants failed to disclose the
above-described defects to the Plaintiffs. 
(Complaint ¶49.)
Plaintiffs
allege in reliance thereon, Plaintiffs have paid to Defendants in excess of
$317,000.00 for the improvements described herein, which are now discovered to
be defectively built, built without conformance to the project plans and
specifications, built in violation of applicable building and safety codes, all
as previously alleged herein.  (Complaint
¶50.)
Plaintiffs
fail to allege fraud with the requisite specificity.  Plaintiffs fail to allege the undisclosed
facts at issue with specificity.  Plaintiffs
also fail to allege with specificity that Moving Defendants
intentionally concealed or suppressed the facts that should have been disclosed
to Plaintiffs with the intent to defraud Plaintiffs.  (Warner Construction Corp., 2 Cal.3d at
pg. 294, footnotes omitted.)
Accordingly,
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ entire Complaint is overruled.
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 2nd and 3rd causes of action is overruled.  Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’
4th and 7th causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling
on Moving Defendants’ demurrer, Moving Defendants’ motion to strike is denied
as moot.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ motion to
strike is denied as moot.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                             





  