 Case Number:  23STCV00096    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 1, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE:   Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         California Spine and Neurosurgery Institute v. CBRE Group, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV00096
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
CBRE Inc. and Health Care Service Corporation dba Blue Cross Shield of Texas
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff California
Spine and Neurosurgery Institute
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            California Spine and Neurosurgery
Institute (“Plaintiff” or “California Spine”) provided care for a member and
enrollee (“Patient”) of CBRE Group’s (“CBRE”) health insurance policy.  Plaintiff called CBRE’s agent Blue Cross Blue
Shield of Texas (“BCBS”), on behalf of Patient (CBRE and BCBS together will be
referred to as “Defendants”) to inquire about payment for services.  Plaintiff was informed about CBRE’s rate of
pay for services.  Plaintiff provided
services to the patient and Defendants failed to pay.  California
Spine alleges Defendants made misrepresentations to Plaintiff regarding the
manner in which CBRE pays for services. 
Believing Defendants would pay for Plaintiff’s patient’s treatment at a
Usual, Customary, and Reasonable (UCR) rate rather than at a Medicare rate,
Plaintiff provided medical services to 
Patient.  Defendants paid zero
dollars for the services.
California Spine initiated this action on January 4, 2023
and filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on August 31, 2023.  The SAC alleges causes of action for (1) Fraud
and (2) Negligent Misrepresentation.
 
            On November
3, 2023, Defendants filed this demurrer to the SAC.
 
            California Spine
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.

 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect
to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general
or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v.
Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice of five documents.  As the court does not rely on the documents to
resolve this motion, the court declines to rule on Defendants’ request.
 
IV        DISCUSSION
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.  (See Declaration of Lavinia S. Osilesi, ¶ 3.)
 
Analysis
 
The issues to be
decided are (1) whether the First Cause of Action and Second Cause of Action
sufficient state viable causes of action, and (2) whether the economic loss
rule bars Plaintiff’s claims.
 
1.     
The
First and Second Causes of Action Fail to Sufficiently Plead the Necessary
Elements
 
                “The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for
deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.)”  (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc.
v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 837–838 (Tenet) (cleaned up).)
 
            “In
California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations
do not suffice.  Thus  the policy of liberal construction of the
pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in
any material respect. This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.  In addition, a plaintiff is held to a higher
standard in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate defendant.  In such a case, the plaintiff must allege the
names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.”  (Ibid.) (Cleaned up.) 
 
The elements of
negligent misrepresentation are: “(1) the misrepresentation of a past or
existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented,
(4) justifiable reliance on the  misrepresentation, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Apollo Capital Fund LLC v.
Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243; CACI No. 1903.)
 
            In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges as
follows: 
 
25.
On December 2, 2021 so as to determine whether or not to provide services,
Medical Provider’s employee, Valerie Lopez, obtained representations from
BCBS’s employee and DEFEDANT’s representative, Carl T., regarding the manner in
which Defendant pays for services. 
 
26.
The reference number for the call is and was J-19373263295. 
 
27.
Medical Provider asked BCBS on behalf of Defendant: what is the Patient’s
responsibility versus Defendant’s responsibility for paying for medical
services? 
 
28.
BCBS on behalf of Defendant represented to Medical Provider that Patient’s
deductible is and was $1,000.00 and Patient’s Max Out Of Pocket (“MOOP”)
expense is and was $5,000.00 and that to date for that calendar year Patient
had paid $3,988.85. 
 
29.
Medical Provider asked BCBS on behalf of Defendant: does Defendant pay based on
UCR for a neurospine procedure? 
 
30.
BCBS on behalf of Defendant represented to Medical Provider that Defendant pays
the UCR rate. 
31. Medical Provider asked BCBS on behalf of Defendant: does
Defendant pay based on a Medicare Fee Schedule for a neurospine procedure?
32. BCBS on behalf of Defendant represented to Medical
Provider that payment is not based on a Medicare Fee Schedule. 
33. All of the information obtained was documented by
MEDICAL PROVIDER as part of MEDICAL PROVIDER’s office policy and practice. 
34. At no time prior to the provision of services to Patient
by MEDICAL PROVIDER was MEDICAL PROVIDER advised that Patient’s policy or
certificate of insurance was subject to certain exclusions, limitations or
qualifications, which might result in denial of coverage, limitation of payment
or any other method of payment unrelated to the UCR rate. 
35. BCBS on behalf of Defendant did not make reference to
any other portion of Patient’s plan that would put MEDICAL PROVIDER on notice
of any reduction in the originally stated payment percentage. 
36. BCBS on behalf of Defendant honestly believed the
representations it was making to MEDICAL PROVIDER were true. However, there
were no reasonable grounds for BCBS or Defendant to have had that belief. 
37. In the alternative, despite representing that payment
would be made at the UCR rate, DEFENDANT and BCBS knew that they would not be
paying Medical Provider at the UCR rate. BCBS on behalf of Defendant lied. And
BCBS on behalf of Defendant intended by their representations to induce Medical
Provider to provide the services. Despite representing that payment would not
be made at a Medicare rate, DEFENDANT and BCBS knew that they would be paying
Medical Provider at a Medicare rate. BCBS on behalf of Defendant lied. 
38. In either case, MEDICAL PROVIDER was never provided with
a copy of Patient’s plan by BCBS, Defendant or Patient. As a result, MEDICAL
PROVIDER could not even make itself aware of any reduction of the payment
amount. 
39. Medical Provider relied and provided services solely
based on BCBS on behalf of Defendant’s statements, promises and
representations. Statements which had no relation to DEFENDANT and Patient’s
plan document, as the statements may or may not have been based in the
DEFENDANT or Patient’s plan documents, but that bore no consideration when
Medical Provider agreed to provide medical services. Medical Provider took BCBS
on behalf of DEFENDANT at their word and promises and provided services based
solely on those promises and representations.
 
 
 
Plaintiff and
Defendants spar over the application of two cases:  Tenet, supra, and Aton
Center, Inc. v. United HealthCare Insurance Company (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th
1214 (Aton).  While both cases are
helpful, neither are dispositive because the factual predicate here is
different.  Aton involved an
appeal from summary judgment.  The
procedural posture is important.  The Court
of Appeal carefully reviewed the evidence presented and concluded Aton’s
evidence was insufficient.  (Aton,
supra, at p. 1247 [“Aton cites no record evidence establishing that United
intentionally misinformed or withheld information from its agents” and “Simply
put, the cited testimony does not support Aton’s factual assertion”].)  The present case is at the pleading
stage.  
 
Tenet is also
distinguishable because the detailed evidence presented in Tenet demonstrated
that Anthem authorized the patient’s treatment. 
 
Here, the SAC sufficiently
alleges the name of the representatives; the date of the representations; the
call reference number; the Patient’s deductible and out of pocket expense.  The details appear sufficient.  The medical provider asked the operative
questions – whether BCBS pay is based on UCR for a neurospine procedure and the
representative answered in the affirmative – that the Defendant pays the UCR
rate.  The medical provider then asked
whether Defendant paid based upon a Medicare Fee schedule for a neurospine
procedure.  The representative answered
that it was not based upon a Medicare Fee schedule.  The issue is teed up. 
 
            Unlike Tenet, however, the
SAC does not allege that Defendants authorized the neurospine procedure or
represented that the “services are covered.”  (Tenet, supra, at p. 840.)  In Tenet, the Court of Appeal
emphasized that the “Hospital has sufficiently alleged the existence of
multiple affirmative misrepresentations that the care at the Hospital rendered
to Patient X would be covered by his insurance plan.” (Id.)(Emphasis
added.)  That allegation is missing
here.  Moreover, the rate of payment does
not appear to be the issue because Defendants did not pay anything.  The issue appears to be authorization of
services.  In Tenet, based upon
the extensive interchange between the Hospital and Anthem, the Court of Appeal
determined Anthem’s conduct “would imply that the services were authorized by
Anthem and provided to Patient X by Hospital were not only medically necessary,
but were covered by Patient X’s health insurance plan.” (Id. at
p. 839, emphasis in original.)  That is
not this case. 
            
Here, Plaintiff
fails to plead the necessary first element: the misrepresentation.  The representation that treatment was
authorized is lacking.  Plaintiff is left
with a hypothetical – if the neurospine procedure were authorized, Plaintiff
would be paid at the UCR rate and payment would not be based upon a Medicare
Fee Schedule.  Plaintiff does not plead
that the procedure was authorized or conversely, that the representatives
misrepresented that the procedure was authorized.[1]   
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file the Third Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   March 1, 2024                                    




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior
  Court¿ 




 
 
 
            


