 Case Number:  23STCV21038    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
1, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Celeste M. Mulrooney v. Susan Florence Scalzo
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21038
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Susan Florence Scalzo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Celeste
M. Mulrooney
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a breach of oral contract and partition action for real
property commonly known as 10350 Samoa Avenue, Tujunga, CA 91042 (the “Samoa
Property”).  On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff,
Celeste M. Mulrooney, filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against
Defendant Susan Florence Scalzo for (1) Partition, (2) Breach of Contract, (3)
Fraud, (4) Common Counts, and (5) Declaratory Relief.  The FAC is verified.
 
The FAC alleges as follows: Plaintiff and Defendant are
sisters.  In July 2011, the parties
entered into an oral agreement to jointly purchase the Samoa Property.  Defendant qualified for a lower interest rate
on the mortgage if Plaintiff was not included on title or mortgage.  As such, the parties mutually agreed that
only Defendant’s name would be on the deed of title to the Samoa Property and
on the mortgage.  The parties also mutually
agreed that they were co-owners of the Samoa Property and agreed to pay jointly
for the maintenance of the property.  Plaintiff paid 50% of the mortgage payment and
property taxes, made improvements to the Samoa Property, among other things.  
 
In December 2012, the parties’ sister, Ann Maria Spencer,
came to live with the parties.  On
October 27, 2022, Defendant no longer wanted Ann to live with the parties and
asked Ann to leave.  Plaintiff protested
Defendant’s treatment of Ann.  Soon
after, on November 15, 2022, Defendant informed Plaintiff she was terminating
the parties’ ownership agreement and Plaintiff would have to vacate the
premises.  Plaintiff and Ann vacated the
Samoa Property on March 25, 2023.  
 
Plaintiff made equal payments on the property’s purchase and
expenses for eleven and one-half years. 
 
            On December
11, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer to each cause of action in the FAC.
 
            The
demurrer was heard on January 25, 2024. 
The court issued a tentative ruling overruling the demurrer as to the
First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action, and sustaining as to the
Fifth Cause of Action.  Based on oral
argument, the court did not adopt the tentative ruling and directed the parties
to submit further briefing to address cases regarding equity, partial
performance, and exclusive possession. 
 
            On February
6, 2024, Defendant submitted supplemental briefing.[1]
 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff responded.
 
For the reasons stated herein, the court adopts its tentative
ruling from January 25, 2024 as the final order of the court.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect
to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general
or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v.
Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
A.  Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has not complied with the meet and confer
requirement.  Defense counsel did not
meet and confer with opposing counsel in person or by telephone.  (See
Declaration of Richard Kolber, ¶ 3; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).)  Notwithstanding this defect, the court exercises its discretion to consider
the demurrer.  “A determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(4).)  
 
B.  Analysis  
 
Defendant demurs to
each cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
 
As a threshold
issue, although Defendant indicates in the Notice of Motion that she demurs to
each cause of action, Defendant does not present any argument in the memorandum
of points and authorities on the Fourth Cause of Action for Common Counts.  “The court may construe the absence of a
memorandum as an admission that the motion, or special demurrer is not
meritorious and cause for its denial, and in the case of a demurrer, as a
waiver of all grounds not supported.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).)  Accordingly, the demurrer to the Fourth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED.  
 
1.     
Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
 
Because the First
Cause of Action for Partition turns on whether Plaintiff states a claim for
breach of contract, the court addresses first the demurrer to the breach of
contract claim.
 
The elements of a
breach of contract cause of action are: (1) the existence of a valid contract
between the plaintiff and the defendant, (2) the plaintiff’s performance, (3)
the defendant’s unjustified failure to perform, and (4) damages to the
plaintiff caused by the defendant’s breach. (CACI No. 303; Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388 (Careau);
Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.)
“[T]he complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written,
oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth, 166 Cal.App.3d at pp. 458-459.)  The elements of a breach of oral contract
claim are the same as those for a breach of written contract. (Careau,
222 Cal.App.3d at p. 1388.)
 
Defendant argues
the Second Cause of Action is barred by the Statute of Frauds for three
reasons: (1) the alleged breach concerns an oral agreement for an interest in
real property; (2) no memorandum exists to take the agreement outside the
Statute of Frauds; and (3) the partial performance exception to the Statute of
Frauds does not apply.
 
The applicable portion
of the Statute of Frauds
is codified by Civil Code section 1624,
subdivision (a)(3): “The following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some
note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be
charged or by his agent: (3) An agreement for the leasing for a longer period
than one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest therein;
such an agreement, if made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is
invalid, unless the authority of the agent is in writing, subscribed by the
party sought to be charged.”  (Emphasis
added.)
 
There is no dispute the
alleged agreement at issue was oral and concerns an interest in real property.  (See FAC, ¶ 44.)  Plaintiff resists the demurrer on the grounds
there is an alleged memorandum evidencing the parties’ agreement.  Plaintiff also argues she partially performed
taking the oral agreement outside the Statute of Frauds.  
 
Plaintiff’s first
argument is unconvincing.  It relies on
the allegation concerning the creation of the Susan Scalzo Trust.  The FAC alleges the “Susan Scalzo Trust is an
additional writing that documents the parties’ agreement to jointly own the
Samoa property.”  (FAC, ¶ 26.)  This allegation is conclusory.  Rather, the FAC makes clear the parties
agreed to establish the trust and transfer the Samoa Property into the trust so
that Plaintiff’s son would be the sole beneficiary of the property upon the
parties’ deaths.  (Id.)  As alleged, the Susan Scalzo Trust was
established to resolve an inheritance issue. 

 
Notwithstanding the
absence of a memorandum, the court finds partial performance is adequately
pleaded.
 
“The doctrine of part
performance by the purchaser is a well recognized exception to the statute of
frauds as applied to contracts for the sale or lease of real property. [Citation.]
Under the doctrine of part performance, the oral agreement for the transfer of
an interest in real property is enforced when the buyer has taken possession of
the property and either makes a full or partial payment of the purchase price,
or makes valuable and substantial improvements on the property, in reliance
on the oral agreement. [Citation.]”  (Sutton
v. Warner (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 415, 422 [cleaned up].)
 
Here, the FAC alleges
that, in reliance on the oral agreement, Plaintiff took joint possession of the
property with Defendant (FAC, ¶ 32), made equal payments to the mortgage and
property tax (FAC, ¶¶ 8, 9 , 34), and made improvements on the property
(FAC, ¶¶ 13, 32, 34).  
 
Defendant contends the
allegations do not constitute part performance because payment of money alone
does not constitute sufficient part performance.  While this is technically correct (see Anderson
v. Stansbury (1952) 38 Cal.2d 707, 716), the FAC plainly alleges that
Plaintiff took possession, made payments on the property, and made
improvements.  
 
Defendant next contends
that part performance requires exclusive possession of the property.  The FAC alleges Plaintiff shared possession
of the Samoa Property with Defendant and the parties’ sister.  Defendant cites Viau v. Viau (1922) 57
Cal.App.66 for the proposition that exclusive possession is required to
establish part performance.  Defendant
mischaracterizes Viau.  In Viau,
the defendant, plaintiff’s mother, orally promised plaintiff that if he
remained with her and assisted in managing, planting, and improving her
property, she would give him 20 acres of the property.  The defendant repudiated the agreement.  The court found plaintiff had not established partial
performance because he never possessed the 20 acres.  (Viau, at pp. 67, 68, 71.)  Here, Plaintiff lived at the Samoa Property
for over eleven years.[2]  The FAC sufficiently pleads part performance
as an exception to the Statute of Frauds.[3]  The oral agreement is not barred.  
 
In her supplement
briefing, Defendant draws the court’s attention to Sutton v. Warner. In   Sutton, possession is defined as
follows: “Possession must be more than a ‘mere technical possession, not open
to observation of the neighborhood, and capable of being proved only by select
and confidential witnesses . . ..’ It must be actual, visible, notorious and
exclusive, so that it manifests clearly that the buyer is claiming and
asserting a distinctive ownership of the property inconsistent with the right
of possession or ownership in any other person.”  (Sutton, at pp. 422-423.)  From this, Defendant extrapolates that a
plaintiff claiming part performance of an oral contract to real property must possess
exclusively the property in question. 
However, nowhere in Sutton does the Court of Appeal make such a
finding.  
 
Nor would such a ruling
make sense in the context of co-ownership. 
For example, in this case, Plaintiff is not arguing she has exclusive
ownership of the property.  She argues
she has a fifty percent interest.  Hence,
the other fifty percent owner is entitled to possession of the property as
well.  Defendant’s fifty percent does not
divest Plaintiff of her fifty percent because they both lived at the property
together.  In Francis v. Golendich
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 128, 131-132, a mother and son lived together on the
property until the son was killed in combat. 
Thereafter the mother continued to live on the property.  The mother’s “possession and that of her son
before her under the oral contract of sale was sufficient part performance to
take the contract out of the statute of frauds.”  The fact the mother lived on the property
with her son before he died did not divest her of ownership because she did not
have exclusive possession of the property. 

 
Over a hundred years
ago, the California Supreme Court in Hambey v. Wise (1919) 181 Cal. 286,
289, discussed the contours of the “part performance of the contract as to take
it out of the operation of the statute” of frauds.  The High Court’s ruling offers guidance on the
meaning of the phrase “actual, visible, notorious, and exclusive.”  Hambey entered into an oral agreement to
purchase land owned by Wise.  At the time
of the agreement, the land was actually possessed by a tenant named Wood.  Hambey knew of Wood and knew that Wood
possessed the subject property.  After
Hambey and Wise entered the oral agreement, Hambey told Wood he was now the
owner of the property and falsely claimed to have a deed of title.  Hambey and Wood then entered into a written
agreement wherein Wood would continue to lease the property from Hambey.  Wood later learned the agreement between
Hambey and Wise was an oral agreement. 
With that knowledge, Wood convinced Wise to sell the property to Wood
for a greater amount.  Wood then obtained
and recorded the deed of title.  Despite
recordation of the deed, Hambey demanded that Wise convey the land pursuant to
the oral agreement.  Wise refused.  Hambey then sued Wise and Wood for specific
performance of the oral agreement.  At
trial, the court found Hambey could not prove his oral agreement based on part
performance because Hambey never took actual possession of the property.  The California Supreme Court affirmed.  
 
The High Court made
several observations on the law on partial performance:  
 
It only remains to consider whether or not the
nature of Hambey's possession was such as to satisfy the requirement of the
statute. In considering this question, it is not to be forgotten that equity is
after all bound by the statute of frauds and that in general relief is given
against the statute only in two classes of cases, first, where to allow the
statute to be set up would be to secure to the party relying upon it the fruits
of actual fraud, and, second, where to allow the statute to be set up would place
the party resisting it in an inequitable position, it appearing further that
there is evidence just as good as a writing of the agreement between the
parties. (Fry on Specific Performance, 5th ed., secs. 584, 585.) In the absence
of actual fraud, the question here presented is whether or not Hambey's
possession of the land at any time before the conveyance to Wood was such as to
place him in an inequitable position if precluded from proving his oral
contract and whether or not it was also such as to furnish evidence just as
good as a writing of the agreement between 
Himself and Wise.  
 
The inequitable situation which is contemplated by the cases
holding that the vendee's possession will suffice to take a contract for the
sale of land out of the statute of frauds is the vendee's liability to an
action for trespass if he is not allowed to prove his oral contract. The
evidence just as good as a writing contemplated by those cases is the
visibility and notoriety of an actual possession manifesting clearly and
unequivocally a new and distinctive ownership. [Citation.] This Court, in Davis v.
Judson, 159 Cal.
121, 132, [113 Pac. 147, 152], expressly holding that a nominal or merely technical
possession was not sufficient, laid down the rule that the possession which
must be taken in order to meet the equitable requirement of part performance,
and warrant specific performance of the contract, is actual possession by the
vendee. The ground upon which possession, as constituting part performance and
authorizing specific performance, is supported, is that the vendee would be
exposed to liability as a trespasser, if he could not invoke the protection of
the contract.
(Hambey, supra, 181 Cal. at 289–290.)
 
Using the litmus test
set out in Hambey to discern sufficiency of possession – that being the
trespasser test – Plaintiff prevails.  Without
an ownership interest, Plaintiff would be a trespasser.  In other words, actual, visible, notorious possession
is the key inquiry.  Here, Plaintiff alleges
actual possession which was open, notorious, and continuous for over eleven
(11) years.  (FAC, ¶ 28.)  Plaintiff’s possession was concurrent with
Defendant’s co-ownership of the property. 
Defendant does not offer any authority that joint possession operates to
defeat the doctrine of part performance. 

 
The demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.[4]
 
2.     
First Cause of Action for Partition 
 
“Partition is a
statutory action.” (Jacquemart v. Jacquemart (1956) 142 Cal.App.2d 794,
796.)  As is relevant here, “[a]
partition action may be commenced and maintained by any of the following
persons: (1) A coowner of personal property; (2) An owner of an estate of
inheritance, an estate for life, or an estate for years in real property where
such property or estate therein is owned by several persons concurrently or in
successive estates.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.010, subd. (a).) 
 
Defendant argues the First Cause of Action fails
because she has no current interest in the property and thus lacks standing to
seek partition.  Defendant further argues
the claim is barred  by the Statute of
Frauds because it is based on an invalid oral agreement.  
 
Both arguments fail. 
The FAC alleges Plaintiff had a life estate[5] in the Samoa
Property.  Plaintiff has standing to seek
partition.  (FAC, ¶¶ 32-34.)  As discussed above, the court considered and
rejected Defendant’s Statute of Frauds challenge because the FAC sufficiently
alleges part performance. 
 
Defendant argues
that a life estate can only be transferred by writing and cites Lewis v.
Brown (1913) 22 Cal.App.38 in support. 
Lewis states, in relevant part, that “oral testimony cannot be
considered as against the written terms of a deed for the purpose of limiting
or qualifying the estate thereby granted or created.”  (Lewis, at p. 43.)  However, in Lewis, the Court of Appeal
did not consider whether part performance created an exception to the written terms
of a deed.  Here, Plaintiff alleges she relied
on the oral agreement and partly performed thereon.  This accords with case law preceding and
following Lewis.  (See, e.g., Husheon
v. Kelley (1912) 162 Cal. 656, 662 [“An executed written conveyance of real
estate, in consideration of the promise by the grantee to perform services,
cannot be set aside by the grantor on the ground that the obligation of the
grantee is not the subject of specific performance. [Citation.] Where the
conveyance is oral, instead of written, the case is not different, if there has
been such part performance as to take the case out of the operation of section
1971 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”]; Halloran v. Isaacson (1949) 95
Cal.App.2d 357, 367 [agreeing with appellant that Bekins v. Smith (1918)
37 Cal.App. 222 is “authority for the statement that an oral transfer of an
estate in land may be made effectual by taking possession of and performance by
the grantee of acts in reliance on the grant.”].) 
 
The demurrer to the First Cause of Action is
OVERRULED.
 
3.     
Third
Cause of Action for Fraud
 
The elements of
promissory fraud are: 1) a promise made regarding a material fact;
2)¿promisor’s lack of any intention of performing at the time of making the
promise, based upon: a)¿specific factual circumstances beyond contract breach;
or b) inferring a contemporaneous intent not to perform; 3) the promise was
made with an intent to induce action by plaintiff; 4) plaintiff reasonably
relied on the promise; 5) defendant did not perform the promised act; 6)
plaintiff was injured/harmed; and 7) plaintiff’s reliance on defendant’s
promise was a substantial factor in causing the harm.  (CACI No. 1902.) ¿In
California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled¿with
specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.¿(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino¿v.
Bank of America¿(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Fraud allegations need
not be liberally construed, general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud
is insufficient, and every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged fully, factually and specifically.  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams &
Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331; see also Quelimane Co., Inc.
v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47 [explaining the rule
of particularity in pleading is specific to fraud and “is required to enable
the court to determine, on the basis of the pleadings alone, whether a
foundation existed for the charge ...”].) 
 
            Defendant argues the Third Cause of
Action fails because the FAC does not identify any promise Defendant made to
Plaintiff.  In support, Defendant focuses
on the allegations set forth in paragraph 52 of the FAC, which do not identify
any promises made.  However, Defendant
unduly focuses on paragraph 52.  The FAC does
allege specific promises Defendant made to Plaintiff which, as Plaintiff
contends, were false at the time they were made.  Those allegations include Defendant’s
continued assurance that the parties were co-owners and intended to live the
rest of their lives at the Samoa Property (FAC, ¶ 34) and Defendant giving
Plaintiff a life estate in the property (FAC, ¶ 32).  The Fourth Cause of Action is adequately
pled.
 
            The demurrer to the Third Cause of
Action is OVERRULED.
 
4.     
Fifth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)¿ 
¿ 
A cause of action
for declaratory relief should not be used as a duplicate cause of action for
the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of action. 
(General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465,
470.)¿¿Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past
wrongs are involved.”¿ (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation
marks omitted.)¿ 
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s declaratory relief
claim is duplicative of her partition and breach of contract claims.  Further, it involves the past wrong of
repudiation of the alleged oral agreement. 
As such, the Fifth Cause of Action is deficient.[6]  The demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the First, Second, Third and Fourth Causes
of Action is overruled.
 
The demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is sustained.  Leave to amend is denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve her Answer to the FAC
within 10 days of this order. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   March 1, 2024                                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


