  Case Number:  23TRCV01411    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
BLADIMIR
  GONZALEZ and NANCY BRUNDA AGUILA,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02926




 
v.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted




 
HONDA
  MOTOR COMPANY, LTD; AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC., HONDA NORTH AMERICA,
  INC., and HONDA OF AMERICA MANUFACTURING, INC.; and DOES 1 to 100, Inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             November 14, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:          Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. 
 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs Bladimir Gonzalez
and Nancy Brunda Aguila
 
HEARING: MOTION TO APPLY COLORADO LAW
The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
RULING
            The Court grants the Motion to Apply
Colorado Law.
 
BACKGROUND
            On May 3, 2023, Plaintiffs Bladimir Gonzalez and
Nancy Brunda Aguila filed the Complaint against Defendants Honda Motor Company,
Ltd, American Honda Motor Company, Inc., Honda North America, Inc., And Honda
of America Manufacturing, Inc. alleging causes of action for strict product
liability, negligent product liability, exemplary damages, and loss of
consortium arising from an alleged rollover incident.
 
            On October 7, 2024, Defendant,
American Honda Motor Company, filed the instant Motion to Apply Colorado Law.
 
            On November 1, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the Opposition.
 
            On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed
the Reply.
            
Trial
is set for September 15, 2025.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“When a case involves a significant
relationship to more than one state, the court selects the appropriate state
law to apply to the case.  (Hurtado v. Superior Court (1974) 11
Cal.3d 574, 579-80.)  When there is no choice of law agreement, but the
action involves the significant interests of another state, the court may
analyze the governmental interests of the various jurisdictions involved to
select the most appropriate law.  (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v.
Superior Court (2001) 24 Cal.4th 906, 915.) 
 
Choice-of-law arguments are determined by a
three-part test known as the “governmental interest” analysis.  “First,
the court determines whether the relevant law of each of the potentially
affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular issue in question is the
same or different.  Second, if there is a difference, the court examines
each jurisdiction’s interest in the application of its own law under the
circumstances of the particular case to determine whether a true conflict
exists.  Third, if the court finds that there is a true conflict, it
carefully evaluates and compares the nature and strength of the interest of
each jurisdiction in the application of its own law “to determine which state’s
interest would be more impaired if its policy were subordinated to the policy
of the other state” [citation] and then ultimately applies “the law of the
state whose interest would be more impaired if its law were not applied.” (McCann
v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48 Cal.4th 68, 87-88.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Defendants request the Court apply
Colorado law to the current dispute. 
This case arises out of a car incident occurring in Colorado on June 2,
2021. Plaintiff, who was a Colorado resident at the time, was riding in the
front seat of an Acura TL when it collided with a delineator post and
rolled over, causing Plaintiff serious injuries.
 
            Conflict of law
 
            Plaintiff stipulates that the
relevant law is different in California and Colorado. Therefore, the Court
finds that there is a conflict of law between California and Colorado.
 
            True Conflict
 
            The second step of the governmental
interest test requires the Court to examine “each jurisdiction's interest in
the application of its own law in the circumstances of the particular case to
determine whether a true conflict exists.” (Kearney v. Salomon Smith Barney,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 95, 107-108.) If a conflict exists, then the Court
shall weigh the two interests; if the conflict is a false conflict, as only one
state has an interest in the case, then the state with an interest in the case
laws will govern. (McCann, supra, 48
Cal.4th 68, 90.)
 
            Defendant argues that Colorado law,
not California law, should apply because Colorado has a predominant interest in
regulating products and compensating residents for injuries occurring within
its borders. (Kasel v. Remington Arms Co. (1972) 24 Cal.App.3d
711.)
Since the product was used in Colorado, and both the incident and the involved
parties are based in Colorado, Colorado has a vested interest in applying its
laws, which include limitations on damages for noneconomic losses to protect
residents’ welfare.
 
Defendant
contends that California lacks a comparable interest, even though Defendant is
incorporated there. California courts have consistently ruled against extending
California law to out-of-state injuries simply because a corporation is
headquartered there. (Howe v. Diversified Builders, Inc. (1968) 262 Cal.
App.2d 741, 745-746.) Applying California law, in this case, would merely
facilitate forum shopping, as Plaintiff’s claims are tied solely to Colorado.
 
Plaintiffs
argue that California has a legitimate interest in this case because Defendant has
been a California corporation since 1959, making it appropriate for the state
to oversee matters involving its resident corporations. They contend that the
forum-shopping accusation is unfounded; rather than seeking a favorable
jurisdiction, they chose California, Defendant’s home venue, to ensure
jurisdictional clarity. Plaintiffs emphasize that bringing the case to
California aligns with legal standards and is not an attempt to avoid other
jurisdictions. Thus, they argue that trying the case in California is justified
and not an act of forum shopping.
 
            While Plaintiffs argue that they are
not forum shopping and instead filed the lawsuit in California against a
California Company, they provide no argument against the Defendant's
contentions that Colorado has an interest in the case.
 
            The Court finds that Colorado has an
interest in regulating a product that caused injury to a Colorado resident
while being driven on a Colorado road. However, California also has an interest
in regulating corporations headquartered in California that also sell cars in
California. Therefore, a true conflict exists regarding the instant case.
 
            Impairment 
 
            If the court finds
that there is a true conflict, it carefully evaluates and compares the nature
and strength of the interest of each jurisdiction in the application of its own
law “to determine which state’s interest would be more impaired if its policy
were subordinated to the policy of the other state” [citation] and then
ultimately applies “the law of the state whose interest would be more impaired
if its law were not applied.” (McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th 68,
87-88.) 
 
            Defendant argues that
Colorado’s interest in applying its laws to this case outweighs any interest
California may have, as the crash and resulting injuries occurred within
Colorado’s borders and involved Colorado residents. Defendant notes that states
hold a predominant interest in regulating activities within their own territory,
particularly when injuries occur there. (McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th 68,
101.)  Because all parties involved are
Colorado residents, California’s interest is minimal. Applying Colorado law
respects Colorado’s authority to determine the consequences of actions and
limit liability for incidents within its jurisdiction. Therefore, Defendant
asserts that Colorado law should govern the case.
 
            Plaintiffs argue that
California law should apply in this case due to California’s strong interest in
regulating the conduct of its resident corporations and deterring negligent
actions that could lead to injuries nationwide. (Hurtado v. Superior Court (1974)
11 Cal.3d 574, 583-584.) As Defendant has been a California corporation since
1959, Plaintiffs contend that California has a vested interest in holding it
accountable for allegedly defective products distributed through the U.S.
market, including Colorado. Plaintiffs emphasize that California courts
prioritize California law when it serves to deter harmful practices by in-state
manufacturers, regardless of where the injury occurs. (Grimshaw v. Ford
Motor Co. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 757, 820.)
 
            While Plaintiff has
proven that California has an interest in holding Corporations incorporated in
California accountable for products placed in the stream of commerce, when
deciding on a choice of law motion, the Court looks to which state’s interest would
be most impaired. (McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th 68, 87-88.) Defendant has
shown that states hold a predominant interest in regulating activities in their
state. (Id. at 101.) Here, the crash happened in Colorado, the car was
sold in Colorado, and the injured party was a Colorado resident. Furthermore,
the car was developed and manufactured in Ohio, not California. Thus, the Court
finds that Colorado’s interest would be more impaired if the Court used
California law than vice versa.
 
            Full Faith and
Credit Clause
 
            Plaintiffs argue that
only California law should apply in this case. In Phillips Petroleum Co. v.
Shutts, the Supreme Court ruled that a Kansas court could exercise personal
jurisdiction over a nationwide class of plaintiffs, but applying Kansas law to
all claims went too far. (Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts (1985) 472
U.S. 797, 799.) Plaintiffs highlight the Court’s observation that the burdens
on an out-of-state defendant are significantly greater than those on an absent
plaintiff, underscoring that due process protects defendants from being subject
to laws of unrelated states without proper connections. Id.
 
Plaintiffs assert that because Defendant is a
California corporation and due process limits the application of foreign state
laws to cases without significant ties, only California law is constitutionally
appropriate in this matter. The U.S. Constitution’s Due Process and Full Faith
and Credit Clauses, they argue, preclude applying any state law other than
California’s.
 
            “For a State's
substantive law to be selected in a constitutionally permissible manner, that
State must have a significant contact or significant aggregation of contacts,
creating state interests, such that choice of its law is neither arbitrary nor
fundamentally unfair.” (Phillips Petroleum Co., supra, 472 U.S. 797, 818.)

 
            Here, Colorado has
significant contacts with the instant case. The crash happened in Colorado, the
car was sold in Colorado, and the injured party was a Colorado resident. Thus,
the Court finds that the Full Faith and Credit Clause does not prohibit the Court
from following Colorado Law.
 
            Therefore, the Court
grants the Motion to Apply Colorado Law.