  Case Number:  20STCV10214    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  March 13, 2020, Plaintiff Michael Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for  general negligence and premises liability.  On  April 23, 2020, Defendant filed an answer.  On  April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendant and  Does 1-50 for negligence.  On December  23, 2024, Defendant filed an answer to the first amended complaint.  On  November 15, 2024, Defendant filed a single motion to compel Plaintiff to  undergo independent medical examinations by  burn specialist Michael Brones, M.D., urology specialist Michael Gazzaniga, M.D., and psychiatric/neurology  specialist Dominick Addario, M.D.  (Defendant should have filed a  separate motion for each examination sought.)  The  motion was set for hearing on January 3, 2025.  On December 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition.  On December 26, 2024,  Defendant filed a reply.  Trial  is scheduled for January 13, 2025.  LEGAL STANDARD Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides:  “(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a  physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with  Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of  court.  “(b) A motion for an  examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,  conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and  the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the  examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration  under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the  person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.310.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides:  “(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or  mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.  “(b) If a party stipulates as provided in subdivision  (c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose  personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional  circumstances.  “(c) A stipulation by a party under this subdivision  shall include both of the following:  “(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for  mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the  physical injuries claimed.  “(2) A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding  this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support  of the claim for damages.  “(d) An order granting a physical or mental  examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the  examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and  procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.  “(e) If the place of the examination is more than 75  miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it  shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The court determines that there is good cause for  the travel involved.  “(2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by  the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for  travel to the place of examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.320.)  DISCUSSION  Defendant  asks the Court for leave to conduct independent medical examinations of  Plaintiff by doctors who specialize in burns, urology, and psychiatry/neurology.  The Court denies the motion because the  deadline for the Court to hear discovery motions has expired.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).)  By  way of background, on July 12, 2022, Defendant’s expert Michael Brones, M.D., a  plastic surgeon and burn specialist, examined Plaintiff and evaluated his burn  injuries and skin pigmentation problems.   According to Defendant, Dr. Brones did not evaluate Plaintiff’s alleged  sexual dysfunction and mental suffering.  Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff has  never been evaluated by a urologist or a psychiatrist.  On  December 20, 2023, Defendant served a demand for a medical examination of Plaintiff  by urology specialist Michael Gazzaniga, M.D., to take place on January 30,  2024.  Plaintiff was not required to  attend this examination unless Defendant obtained leave of Court under Code of  Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (a).  The examination by Dr. Gazzaniga scheduled  for January 30, 2024 did not take place.  Over  eight months later, on October 8, 2024, Defendant’s counsel asked Plaintiff’s  counsel to agree to put Dr. Gazzaniga’s examination  of Plaintiff back on calendar.  (Exh. C.)  On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel  stated, “We do not agree to any further examinations.”  (Exh. C.)  Defendant filed this motion requesting leave of Court to have Dr. Gazzaniga examine Plaintiff on November 15, 2024.  Defendant recognizes that “Plaintiff’s mental condition has been ‘in controversy’ for a long  time.”  (Points and Authorities p. 7.)  But Defendant is only now asking for leave  to examine Plaintiff about that condition.  Defendant  contends that the July 2022 examination by Dr. Brones took place more than two  years ago.  However, Defendant has not shown that it sought another examination by  Dr. Brones before filing this motion.  When  Defendant filed this motion, trial was scheduled to begin on January 13, 2025.  The hearing on the motion was set for hearing  on January 3, 2025, after the discovery motion cut-off date.  “[I]f  a party properly notices a discovery motion to be heard on or before the  discovery motion cutoff date, that party has a right . . . to have the  motion heard.  By negative implication, a  party who notices a discovery motion to be heard after the discovery  motion cutoff date does not have a right to have the motion heard.” (Pelton-Shepherd  Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th  1568, 1586, original emphasis.)  The  court may, however, hear the motion after the discovery motion cut-off date if  the court first grants a motion to reopen discovery under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2024.050.  (Ibid.)   Here,  the Court has not granted a motion to reopen discovery under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2024.050.  Although  Defendant filed an ex parte application to continue the trial and related dates,  the Court denied the application, observing that Defendant had not shown that  it acted diligently.  Based  on this record, the Court finds that the discovery motion cutoff date  established by Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (a),  prevents the Court from hearing or granting Defendant’s motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s motion to compel Plaintiff to  undergo three independent medical examinations before trial.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.