 Case Number:  22STCV16566    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On May
18, 2022, Plaintiff Daniel Neman (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants La Mesa Restaurant and Lounge and Does 1-50 for general negligence
and intentional tort. 
On
July 22, 2022, Defendant 1430 N. Cahuenga Partners, L.P.,
dba La Mesa Restaurant and Lounge (“La Mesa”) filed an answer. 
On
October 17, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Power
House Security (“Power”) as Doe 1. 
On
May 3, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Power House
Security LLC (“Power LLC”) as Doe 2. 
On
October 23, 2024, the clerk entered Power LLC’s default. 
On
October 28, 2024, La Mesa filed a motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint.  The motion was set for
hearing on January 3, 2025.  No
opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is current scheduled for May 12, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
La
Mesa asks the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against Power LLC. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
          “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”  (Silver Org. Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  “Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development
Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) 
DISCUSSION 
La
Mesa asks the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against Power LLC for express
indemnity, implied indemnity, equitable indemnity, breach of contract,
contribution, and declaratory relief.  La
Mesa has attached a copy of the proposed cross-complaint to its motion. 
The cross-complaint is transactionally related to the main action.  The Court has no information suggesting that La Mesa has filed its motion in bad
faith.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION
 The
Court GRANTS Defendant 1430 N. Cahuenga Partners, L.P.,
dba La Mesa Restaurant and Lounge’s motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Power House Security LLC.  The Court orders Defendant 1430 N. Cahuenga
Partners, L.P., dba La Mesa Restaurant and Lounge to file and serve the cross-complaint
within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.