 Case Number:  22STCV26585    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Case number 22STCV26585 
On
August 16, 2022, Plaintiff Rosalio Cibrian, Jr. (“Cibrian”) filed an action
against Defendants Saul Arevalo, Valos Towing and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle
tort and general negligence. (Case number 22STCV26585.) 
On
October 21, 2022, Defendants Saul Arevalo (“Arevalo”) and Velos Towing, Inc.
(erroneously sued and served as Valos Towing) (“Velos”) filed an answer. 
On
November 3, 2023, Arevalo and Velos filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Dario Alvarenga (“Alvarenga”) and Roes 1-10 for
indemnification, contribution, declaratory relief, and property damage.  On January 2, 2024, Alvarenga filed an answer
to the cross-complaint. 
B.   Case number 22STCV27761 
On
August 25, 2022, Alvarenga filed an action against Defendants Arevalo, Valos
Towing, Does 1-10, the remaining employees and agents of Valos Towing, and Does
11-100 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. (Case number
22STCV27761.) 
On
February 24, 2023, Arevalo and Velos filed an answer. 
C.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases 
On
December 29, 2023, the Court found that case numbers 22STCV26585 and
22STCV27761 are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule
3.300(a).  Case number 22STCV26585 became
the lead case. The cases were assigned to Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse for all purposes. 
Also
on December 29, 2023, the Court consolidated the cases for all purposes based
on the parties’ stipulation. Case number 22STCV26585 remained the lead case. 
D.   Post-consolidation proceedings 
On
July 3, 2024, the Court granted Alvarenga’s motion for a determination that the
settlement between Cibrian and Alvarenga was made in good faith. The Court
dismissed all pending and future claims against Alvarenga by the parties served
with the motion (to the extent those claims arose from the facts giving rise to
this case), including cross-complaints for equitable indemnity. 
Trial
is currently set for April 3, 2025. 
E.   This motion 
On
April 19, 2024, Arevalo and Velos (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion for
summary judgment of Alvarenga’s complaint. 
The motion was set for hearing on January 3, 2025.  Alvarenga has not filed an opposition. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to grant summary judgment of Alvarenga's complaint. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
          Moving Defendants refer to a request for judicial notice
but no request for judicial notice is included in their moving papers.  “Any request for judicial notice must be made
in a separate document listing the specific items for which notice is requested
. . . .”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1113(l).)  Moving Defendants do not
appear to have made their judicial notice request in a separate document.  The Court denies the request. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“ ‘
“[A] defendant moving for summary judgment based upon the assertion of an
affirmative defense ... ‘has the initial burden to show that undisputed facts
support each element of the affirmative defense’ .... If the defendant does not
meet this burden, the motion must be denied.” [Citations.]’ ” (Shiver v.
Laramee (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 395, 400 (Shiver), quoting Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 467-468.) “ ‘[T]he
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show there is one or more triable issues of
material fact regarding the defense after the defendant meets the burden of
establishing all the elements of the affirmative defense. [Citations.]’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Jessen v. Mentor Corp. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1484.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence
‘The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are
“(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)
the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
Alvarenga’s
complaint alleged that on August 29, 2020, at the intersection of
Roscoe Boulevard and Louis [sic] Avenue in Los Angeles, Defendants
negligently, carelessly, recklessly, unskillfully, unlawfully, tortiously,
wantonly, and wrongfully entrusted, permitted, managed, serviced, repaired,
inspected, maintained, operated, controlled and drove their vehicle, causing a
collision between Plaintiff’s vehicle and Defendants’ vehicle and injuring Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
The
incident occurred on August 29, 2020 at or near the intersection of Louise
Avenue and Roscoe Boulevard.  At the time
of the accident, Plaintiff was driving his vehicle northbound on Louise Avenue
with the intention of turning left onto Roscoe Boulevard.  A tow truck was approaching southbound on
Louise Avenue. 
The
intersection of Roscoe Boulevard and Louise Avenue is controlled by a standard
red, yellow green light.  There is no
left turn arrow for Louise Avenue traffic wanting to turn left onto Roscoe
Boulevard. 
When
the light turned green, Plaintiff drove into the intersection and stopped.
Plaintiff saw Arevalo’s tow truck approaching
southbound.  Believing that Arevalo was
going to turn right, Plaintiff proceeded with his left turn. Plaintiff believed
Arevalo’s truck was approaching in a right turn only lane. The impact occurred
in the intersection. 
C.   Moving Defendants have not carried their initial
burden on summary judgment 
Moving
Defendants argue the Court should grant summary judgment because Alvarenga “cannot
establish any fact or produce any evidence that DEFENDANTS committed any act or
omission which would support plaintiff's causes of action against DEFENDANTS.”  (Motion p. 3.)  Moving Defendants point to Alvarenga’s deposition testimony that he saw Arevalo’s
tow truck approaching from the other direction with a green light while Alvarenga
was preparing to make his left turn without the benefit of a left-turn arrow.  According to Moving Defendants, this evidence
establishes as a matter of law that Alvarenga violated a Vehicle Code provision
requiring left-turning vehicles to yield the right-of-way to oncoming traffic. 
While
Moving Defendants’ evidence supports their defense, it does not negate the
possibility that Alvarenga could present evidence
supporting his claim that Arevalo was negligent and that Arevalo’s negligence
caused or contributed to the accident.  Alvarenga
is not required to present such evidence unless Moving Defendants carry their initial
burden on summary judgment of showing that Alvarenga cannot present evidence supporting
his claims.  Moving Defendants have not
carried this burden. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants Saul Arevalo
and Velos Towing, Inc. (erroneously sued and served as Valos Towing). 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.