  Case Number:  24NNCV00949    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PARK MARINO CONVALESCENT CENTER, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SAN
   MARINO GARDENS WELLNESS CENTER, LP,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV00949
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   7, 2024




 


)


 



 
This is a commercial unlawful detainer
action filed by plaintiff Park Marino Convalescent Center, Inc. (“Plaintiff”). Defendant
San Marino Gardens Wellness Center, LP (“Defendant”) moves for order awarding $64,522.50
in attorney fees and $42.15 in costs after the Court sustained its demurrer
without leave to amend on June 10, 2024. In its order sustaining the demurrer,
the Court held that Plaintiff’s notice was insufficient because it did not
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 1161(3) and inform Defendant that
it had “three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial
holidays” to cure the alleged breach or quit the premises. Instead, the notice
stated that Defendant had “three court days” to perform certain purported
obligations regarding the roof of the premises or quit. 
Attorney fees are recoverable as costs
if permitted under contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(a)(10).) Civil Code section 1717(a) provides: “In any action on a contract,
where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which
are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in
the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in
addition to other costs. . . . Reasonable attorney's fees shall be fixed by the
court, and shall be an element of the costs of suit.” “The court, upon notice
and motion by a party, shall determine who is the party prevailing on the
contract for purposes of this section, whether or not the suit proceeds to
final judgment.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(1).) Other than in situations
not applicable here, “the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party
who recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may
also determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes
of this section.” (Ibid.) Trial courts determine who is the prevailing
party based on an evaluation of whether a party prevailed on a practical level.
Among the factors the trial court should consider is the extent to which each
party has realized its litigation objectives.
(Regency Midland Construction, Inc. v. Legendary
Structures Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 994, 1000, as modified on denial of
reh'g (Nov. 26, 2019).) “If neither party achieves a complete victory on all
the contract claims, it is within the discretion of the trial court to
determine which party prevailed on the contract or whether, on balance, neither
party prevailed sufficiently to justify an award of attorney fees.” (Scott
Co. v. Blount, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1103, 1109.)
Defendant argues that it is entitled to
attorney’s’ fees pursuant to Section 18.8 of the operative Sublease, which
states:
“18.8.       Attorneys’ Fees. In the event legal
action is commenced arising from or related to, or to enforce or interpret, or
for breach of any provision of this Lease, the prevailing party shall be
entitled to recover from the losing party costs and expenses incurred, not
limited to taxable costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
prevailing party, including those incurred in connection with any appeal, in
addition to all other relief and remedies to which the prevailing party may be
entitled . . . . The amount of the attorneys’ fees and expenses shall be
determined by the court or arbitral tribunal.”
 
(Motion, Lockard Decl. ¶ 20, Ex. 1 at Ex. B.) Defendant
argues it is the prevailing party in this unlawful detainer action because it
remains in possession of the premises whereas Plaintiff sought eviction and
failed. Defendant also seeks to recover fees for all work performed in
analyzing the Sublease and the underlying sublease dispute, including work which
predated the filing of the unlawful detainer complaint.  
          Plaintiff
opposes the motion on the grounds that Defendant is not a “prevailing party” because
the underlying contract claims relating to the Sublease (i.e., the dispute over
which party is responsible for repairing and replacing the roof) are still
being litigated in a related case, Case No. 24NNCV01000 (“Related Case”), which
was filed by Defendant on April 16, 2024, one day after this unlawful detainer
action was initiated. (Opp., pp. 8-9.) Plaintiff argues that since litigation
of the parties’ underlying contractual obligations is ongoing, there is no
prevailing party “on the contract” and hence, no basis for awarding attorney
fees under Civil Code section 1717. 
Plaintiff relies on Harris v. Rojas
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 817, in which the Second Appellate District affirmed a
trial court’s decision ruling that there was no prevailing party in a
landlord-tenant dispute. In Harris, the tenant and landlord each filed
their own action arising from the same lease and the two cases were assigned to
different courtrooms because neither party filed a notice of related case. (Harris,
66 Cal.App.5th at p. 819.) The Harris court held that the trial court
did not abuse its discretion when it determined that the tenant was not the
“prevailing party” after considering his litigation objectives (which appeared
to be purely monetary) and the fact that the jury only awarded the party $5-6,000
out of the $200,000 requested. (Id. at pp. 825-826.) Quantitative
aspects aside, the court of appeal also referred to a “different analytical
path” which “aggregate[d] the judgments from the two cases that should have
been unified by a notice of related case” and considered the “net winner.” (Id.,
p. 826.) “When determining who prevailed, it is logical to combine the results
from the two related but wrongly segregated cases.” (Harris, p. 827.)
Plaintiff also relies on DisputeSuite.com, LLC v Scoreinc.com (2017) 2
Cal.5th 968 (“DisputeSuite”), in which the California Supreme Court held
that a trial court correctly concluded that no party had prevailed on a
contract where there were remaining contract claims to be resolved in another
action, and where the party seeking fees had simply obtained a victory on an
“interim motion” without disposing of the underlying contractual dispute. (DisputeSuite,
supra, 2 Cal.5th at pp. 977, 981 [trial court properly considered that contract
claims remained unresolved in Florida in determining that neither party had yet
prevailed on the contract].) 
          On reply,
Defendant argues that the dismissal of the unlawful detainer action on
procedural grounds was not an “interim” victory but a definitive conclusion to
Plaintiff’s attempts at eviction. Plaintiff cites to PNEC Corp. v. Meyer (2010)
190 Cal.App.4th 66 and Kandy Kiss of Cal. V. Tex-Ellent (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 604, arguing that courts have found a prevailing party in spite of
the prospect of pursuing the same claim in a different forum. 
However, in accordance with DisputeSuite
and Harris, the Court concludes that there is no prevailing party here
for purposes of fees under Civil Code 1717. The substance of the Related Case which
remains pending shows that Defendant’s ultimate litigation objectives have not
been achieved. Indeed, Plaintiff’s basis for unlawful detainer was Defendant’s
alleged obligation to repair or replace the roof. Even Defendant’s fee request
of over $60,000 demonstrates that the scope of the litigation here is broader
than this unlawful detainer and comprises of both this case and the Related Case.
The fact that Defendant remains in possession at this time does not indicate
that any of the substantive contractual disputes regarding the parties’
obligations regarding the roof have been definitively resolved. Therefore, Defendant’s
motion for fees is DENIED. Defendant may still recover $42.15 in costs under
section 1032, as the definition of “prevailing party” for purposes of costs
includes “a defendant in whose factor a dismissal is entered.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).) 
Dated
this 7th
day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 