 Case Number:  24NNCV02735    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



STEVEN A. SOMMERFELD, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC, et al,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01532
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S
   PERSON MOST QUALIFIED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   7, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 5, 2024, plaintiff Steven A.
Sommerfeld (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant General Motors,
LLC (“Defendant”) arising from alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“SBA”).
Plaintiff alleges that on or about
October 28, 2023, he purchased a 2023 Chevrolet Corvette (“Subject Vehicle”) which
suffered from nonconformities and that Defendant has been unable to or refused
to conform it to the applicable express and implied warranties under the Act.
(Compl., ¶¶ 4; 10-14.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant has failed to
and refuses to repurchase the vehicle and make restitution. (Compl., ¶¶ 14-18.)

On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for an order compelling Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) to
appear for deposition and produce documents. The operative deposition notice
identifies 7 categories of testimony and 10 categories of documents. (Motion,
Ex. G.) 
On October 25, 2024, Defendant filed
its opposition brief and a separate statement. 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
If a party or an officer, director,
managing agent, employee of a party, or person designated as the person most
qualified to testify fails to appear for examination or produce documents, the
demanding party may move to compel attendance, testimony, and production. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff initially served a deposition
notice scheduling the deposition for July 29, 2024. (Motion, Ex. A.) On August
15, 2024, Defendant served objections. On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel made
several proposals in an email in order to proceed with the deposition and
requested defense counsel’s availability to meet and confer over the phone or
through Zoom. (Motion, Ex. C.) 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff served a First
Amended Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s PMQ. (Motion, Ex. D.) In response,
Defendant served objections on September 4, 2024. (Motion, Ex. E.) On September
5, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel again sent an email requesting a time to meet and
confer over the phone or through Zoom. (Motion, Ex. F.) 
On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff served
a Second Amended Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s PMQ. (Motion, Ex. G.)
Defendant served objections on September 25, 2024. (Motion, Ex. H.) 
On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email regarding Defendant’s objections and requested defense
counsel’s availability to meet and confer over the telephone or through Zoom. (Motion,
Ex. I.) Defense counsel responded to this email the same day and said he would
be available the next day due to the Court holiday. (Motion, Ex. J.) On
September 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email stating that he called
defense counsel but was not able to leave a message; Plaintiff’s counsel also
wrote, “Feel free to reach out when you are available.” (Motion Ex. K.) 
This motion was filed on October 10,
2024. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff satisfied
the requirement to meet and confer before filing this motion to compel. Plaintiff
sent multiple emails and attempted to discuss Defendant’s objections over the
phone or Zoom, but was ignored each time.         
Category Nos. 1 through 4, and 6
Plaintiff’s Category Nos. 1 through 4, and
6 pertain to Defendant’s decision not to repurchase or replace the Subject
Vehicle, as well as the Subject Vehicle’s repair history, any communications
about the Subject Vehicle between Defendant and any other person, and any investigation
performed to determine whether the Subject Vehicle qualified or repurchase or
replacement.   
In response, Defendant asserted various
objections but agreed, subject to those objections, to “produce a witness at a
mutually agreeable time and place to discuss the relevant and nonprivileged
aspects of [each] [c]ategory.” (Motion, Ex. H.) 
Since Defendant agrees to produce a
witness, the motion to compel is GRANTED with respect to these categories of
examination. 
RFP Nos. 1, 2, 4, 6, 8
These document requests ask for
documents and correspondence relating to the Subject Vehicle as well as
recalls, TSBs, and writings reviewed in deciding whether to repurchase or
replace the Subject Vehicle. As an initial matter, the Court limits the scope
of the definition of “Documents” so that Defendant must only produce internal
reports, not internal emails, and produce external emails such as those to or
from the Plaintiff, plaintiff’s counsel, and agencies such as the NHTSA.
Defendant states the Subject Vehicle
was repaired and serviced by an authorized GM repair facility and: (1) agrees
to comply “in part” by producing records already produced in response to
Plaintiff’s previously-served inspection demands or (2) refers to those previously-produced
documents. However, there is no indication that these are the only responsive
documents in their possession, custody, and control. Accordingly, the motion to
compel production is GRANTED. The objections that the requests are vague,
ambiguous, overbroad, unduly burdensome, oppressive, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, or seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information are OVERRULED. 
RFP No. 7
RFP No. 7 seeks “[a]ny recalls that
apply to the Subject Vehicle.” The motion to compel is DENIED because Defendant
states that the Subject Vehicle has no current record of field actions,
including recalls. 
Category Nos. 5 and 7; RFP Nos. 3, 5, and
9
These topics of examination and
document requests concern Defendant’s lemon law policies and procedures as well
as other vehicles which exhibited the same alleged nonconformities complained
of by Plaintiff, including the transmission. 
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel
and orders Defendant to produce a witness as well as its policy and procedure
documents for Song-Beverly Act compliance including any “buy back manual”
provided to decision makers would be ordered to be produced, subject to the
privilege limitations that communications with in-house counsel or outside
counsel would not be produced but identified in a privilege log. The discoverable
policies and procedures are limited to those applicable to California and the
time period when Plaintiff’s vehicle was subject to consideration for a buy
back. 
Any information about other vehicles is
limited to those sold in California which are the same year, make, and model of
the Subject Vehicle with complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by Plaintiff.

RFP
No. 10
This request for production demands
“[a] copy of any photographs or videos of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” Defendant has
stated that it is unaware of any responsive photographs or videos but that its
investigation and discovery is continuing. Insofar as Defendant’s investigation
leads to the discovery of such photographs and videos, the motion to compel
production is GRANTED and Defendant is ordered to produce them. 
Sanctions
Defendant failed to respond to
Plaintiff’s multiple attempts to meet and confer and to schedule the deposition
for a mutually agreeable date. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in
the amount of $1,800, consisting of 3 hours at an hourly rate of $475 and 1
hour at the rate of $375. Sanctions are to be paid within 20 days. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce a PMK within the next 60 days.
Sanctions are to be paid within 20 days. 
Dated
this 7th
day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 