  Case Number:  19STCV18995    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 25, 2023                                         TRIAL DATE:  April 17,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Edik Minassian v. Jadel Oneida Tejeda, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV18995
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Thomas
Sands, The Sands Law Group, APLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On May 16, 2023, Thomas Sands, counsel for Defendants, Jadel
Oneida Tejeda, Gor Karapetian, Ara Karapetian, and Narine Petrossian, filed these
Motions to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
These Motions were heard on July 17, 2023.  The Court could not grant the Motions because
they incorrectly indicated that the hearing was to take place in Stanley Mosk
Courthouse at 111 North Hill Street.  Given
the defective notices of motion and that, at the time of the hearing, trial was
scheduled for July 24, 2023, the parties stipulated to continue the trial date
to April 17, 2024, to allow Counsel to address the defect identified in the
Court’s order.
 
On October 5, 2023, Counsel filed amended Motions and proofs
of service showing Defendants were served with the motions.
 
The motions are unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the
client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052));
(3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other
parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Thomas Sands seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for each
Defendant for the following reason: “1. Client has declined to sign
substitution of attorney form thus necessitating the filing the current motion;
2. Client has failed to comply with full terms of the attorney client retainer
agreement; 3. Client has failed to provide requested documents, despite
numerous requests; 4. Counsel can no longer effectively represent client when
there are underlying concerns over clients ethical barometer thus becoming
prejudicial to counsels bar license; 5. Based upon the existing circumstances,
counsel has no choice but to move to the [sic] court requesting a withdrawal as
attorney of record for defendant.”  (MC-052.)   
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.).  
 
Petitioner has cured the defects noted in the Court’s
previous order.  The Court further finds Counsel
has properly served Defendants with these motions by mail.  The motion complies with California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
             The unopposed motion to be relieved as counsel
is granted and effective upon the filing of service of this signed order upon
Defendants.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 25,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 