 Case Number:  21STCV26629    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
25, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  January 2, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Gwendolyn Thomas v.
City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV26629
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL PMQ DEPOSITION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Gwendolyn Thomas
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On July 20, 2021, Plaintiff, Gwendolyn Thomas, initiated
this premises liability action against Defendants, City of Los Angeles, County
of Los Angeles, and Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“MTA”), arising from a trip and fall on an uneven sidewalk at or near an MTA
bus stop.
 
            Plaintiff noticed
MTA’s person(s) most qualified deposition on three occasions.  LACMTA objected to all three deposition
notices.  
 
            On October 3,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel the deposition of MTA’s person most
qualified.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions.
 
            LACMTA
filed an opposition and also seeks sanctions. 

 
            Plaintiff
has not replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)   
 
            Monetary
Sanctions¿ 
¿ 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court
to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
 
            “If
a motion under [Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order compelling MTA to produce a person most qualified for deposition
regarding the subject sidewalk and to produce documents responsive to the accompanying
request for production of documents.  
 
            MTA argues
the motion should be denied because plaintiff’s counsel did not engage in a
reasonable effort to meet and confer.[1]  The Court agrees.
 
            A motion to
compel deponent testimony and production shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450.)  A meet and confer declaration
in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff noticed MTA’s PMQ deposition on three occasions.  MTA responded with objections each time.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration, filed in
support of this motion, is devoid of facts showing any attempt was made to meet
and confer in good faith.  This finding
is also supported by a cursory review of the meet and confer letters Plaintiff
sent each time MTA objected to the deposition notices.  None of the meet and confer letters engage with
or otherwise acknowledge MTA’s objections. 
The motion is deficient.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Given the procedural defect, the Court cannot rule on
Plaintiff’s motion.  The hearing for the
motion is CONTINUED to November 29, 2023 at 1:30 PM in Department 27 of Spring
Street Courthouse. The parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding MTA’s
objections within 10 days of this order. 
If the issues are unresolved, Plaintiff may file a supplemental brief
outlining the issues no later than 9 court days before the hearing.  Plaintiff must include a meet and confer
declaration consistent with section 2016.040. 
MTA may file a response no later than 5 court days before the hearing.  The Court will consider the issue of
sanctions at the hearing.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   October 25,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


