 Case Number:  23STCV09280    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 25, 2023                                         TRIAL DATE:  October
23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Jaheim Martin v. Malin Asset Management, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV09280
 





















 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               N. Alex
Lopez, DeWitt Algorri & Algorri, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On September 6, 2023, N. Alex Lopez, counsel for Plaintiff, Jaheim
Martin, filed this Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the
client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
N. Alex Lopez seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for each
Defendant for the following reason: “A conflict of interest has arisen, the
substance of which cannot be disclosed to the court on the record due to
attorney-client privilege.  There has
been an irreparable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship necessitating
this motion, said conflict of interest was not caused or created in any manner
by your declarant herein.  Counsel
represents as an officer of the court that the provisions of the Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700 requires this application as the conflict has
only recently come about.”  (MC-052.)   
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.).  
 
Upon review, the Court finds the motion complies with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
             The unopposed motion to be relieved as counsel
is granted and effective upon the filing of service of this signed order upon Plaintiff
and all parties who have appeared..
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 25,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 