 Case Number:  23STCV00888    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
25, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE:  July 12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Roberto Miranda, et al. v. Marilin Ruiz, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV00888
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEMAND FOR INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
MOTIONS
TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Roberto Miranda, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants
Marilin Ruiz, et al.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On August 14,
2023, Plaintiffs, Roberto Miranda and Anabel Bautista, filed these motions[1]
to compel Defendants, Marilin Ruiz and Mancia Hipolito, to provide responses to
Plaintiff’s First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request
for Production of Documents, and to deem Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted
against Defendants.  Plaintiff seeks
sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of record.
                                                     
            Defense
counsel filed an omnibus declaration, stating that counsel anticipates serving
verified responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests by August 31, 2023.  Defense counsel also requests all sanctions be
imposed against defense counsel and not Defendants.
 
            Plaintiff filed
an omnibus reply, stating that verified responses were not received on August
31, 2023.
 
            The Court
rules as follows.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
RESPONSES 
 
            If a party
to whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order that the truth of the matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely
serve responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd.
(a).)    
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
 
            Sanctions
against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan Software
Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿ 
 
By
the terms of the statute, a trial court under section 2023.030(a) may not
impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless the court finds
that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct resulting in
sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against
a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery process,
monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney
advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's
actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an attorney's
advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,” the attorney
has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an attorney offers
sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the burden shifts to
the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend that conduct. (Id.
at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d
501.)¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            It is
uncontested that Plaintiffs properly served Defendants with the at-issue
discovery on May 3, 2023.  It is further
uncontested that Defendant have yet to serve verified responses.  (See Gevorkyan Decls.)  Plaintiffs are entitled to an order
compelling Defendants’ verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiffs’ First
Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production of Documents.¿ Plaintiffs are also entitled to an order deeming
admitted Request for Admissions, Set One, against Defendants.[2] 
 
             Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs
seek sanctions against Defendants and their counsel.  Given that Defendants have not provided
timely responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery, sanctions are warranted.  Indeed, in the context of requests for
admissions, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
Defense counsel has requested all sanctions be imposed against Defense
counsel only.  Accordingly, the Court
imposes sanctions against Defense counsel in the sum of $3,460, consisting of 5
hours of plaintiffs’ counsel’s hourly rate and $960 in filing fees.
 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motions
are granted.  Defendants Marilin Ruiz and
Mancia Hipolito, are ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiffs’
First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production of Documents.  Plaintiffs’
Requests for Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted against Defendant.
 
            The request
for sanctions is granted.  Defense
counsel is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,460 to Plaintiffs, by
and through their counsel.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 25,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties
in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 


