 Case Number:  24PSCV02239    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. and D.
Longo, LLC’s Demurrer and Judgment on the Pleadings to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Brian Jonathan Jimenez and Bertha
Jimenez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. and D.
Longo, LLC’s Demurrer and Judgment on the Pleadings to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in
Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendants Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. and D.
Longo, LLC’s Counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiffs Brian
Jonathan Jimenez and Bertha Jimenez’s Counsel regarding the Demurrer and Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings and to file a supplemental declaration describing
such meet and confer efforts, including whether the attempts were made by
telephone, video conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer and Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. In February 2021, Plaintiffs
Brian Jonathan Jimenez and Bertha Jimenez purchased a certified pre-owned 2020
Toyota Camry from Defendant D. Longo, LLC, doing business as Longo Toyota. The Jimenez
Plaintiffs allege the subject vehicle was covered by warranties issued by
Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (Toyota). Subsequently, the Jimenez
Plaintiffs allege the subject vehicle presented with numerous defects.
 
On July 11, 2024, the Jimenez Plaintiffs filed a complaint
against Toyota, Longo Toyota, and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) injunctive relief and damages pursuant
to the Consumers Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), (2) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq., (3) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17500 et seq., (4) violation of Vehicle Code section
11713, (5) violation of Vehicle Code section 11713.18, (6) declaratory relief,
and (7) breach of express and implied warranty in violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (Song-Beverly Act).
 
On
August 21, 2024, the Jimenez Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On October 28, 2024, Toyota and Longo Toyota filed the
present demurrer and motion for judgment on the pleadings. A hearing on the
present motions is set for December 10, 2024, along with a case management
conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service on December 11, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Toyota and Longo Toyota demur to the Jimenez
Plaintiffs’ entire FAC. For the following
reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Toyota and Longo Toyota’s counsel filed a declaration stating counsel
met and conferred through a letter dated September 20, 2024. (Guillot Decl., ¶
2, Ex. A.) Because written correspondence is not a code-compliant means of
meeting and conferring, a continuance of the hearing on the demurrer and motion
for judgment on the pleadings is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Toyota and
Longo Toyota’s demurrer and motion for
judgment on the pleadings are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Toyota
and Longo Toyota’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with the Jimenez
Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the demurrer and motion for judgment on the
pleadings and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and
confer efforts, including whether the attempts were made by telephone, video
conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days before the next
scheduled hearing on the demurrer and motion for judgment on the pleadings.