 Case Number:  21PSCV00656    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff City of El Monte’s Motion to File Supplemental
Complaint
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff City of El Monte’s Motion to File
Supplemental Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff
City of El Monte is ordered to file the proposed Supplemental Complaint
separately with the Court forthwith.
BACKGROUND
This is a nuisance abatement action. As a result of investigations
by its police department, the City of El Monte (the City) discovered an illegal
nightclub and marijuana grow operation in a warehouse within city limits
operating from June 1, 2020 to January 19, 2021.
On August 12, 2021, the City filed a complaint against Defendants Dale
Lue as the owner of the warehouse, Xinging Xu as the property manager for the
warehouse, Huan Li as the tenant of the warehouse, Andrew Yan and Zihang Zhang
as operators, and Caili Wang and Wenyun Chen as accomplices, as well as Does
1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) narcotics abatement, (2)
public nuisance, (3) violation of El Monte Municipal Code, (4) violation of
Unfair Competition Law (illegal cannabis cultivation), (5) violation of Unfair
Competition Law (operation of illegal nightclub), (6) violation of Unfair
Competition Law (illegal sale of Schedule III narcotics), and (7) violation of
MAUCRSA.
On
October 10, 2024, the City dismissed Wang from the present action. On October
21, 2024, the City dismissed Chen from the present action.
On November
14, 2024, the City filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is
set for December 10, 2024. A final status conference and OSC Re: Default
Judgment Setting is set for January 13, 2025, with a non-jury trial scheduled
for January 27, 2025.
ANALYSIS
The
City seeks leave to file a supplemental Complaint that alleges additional facts
about ongoing illicit marijuana cultivation. For the following reasons, the
court GRANTS the City’s motion.
Legal
Standard
“A
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) Parties are also permitted to seek leave
file “a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts material to the case
occurring after the former complaint or answer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 464, subd.
(a).) A request to file a supplemental pleading is subject to the court’s
discretion and is generally granted. (Louie Queriolo Trucking, Inc. v.
Superior Court of Kern County¿(1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 194, 197.)
Discussion
In
this case, the initial Complaint was based upon the allegations that Defendants
were unlawfully operating a marijuana cultivation operation at a property in El
Monte from June 2020 to January 2021. While the Complaint was filed on August
12, 2021, the City seeks to file a supplemental Complaint that alleges the
existence of another unlawful marijuana cultivation operation that was
discovered at the El Monte property in April 2023. (Welch Decl., ¶ 6.) The City
initially delayed in filing the present motion as they were engaging in
settlement discussions with Lue and participated in mediation on August 19,
2024. (Welch Decl., ¶ 8-9.)
No
Defendant filed a timely opposition in response. Based upon the declaration of the City’s counsel and
in the absence of any opposition, the court finds City has established good
cause for filing a supplemental pleading.
Accordingly, the court GRANTS
the City’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the City’s motion to file
a supplemental Complaint is GRANTED.
The City is ordered forthwith to file separately the
proposed supplemental Complaint attached as Exhibit B to the declaration of
counsel for the City, David R. Welch, Esq.