  Case Number:  20STCV46278    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ABRAHAM MACIAS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ANTONIO SILVA, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV46278
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO DISMISS FOR DELAY IN PROSECUTION
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
November 13, 2023



 
 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
On
December 3, 2020, Plaintiff Abraham Macias (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Antonino Silva (erroneously sued as “Antonio Silva”) and Does 1 to 10
alleging (1) Assault and Battery; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (3) Negligence; and (4) Violation of the Bane Civil Rights Act. 
On
August 19, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel.
On
March 9, 2023, Defendant Antonino Silva (“Defendant”) filed his answer to the
Complaint. 
Defendant
now seeks a dismissal of this action based on Plaintiff’s failure to bring this
action to trial within two years after this action was commenced.
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
The
court may, in its discretion, dismiss an action for delay in prosecution where
service is not made within two years after the action is commenced against the
defendant (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.420, subd. (a)(1)), or where the action is
not brought to trial within two years after the action is commenced against the
defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.420,
subd. (a)(2)(B).)  The court on its own
motion or on motion of the defendant may dismiss an action under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 583.410-583.430 for delay in prosecution if the action has
not been brought to trial or conditionally settled within two years after the
action was commenced against the defendant. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1340(a).)
In
ruling on a motion to dismiss, the court may consider the court file, diligence
in seeking effective service of process, the extent to which parties engaged in
any settlement negotiations, diligence in pursuing discovery, nature and
complexity of the case, pendency of other litigation based on common facts,
nature of any extensions of time or other delay, condition of the court’s
calendar, whether the interests of justice are best served by dismissal, and
any other facts or circumstances relevant to fair determination.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1342(e).)
III.            
DISCUSSION
Because
this action has not been set for trial within two years from when the Complaint
was filed, Defendant argues that dismissal is warranted pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 583.420. (Motion at pg. 5.) Defendant further argues that Plaintiff
has caused unreasonable delay in prosecuting this action and has not been
diligent in appearing in this action since May 26, 2023.  (Ibid.; Pollock Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) 
“The
penalty of dismissal against a dilatory plaintiff should be exercised with the
utmost care; and where it appears that the plaintiff has a good cause of
action, that plaintiff has made some showing of excuse for delay; and where
defendant does not claim actual prejudice and has waited until the last
possible moment to file a motion to dismiss, the ends of substantial justice
are best met by a preference for the policy of favoring trials on the merits as
contrasted with that policy which favors presumptions of prejudice.  The reason is that, in the absence of
prejudice to defendants, attributable to unreasonable delays by plaintiff, the
probability of a miscarriage of justice is greater when a trial on the merits
is denied than it is where plaintiff is permitted to proceed.”  (City
of Los Angeles v. Gleneagle Dev. Co. (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 543, 563.)
The
Court finds the delay in prosecuting this action and failure to appear in this
action was due to Plaintiff’s death.  In the
Declaration submitted in support of Defendant’s Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel
indicates that Plaintiff’s son contacted him on October 2, 2023, and indicated
that Plaintiff had passed away “a few months ago.” (Yang Decl. ¶ 3.) It is
conceivable that Plaintiff’s personal representative or successor-in-interest
may seek to continue with this action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
377.31.  Combined with the disfavor of dismissal
based on delay in prosecution, the Court finds that dismissal pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 583.420 is premature. 
Accordingly,
because the interest of justice would not be served by dismissal at this time,
the motion is denied. 
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to dismiss for failure to prosecute is
DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.  
        
Dated this 13th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 