 Case Number:  22STCV24875    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Steven Pagliaro 
 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
Tenten Wilshire, et al., 
 
Defendant(s). 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 22STCV24874 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion to
  Compel Responses  
   
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
November 13, 2023.



 
                   
I.INTRODUCTION 
 
On August 2, 2022, Plaintiff
Steven Pagliaro (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Tenten
Wilshire, LLC, Amidi Partners, LLC, Amidi Real Estate, LLC, Admidi, LLC
(“Defendants”) alleging two causes of action for premises liability and general
negligence. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff, a tenant of the Subject
Property, was using the back staircase that was slippery, uneven, and/or
otherwise dangerous. Plaintiff fell and was injured. 
 
On January 20, 2023, Defendants
Tenten Wilshire, LLC, and Amir, LLC filed an Answer. 
 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the current motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
Two. As of November 7, 2023, no Opposition has been filed. 
 
                
II.LEGAL STANDARD 
 
If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿ The statute contains no time limit
for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.¿ All that needs be
shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served
on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response of any kind has been served.¿ (Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)¿Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿  
 
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . .
 If a monetary sanction is authorized by
any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a
misuse of the discovery process.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿ 
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel
responses to interrogatories against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
             
III.DISCUSSION 
 
Responses
 
Plaintiff seeks to compel
Defendant Tenten Wilshire, LLC, to provide responses, without objections, to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two. 
 
On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff
propounded the second set of special interrogatories on Defendant Tenten, LLC,
and no responses were provided. On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff contacted Defendant,
indicating that they had failed to provide responses and requested responses.
(Motion 3: 25 – 4: 1; Dec. Bassil, ¶ 5, Ex. B.) After receiving no response to
this letter, Plaintiff again contacted Defendant on August 22, 2023, indicating
that responses had yet to be provided and provided a deadline of August 29,
2023. (Motion 4: 2-5; Dec. Bassil, ¶ 6, Ex. C.) On August 29, 2023, Defendant
responded to Plaintiff’s email update requesting an extension. Plaintiff
allowed for an extension, with responses due on September 12, 2023. However,
Defendant has yet to provide any responses. 
 
Plaintiff is entitled to responses. Defendant Tenten has
failed to provide responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set Two that were
served in January 2023. As stated above, under CCP §§ 2030.290, when a party
fails to provide responses to timely propounded discovery, a party may move for
an order compelling responses. 
 
Sanctions
 
The Court may award discretionary sanctions if it finds that
a party has misused the discovery process. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(a).) Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.010(d)
identifies “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery” as a misuse of the discovery process. Here, there is no excuse or
substantial justification for Defendant’s refusal to provide responses to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two, in compliance with the discovery
statutes.  Accordingly, the Court awards
sanctions as requested in the amount of $1,686.65.
 
             
IV.CONCLUSION 
 
Motion to Compel Responses and request for sanctions are
GRANTED. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 
Dated this 9th day of November 2023 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Judge of the Superior
  Court 
 



 
 