 Case Number:  22STCV25558    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Herbert C. Rubinstein, Trustee, et al.,
 
Plaintiffs, 
vs. 
 
Colby Square Homeowners Association, Inc., et
  al., 
 
Defendants. 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 22STCV25558 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion for
  Terminating Sanctions
   
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
November 13, 2023.



 
                   
I.INTRODUCTION 
 
On August 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Herbert
C. Rubinstein, Trustee of The Herbert C. & Pauline L. Rubinstein Family
Trust of 2016 and Colby Development, LP (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendant Colby Square Homeowners Association, Inc., (“Defendant”)
alleging four causes of action for general negligence and common counts. The
complaint alleges that a water pipe burst in the Subject Building, which caused
extensive water damage to Plaintiff’s unit. Additionally, Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant is holding insurance proceeds, but has not released the funds to
Plaintiffs. 
 
On September 27, 2022, Defendant
Colby Square Homeowners Association, Inc., filed an Answer. 
 
On May 4, 2023, Defendant filed
multiple motions to compel responses. They were GRANTED. 
 
On October 5, 2023, Defendant
filed the current Motion for Terminating Sanctions. On October 31, 2023,
Defendant filed a Notice of non-Receipt of Plaintiffs’ Opposition. As of
November 9, 2023, no Opposition has been filed.  
 
                
II.LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Where a party willfully disobeys
a discovery order, courts have discretion to impose terminating, issue,
evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010, subd. (g), 2025.450, subd. (h); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
486, 495.)  An evidence sanction prohibits a party that misused the
discovery process from introducing evidence on certain designated matters into
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).) Ultimate discovery
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules.  (Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) 
“[A] penalty as severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where
noncompliance with discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than
willfulness or bad faith.”  (Brown
v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.)  The court may impose a
terminating sanction by one of the following orders: 
 
(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the
pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
(2) An order staying further proceedings by that party
until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the
action, of that party. 
(4) An order rendering a judgment
by default against that party. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) 
 
             
III.REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Evidence Code Section 452 allows
the Court to take judicial notice of certain types of documents, including “[r]ecords
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are
not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) 
 
            Defendant
moves to have the Court take judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.      Defendants’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Herbert C. Rubinstein’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Request
for Monetary Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities and Declaration of
Caitlin J. Hoffman in Support Thereof.
2.      Defendants’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Colby Development LP’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Request
for Monetary Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities and Declaration of
Caitlin J. Hoffman in Support Thereof
3.      Defendants’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Herbert C. Rubinstein’s Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) and
Request for Monetary Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities and
Declaration of Caitlin J. Hoffman in Support Thereof.
4.      Defendants’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Colby Development LP’s Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) and
Request for Monetary Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities and
Declaration of Caitlin J. Hoffman in Support Thereof. 
5.      Defendants’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Herbert C. Rubinstein’s Responses to Request for Production (Set One) and
Request for Monetary Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities and
Declaration of Caitlin J. Hoffman in Support Thereof.
6.      Defendants’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Colby Development LP’s Responses to Requests for Production (Set One) and
Request for Monetary Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities and
Declaration of Caitlin J. Hoffman in Support Thereof.
7.      Notice of Non-Receipt of Opposition to Defendant’s Motions
to Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Discovery Requests.
8.      Notice of Ruling on Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Discovery Requests.
 
Each of these is part of the
court record in this case and, thus, the Court takes judicial notice of these
documents as requested. 
 
             
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant moves for terminating sanctions, requesting that
the case be dismissed with prejudice. 
 
Background: 
 
On January 13, 2023, Defendant served Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents to each
Plaintiff. After granting two extensions, Plaintiffs failed to provide
responses. Defendant filed motions to compel responses, and all the motions
were GRANTED on August 14, 2023. This Court ordered responses within 20 days
and sanctions totaling $780, However, as of the filing of the current motion on
October 5, 2023, no responses had been provided. 
 
Defendant seeks terminating sanctions based on Plaintiffs’
failures to respond to discovery pursuant to court order.  Plaintiffs have failed to provide any
responses for eight months and have failed to cooperate with litigation, not
returning Defense counsel’s phone calls. 
 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for
discovery abuse “after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]
conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to
the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
the discovery.” Los Defensores, Inc. v.
Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App..4th 377, 390.) Under this standard, trial courts
have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully
disobeyed one or more discovery orders. (Id.)

 
Here,
the discovery requests were sent in January 2023. After repeated attempts to
obtain responses and multiple motions to compel, Plaintiffs still have not been
provided responses and have failed to comply with this Court’s orders. And to accentuate
their unresponsiveness, Plaintiffs have not even responded to this motion for
terminating sanctions.  Given the
totality of these circumstances, the Court finds that terminating sanctions are
appropriate.  
 
             
IV.CONCLUSION 
 
Motion
for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 
Dated this 9th day of November 2023 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Judge of the Superior
  Court 
 



 
 