 Case Number:  24STCV12349    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RAYMOND M. CHAN,
  an individual;
RAYMOND
  M. CHAN and CINDY C.
CHAN,
  Trustees of The Chan Family Trust,
dated
  12/21/09, as Restated on 9/14/14, and
All
  Amendments Thereto, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EDWARD CHAN, an individual; HOWARD
CHAN, an individual; EDWARD CHAN,
Trustee of The Chan Family Living Trust
Dated August 26, 1988; RHE, LLC, a
California limited liability company;
  CHAN
SPRINGDALE PROPERTY, LLC, a
California limited liability company;
(Nominal Defendant) EAST WEST BANK, a
California Corporation; and DOES 1
  through
70, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               
 


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV12349
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF RAYMOND M. CHAN’S
NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND
PARTIAL STAY OF THIS ACTION
 
DEFENDANT EDWARD CHAN’S 
MOTION TO DISMISS CONCURRENT ARBITRATION
  PROCEEDING SEEKING SAME RELIEF
 
Date: November 6, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
             On May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs Raymond M. Chan (“Raymond”)[1]
and Raymond M. Chan and Cindy C. Chan, Trustees of The Chan Family Trust, dated
12/21/09, as Restated on 9/14/14, and All Amendments Thereto (the “Chan Family
Trust”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint (“Complaint”) for: (1)
dissolution of RHE, LLC; (2) dissolution of Chan Springdale Property, LLC; (3) Partition
by Sale of Real Property; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5) concealment; (6)
conversion; and (7) accounting.
 
On June 13, 2024, Raymond filed the
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Partial Stay of This Action (the “Motion to
Compel Arbitration”) seeking an order to: (1) compel Defendants Edward Chan, an
individual (“Edward”), Edward Chan, trustee of the Chan Family Living Trust
Dated August 26, 1988 (the “Parent Trust”), Howard Chan, an individual (“Howard”),
RHE, LLC, a California limited liability company (“RHE LLC”), and Chan Springdale
Property, LLC, a California limited liability company (“Springdale LLC”) to arbitration
pursuant to the RHE LLC and Springdale LLC operating agreements; and (2) stay
the action as to the claims relating to RHE LLC and Springdale LLC pending the
completion of the arbitration.  Edward
filed an opposition to the Motion to Compel Arbitration on July 15, 2024, and
Raymond filed a reply on July 24, 2024.
 
Previously,
on April 19, 2024, Raymond had submitted to the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA”) a demand for arbitration (the “AAA Arbitration Demand”)
against RHE LLC, Edward and Howard.  (Declaration
of S.V. Stuart Johnson [“Johnson Decl.”], ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  Raymond submitted the AAA Arbitration Demand
pursuant to the arbitration clause in RHE LLC’s Operating Agreement (the “RHE
Operating Agreement”) which was executed by Raymond, Howard, and Edward on or
about July 15, 2005.  (Declaration of
Raymond Chan (“Chan Decl.”) ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 

 
On June 10, 2024, Raymond also submitted
to JAMS a demand for arbitration (the “JAMS Arbitration Demand”) against
Springdale LLC, Howard (a member of Springdale LLC), Edward (a member of
Springdale LLC), and the Parent Trust (a member of Springdale LLC).  (Chan Decl., ¶ 6; Johnson Decl., ¶ 15, Exh.
C.)  The JAMS Arbitration Demand was made
pursuant to the arbitration clause in Springdale LLC’s operating agreement (the
“Springdale Operating Agreement”), which was entered into as of March 13, 2015,
between Raymond, Edward, Howard, and the Parent Trust.  [Chan Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B; Johnson Decl., ¶
16.]
 
On June 7, 2024, Edward filed the Motion
to Dismiss the Concurrent Arbitration Proceeding Seeking Same Relief (the “Motion
to Dismiss Arbitration”).  Plaintiffs
filed an opposition on July 15, 2024, and Edward filed a reply on July 24,
2024. 
 
DISCUSSION
Standard 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  To further that policy,
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  
 
In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial
courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists
between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  The opposing
party has the burden to establish any defense to enforcement.  (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner, T–Mobile here, bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing party,
plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)  
 
Procedurally, a petition to compel arbitration or
stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration,
or must have a copy of them attached. 
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1330.)  
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Here, Raymond submits evidence that on or about July
15, 2005, Raymond, Edward and Howard executed the RHE Operating Agreement.  (Chan Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  Section 10.1 of the RHE Operating Agreement
contained an arbitration provision that stated in relevant part:
 
Any action to enforce or interpret this Agreement or
to resolve disputes between the Members or by or against any Member shall be
settled by arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration
Association…
 
(Chan Decl., Exh. A.)
 
Raymond also presents
evidence that the Springdale Operating Agreement was entered into as of March
13, 2015 between Raymond, Edward, Howard, and the Parent Trust.  (Chan Decl., ¶ 6; Johnson Decl., ¶ 16.)  Section 9.3 of the Springdale Operating
Agreement specifically states:
 
Any actions, controversies, claims or disputes
arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be settled by a majority
vote of the Members.  To the extent they
are unable to be settled by a majority vote of the Members, any actions,
controversies, claims or disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement
shall be settled by binding arbitration administered by the Judicial and
Mediation Services (“JAMS”) under its Commercial Arbitration Rules as then in
effect…
 
 
(Chan Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.)
 
 
Burden on the OpposingPparty
to Establish Any Defense to Enforcement
 Because
Raymond has established the existence of valid and binding arbitration
agreements contained in the RHE Operating Agreement and the Springdale
Operating Agreement (collectively, the “Agreements”), of which both Raymond and
Edward are parties, the burden shifts to Edward as the party opposing
arbitration, to show why the Agreements should not be enforced.  In his opposition, Edward does not dispute
that he signed and entered into both Agreements.  Edward contends, however, that the Motion to
Compel Arbitration should be denied on the grounds that Raymond’s claims for
judicial dissolution of the two limited liability companies, RHE LLC and Springdale
LLC, are not arbitrable; the language of each arbitration provision within the RHE
Operating Agreement and the Springdale Operating Agreement does not cover
arbitration of Raymond’s judicial dissolution claims; and Raymond has waived
his right to arbitration.  
 
The Court is not persuaded by Edward’s
arguments.  Foremost, the language of the
arbitration provisions contained in both Agreements is broad and clearly covers
Raymond’s claims against Edward that relate to RHE LLC and Springdale LLC.
Specifically, the RHE Operating Agreement covers “[a]ny action…to resolve
disputes between the Members or by or against any Member” (it is undisputed
that both Raymond and Edward are members of RHE LLC), while the Springdale
Operating Agreement includes “any actions, controversies, claims or disputes arising
out of or relating to this Agreement”.  (Chan
Decl., Exhs. A and B.)  
 
There is also no support for Edward’s position that claims
for dissolution of RHE LLC and Springdale LLC are not arbitrable.  In the case of Larkin v. Williams,
Woolley, Cogswell, Nakazawa & Russell, the court held that an
arbitration clause that broadly covered “any controversy or claim arising out
of or relating to any provision of this (partnership) (a)greement or the breach
thereof” was sufficient to compel arbitration of a dissolution and accounting
claim, as the dispute arose out of and related to the partnership agreement (Larkin
v. Williams, Woolley, Cogswell, Nakazawa & Russell (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 227.)  Similarly thus, a
cause of action for the dissolution of an LLC can be compelled to arbitration
if the arbitration agreement is broad enough to encompass such disputes.
 
Finally, the Court finds that Raymond did not waive arbitration
as Raymond filed his Motion to Compel Arbitration within a few days of
recording his notice of lis pendens.  Specifically, the Court’s records reflect that
this action was initiated on May 15, 2024. 
Raymond filed three separate Notices of Lis Pendens involving three
different properties on June 5, 2024.  The
following week, on June 13, 2024, Raymond filed his Motion to Compel
Arbitration.  At the time he filed his
Motion to Compel Arbitration, he had not yet served the Complaint, as it was
not served on Howard until June 20, 2024, and on Edward on June 25, 2024.  (Johnson Decl. in Support of Reply, ¶¶ 5-6.)  The Court thus finds that Raymond has not yet
actively litigated this action.  
 
The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
showing waiver.  This burden is described
as a “heavy burden of proof”, and any doubts regarding a waiver allegation
should be resolved in favor of arbitration. 
(Quach v. California Com. Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal. 5th 562, 574
[“in ruling on waiver questions, California courts have, for decades, been
applying a framework grounded in a ‘strong policy favoring arbitration’ over
litigation, under which they hold parties seeking to establish waiver to a ‘heavy
burden of proof,’ requiring a showing of prejudice beyond the loss of time and
expenses normally associated with litigating a dispute and resolving any doubts
‘in favor of arbitration.’”].)  
 
In sum, Edward has not carried his burden of demonstrating
that the arbitration provisions should not be enforced.  Accordingly, the Motion to Compel Arbitration
is GRANTED.  In light of this finding,
the Motion to Dismiss Arbitration is MOOT.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the action is stayed pending completion of the arbitration as
to Raymond’s claims that pertain to RHE LLC and Springdale LLC, as follows: (1)
the First Cause of Action for judicial dissolution of RHE LLC; (2) the Second
Cause of Action for judicial dissolution of Springdale LLC; (3) the Fourth
Cause of Action for breach of fiduciary duty as it relates to RHE LLC and
Springdale LLC; (4) the Fifth Cause of Action for concealment as it relates to
RHE LLC and Springdale LLC; (5) the Sixth Cause of Action for conversion as it
relates to RHE LLC and Springdale LLC.  
 
The
Court sets a Status Conference for May 5, 2025, regarding the status of
arbitration.  

Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 6th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


