 Case Number:  22STCV11178    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 28, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Johnny Smith et al. v. City of Los
Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV11178            
 
(1)  
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
(2)  
MOTION TO FILE UNDER SEAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant County of Los Angeles; (2) Defendant
City of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendant City
of Los Angeles; (2) No response on eCourt as of 2/23/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:

04/01/22:
     Complaint filed.
06/03/22:
     First Amended Complaint filed.
01/17/23:
     Second Amended Complaint filed. 
02/16/23:
     Cross-Complaint filed by Defendant County of Los Angeles.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for negligence and wrongful death that was filed on
April 1, 2022.   In their First Amended
Complaint, filed June 2, 2022, Plaintiffs contend that Defendants City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and others negligently breached their duties to
act to prevent the suicide of Plaintiffs’ family member, Aidan Smith (“Aidan”).
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles (“County”)
move for a determination of good faith settlement. Defendant City of Los
Angeles (“City”) moves to file certain documents pertaining to the briefing of
this motion under seal.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles’s
Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination is GRANTED.
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”)
motion to file its supplemental opposition to the County of Los Angeles’s
Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination and the Release provision in the
proposed settlement under seal is GRANTED, pending the eventual approval, if
any, of the settlement by the County Board of Supervisors and Claims Board. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles (“County”)
move for a determination of good faith settlement. The basic terms of the
settlement are that the County, conditioned on the approval of the County Board
of Supervisors and Claims Board, will pay Plaintiffs $495,000 in settlement of
all of Plaintiffs’ claims against the County. (Declaration of Scott J.
Carpenter ISO Mot. ¶ 8; see also Release Agreement provided with Supplemental
Opposition.)
 
Any party to an action “in which it is alleged that two or more parties
are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt” is entitled to a
hearing “on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the
plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors,
upon giving notice in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(a)(1).) 
 
There is no precise yardstick for
measuring the “good faith” of a settlement with one of several tortfeasors, but
it must harmonize the public policy favoring settlements with the competing
public policy favoring equitable sharing of costs among tortfeasors. (See Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499.) 
 
The nonexclusive factors considered
include:
 
(1)              
A rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and
the settlor’s proportionate liability;
 
(2)              
The amount paid in settlement;
 
(3)              
A recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than if found liable after a trial;
 
(4)              
The allocation of the settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs;
 
(5)              
The settlor's financial condition and insurance policy
limits, if any; and
 
(6)        Evidence of any collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct between the settlor and the plaintiffs aimed at making the
nonsettling parties pay more than their fair share. 
 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499; TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 165-166.) 
 
The party contesting the settlement
bears the burden of proving that it is in bad faith. (Code Civ. Proc.
§877.6(d).) If the party contesting the settlement can show, with admissible
evidence, that the settlement is “so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to
[the above-referenced factors] as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute,” then the court should find the settlement to be
lacking in good faith. (Id. at
499-500.) If no such showing is made, the settlement should be deemed to be in
good faith and the settlor is entitled to an order barring any further claims
by any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor for “equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity” and/or an order dismissing
any such claims. (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).)
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles
(“City”) contests the settlement as being in bad faith and opposes the motion
as insufficiently supported. The Court ordered supplemental briefing on January
11, 2024, with the proposed release agreement to be provided by January 12,
2024, with supplemental opposition and reply due to be filed per code. (January
11, 2024 Minute Order.) The County contends that the supplemental opposition,
lodged with the Court, was served on February 12, 2024, via email instead of
the statutory deadline of February 8, 2024. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b);
Supplemental Declaration of Scott Carpenter ISO Supplemental Reply ¶ 4.)
However, as the County filed and served its reply on February 15, 2024, per
code, the Court finds that there was no prejudice from this late service and
will consider the supplemental papers on their merits. 
 
1.     
Rough Approximation of Liability
 
Defendant County contends that its
total liability is disputed. Plaintiffs contend, inter alia, that the
County breached its mandatory duties to report and investigate suspected abuse
or neglect of the decedent before his suicide. (Carpenter Decl. ¶ 4.) The
County contends that it enjoys governmental immunity for any investigations,
owed no duty to Plaintiffs, breached no duty, and no breach of any duty caused
Aidan’s death. (Id. ¶ 5.) The County also argues that its employees
conducted a reasonable and diligent investigation, and, even if they had made
cross-reports to the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department, as Plaintiffs allege
they should have done, there is doubt that doing so would have prevented Aidan
from breaking into a locked gun safe and committing suicide. (Id. ¶¶ 6-7.)
The County does not provide any estimation of the relation between the
settlement amount and its total potential liability. 
 
The City, in opposition, argues
that the County should have greater liability than the City because the County
had sole jurisdiction over Aidan’s safety and welfare. Neither party provides a
numerical estimation of the potential liability faced by the Defendants. 
 
2.     
Amount Paid in Settlement
 
The County has reached a settlement
with Plaintiffs in the amount of $495,000. (Carpenter Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant
City does not dispute the amount to be paid in settlement but contends without
evidence that the amount paid is “cheap” for Defendant County. Unsupported and
argumentative assertions have no bearing on this motion. 
 
3.     
Recognition that Settlor Should Pay Less in
Settlement Than if Found Liable After Trial
 
As the County has provided no
estimation of its total potential liability, there is no comparison between the
settlement amount and the potential liability at trial. 
 
4.     
Allocation of Settlement
 
The County does not discuss the
allocation of the settlement amount. As the City points out in opposition,
the Second Amended Complaint names Amira Eppolito, Aidan’s mother, as a nominal
defendant. As Aidan died intestate, Mrs. Eppolito is one of his heirs. (See Ruttenberg
v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808; Code Civ. Proc. § 377.60(a).)
All heirs to the estate are necessary parties who must be joined in an action
for wrongful death by naming in the pleadings and service with the summons and
complaint. (See Ruttenberg, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at
808-809.)  Although joinder of parties is
not ordinarily an issue to be considered on a motion for determination of good
faith settlement, the joinder of Mrs. Eppolito is relevant here because, as an
heir to the estate, she is arguably entitled to an allocation of the settlement
proceeds to the estate. The County’s original reply brief offered no
explanation from Plaintiffs for the failure to serve Mrs. Epppolito, nor any
discussion of her potential right to a portion of the settlement proceeds.
Consequently, the Court requested supplemental briefing on this issue. 
 
In its supplemental opposition, the City
points to a provision in the release of claims, which leaves the apportionment
of the settlement proceeds to the Plaintiffs and the Nominal Defendant. (See
Release Agreement § 1.5.)  The City claims that this provision is
impermissible, citing Dillingham Const. N.A., Inc. v. Nadel Partnership, Inc,
a construction defect case concerning a claim for indemnity which purports
to require an allocation within a settlement. (Dillingham Const.
N.A., Inc. v. Nadel Partnership, Inc. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 264, 286.) However,
contrary to the City’s assertion, allocation is not required for a good faith
settlement determination. (See, e.g. Dole Food Co. v. Superior Court
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 898-99.) Moreover, during the course of
supplemental briefing, Nominal Defendant Amira Eppolito filed a Notice of
Non-Opposition to this motion on February 14, 2024, through her counsel. Thus,
all parties are now before the Court, and the concern of allocation of
settlement proceeds to the estate is resolved. 
 
The City also argues that, without an
allocation of the settlement proceeds, it has no means of calculating the offset
of its own liability to which it would be entitled under Code of Civil
Procedure section 877(a). In reply, the County states that our Supreme Court
set the method of calculating allocation after a verdict in Rashidi v. Moser,
which endorsed a formula described in Espinoza v. Machonga whereby the
percentage of the jury award against the non-settling Defendant attributable to
economic damages is calculated and applied to the settlement, yielding the
amount the non-settling Defendant is entitled to offset. (Rashidi v. Moser
(2014) 60 Cal.4th 718, 722 [citing Espinoza v. Machonga (1992) 9
Cal.App.4th 268, 276-77].) The Court concurs with the County that this approach
is suitable for calculating an appropriate offset, notwithstanding the lack of
an allocation at present. 
 
5.     
Settlor’s Financial Condition and Insurance Policy
Limits
 
The County provides no evidence of
its financial condition or insurance policy limits. However, as the County of
Los Angeles and the City of Los Angeles are both municipal entities, the Court
finds that this factor is of diminished relevance. 
 
6.     
Evidence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious Conduct
 
Defendant City asserts that the
County may have colluded with Plaintiffs, based on a contention that no
settlement offer was ever made to the City and a delay in producing documentary
evidence ordered by the Court until after the motion was filed. (See
Declaration of Irving Estrada ISO Opp. ¶¶ 6-7.) The City provides no
explanation for how a failure to produce documentary evidence has any bearing
on collusion between the parties as to a settlement, instead merely asserting
that the failure was a tactical step to somehow hinder the City in opposing
this motion. In any event, the County’s tardiness in producing Court-ordered
discovery is not at issue on this motion. The City also provides no authority
supporting the assertion that a failure to propound a settlement offer to one
joint tortfeasor is evidence of collusion with the other joint tortfeasor. The
City’s assertions that the County conducted negotiations in secret are
similarly unsupported by evidence or by law. 
 
The City’s supplemental opposition
fares no better, as the City offers no further evidence of collusion or bad
faith beyond pointing to the lack of an allocation—which, for the reasons
stated above, is not a barrier to a finding of good faith. Further, the Court
is not persuaded by the City’s argument that the proposed settlement agreement
is not yet final because it is conditioned on approval by the County. To the
extent that the City’s right to an offset might be hindered if the case
proceeds to judgment before the settlement is approved and entered, that
concern may be addressed through the Court’s control of the trial date. The
City cites no authority otherwise standing for the position that the Court may
not issue a good faith determination on a settlement that is subject to final
approval by a municipal entity. 
 
Accordingly, for the reasons
explained above, the Court finds that the moving parties have demonstrated that
this settlement has been prepared in good faith. 
 
Motion to Seal
 
Defendant City
of Los Angeles (“City”) moves to file its supplemental opposition to the County
of Los Angeles’s Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination and the Release
provision in the proposed settlement under seal. 
 
Defendant City initially sought to
seal these papers via an ex parte application filed on February 13,
2024. The Court declined to grant relief ex parte and instead scheduled
a hearing for February 21, 2024. Having reviewed the papers, the Court now
rules on the merits of the request. 
 
            The sealing
of court records is governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and
2.551.  (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158
Cal.App.4th 60, 68.)  The presumption of open access to court records
does not apply to “records that are required to be kept confidential by
law.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to
seal a court record or seeking to file a record under seal must do so by motion
or application supported by a declaration showing facts justifying the record’s
sealing.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(1).)  
California Rules of Court rule
2.550(d) states: “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if
it expressly finds facts that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.”  
            Once
sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order of court.  (Id.,
rule 2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties
must refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed
matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a
new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version
of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public
record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v.
Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.) 
            Defendant
contends that there is an overriding interest in protecting the confidentiality
of these materials because the Release is a record from a public agency
pertaining to pending litigation to which the agency is a party. Such records
are expressly protected for disclosure under the California Public Records Act.
(Gov. Code §7927.200(a).) The Release has also been designated as Confidential
pursuant to the Court’s September 1, 2023 Protective Order. Defendant further
argues that the supplemental opposition is so extensively reliant on the
release agreement that it should also be filed under seal, because redaction of
references to protected material would be otherwise impractical.  Defendant contends that the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored because it only concerns materials that are expressly
protected from disclosure by law. According to Defendant, no less-restrictive
means are available to protect the confidential information.
Although no party appeared in
opposition to the ex parte application, the City states that counsel for
Defendant County and for Plaintiffs both object to the filing of the
supplemental opposition as untimely. Whether the supplemental opposition is
untimely has no bearing on whether it should be filed under seal, only whether
the Court should consider those papers in ruling on the underlying motion. Moreover,
it is apparent from the County’s supplemental reply brief that no prejudice
arose from the service of the supplemental opposition. 
 
No party objects to filing the
Release under seal. 
            Upon
reviewing the materials lodged conditionally under seal, the Court finds that
the materials which Defendant moves to seal reference, include, or constitute
material which is protected from disclosure under the California Public Records
Act and the Court’s September 1, 2023 Protective Order and thus there is an
overriding statutory privacy interest that overcomes the right of public access
to these records and supports sealing the record. The Court also finds that
there is a substantial probability that this interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed as that interest is, by definition, an interest against
disclosure of these materials. The Court also finds that the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored to only the materials which are protected from disclosure,
and that there is no less restrictive means to achieve the interest in
protecting these materials from disclosure under that section.  In the event that the Board of County
Supervisors approves the settlement, the terms of the settlement will likely
become a matter of public record at which time the sealing order should be
vacated.  The Court directs counsel for
the County to notify the Court of such a development and request that the
sealed settlement terms be set forth in the public record. 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Good Faith Settlement
Determination is GRANTED.
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”)
motion to file its supplemental opposition to the County of Los Angeles’s
Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination and the Release provision in the
proposed settlement under seal is GRANTED, pending the eventual approval, if
any, of the settlement by the County Board of Supervisors and Claims Board. 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 28,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 



 