

Hearing Date:             October 9, 2024
Case Name:                 Corbel Architects, Inc., et al.
v. Hot Hand Corporation, et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV21008
Motion:                       Request
for Default Judgment
Moving
Party:             Plaintiffs Corbel
Architects, Inc. and David Seong Bae Kim

Responding Party:      N/A (Defaulted Defendants Hot Hand
Corporation and Hyo Suk Kim)


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Hearing on OSC continued for
supplemental filings.
 

 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Corbel Architects, Inc. and David Seong Bae Kim
sued defendants Hot Hand Corporation and Hyo Suk Kim on August 31, 2023 for
breach of contract and related claims.
 
Plaintiffs now request entry of default judgment in against
both defendants.
 
Applicable Law
 
Judgment may be entered against a defendant by default
where “the defendant has been served, other than by publication, and no answer,
demurrer, [or other responsive paper] has been filed with the clerk of the
court within the time specified in the summons ... .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
585(b).) In such cases, the clerk shall enter default upon plaintiff’s written
application and the plaintiff “thereafter may apply to the court for the relief
demanded in the complaint.” (Ibid.)
 
A party seeking a default judgment on declarations must
use the mandatory form CIV-100 and also file with the clerk (1) a brief summary
of the case, (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in support, (3)
interest computations as necessary, (4) a memorandum of costs and
disbursements, (5) a declaration of non-military status, (6) a proposed form of
judgment, (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought,
(8) exhibits as necessary, and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees, if they are
sought. (Cal. R. Ct., Rule 3.1800(a).)
 
Service and Default
 
Plaintiffs filed proofs of service indicated they served
Defendants via mail with acknowledgment of receipt. The proofs of service were
accompanied by Notices of Acknowledgment signed by defendant Hyo Suk Kim
individually and as chief executive for Hot Hand Corporation. Plaintiffs’
counsel attested to mailing the necessary documents on March 7, 2024, setting defendants’
date to file a responsive pleading on April 16, 2024. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
415.40 [adding ten days to service on persons outside of state].)
 
Neither defendant filed a responsive pleading. The clerk
entered Defendants’ defaults on September 16, 2024. Plaintiffs’ CIV-100 Request
for Default contains a declaration of mailing and of nonmilitary status.
Plaintiffs dismissed all fictitiously-named defendants on September 19,
2024.
 
Judgment Form, Notice of Damages, and Proof of Facts
 
Plaintiffs’ CIV-100 contains a statement of the amount of
the judgment and a memorandum of costs, as well its own declarations of mailing
and nonmilitary service. However, the statement is unsigned. A signed form must
be submitted before the Court may enter judgment.
 
Plaintiffs request no more than what they expressly pray for
in their complaint. Defendants had notice of their potential liability when
they defaulted.
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint and the declaration of David Kim in
support of judgment lay out the parties’ contract verbatim and attest that Corbel
Architects performed all services required, but Defendants failed to pay
$721,916.43 owed to Plaintiffs in return. They have proven Hot Hand’s liability
to Corbel Architects.
 
However, the parties’ contract (Kim Decl., Exh. A) reveals
that the contract was between Hot Hand Corporation and Corbel Architects only.
Hyo Suk Kim is listed on the contract as CEO, and David Kim as Principal for
Corbel Architects. Neither signed in their individual capacity. Kim’s
declaration also explains “Hot Hand agreed to pay Corbel”, that Kim and his
“team ... at Corbel Architects ... have performed all obligations”, and
“Defendants have failed to pay the remaining balance ... to Corbel Architects,
Inc.” (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4-5.) In fact, the declaration attests “Defendants are
indebted to Corbel Architects”, not to Kim. (Id., ¶ 6.) The allegations
in Plaintiffs’ complaint similarly establish Kim is not a party.
 
Once counsel cures the unsigned CIV-100, the Court may enter
judgment against Hot Hand Corporation in Corbel Architects, Inc.’s favor. But Hyo
Suk Kim must first be dismissed from the complaint, and David Kim may not
recover from either defendant on the current record.
 
Prejudgment Interest
 
Plaintiffs are entitled to $197.79 in per diem
damages beginning at least from the date their complaint was filed. That
calculation, accounting for 405 days until the date of this hearing, results in
an amount higher than the claim in Plaintiffs’ JUD-100. They are entitled to
recover all the prejudgment interest claimed.
 
Fees
 
Fees upon default are awarded according to the schedule in Local
Rule 3.214. For a principal judgment of $721,916.43, Plaintiffs are entitled to
$2,890 plus 1% of the excess over $100,000.00. Plaintiffs request approximately
$2,500.00 less than the amount in the schedule. The Court may award what is
claimed.
 
Costs
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel attests to reasonable filing and service
fees totaling $1,076.75.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court continues the hearing on Plaintiffs’ Request for
Default to a date to be determined.
 
Prior to the continued hearing, Counsel is instructed to:
            (1) submit
a signed CIV-100 Request for Entry of Judgment,
(2) prove up the individual
plaintiff and individual defendant or dismiss the individual defendant from the
complaint.
 
 