  Case Number:  22PSCV00888    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative
Ruling
 
(1)   Defendant
Avalon Management Group, Inc. Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication on Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED IN ITS ENTIRETY, notably because (as to
negligence), Plaintiffs rely upon immaterial allegations and deduce their
theories of liability based upon speculation. 
 
(2)  
Motion For Summary Adjudication By Defendant
Avalon Management Group, Inc. As Against Diamond Bar Village Association On
Avalon’s Cross-Complaint is TBD. 
 
Background[1]
 
This case pertains to the evacuation of over 150 residents
at the condominium units located at Diamond Bar Village (“DBV”). Plaintiffs,
the owners of condominium units, allege the following against Defendants THE
AVALON MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC. (“Avalon”), a California corporation; DIAMOND BAR
VILLAGE ASSOCIATION (“HOA” or “DBV”), a California nonprofit corporation; LARRY
CARMACK, an individual; JAMES HOPKINS, an individual; KHATRI INTERNATIONAL,
INC., a Nevada corporation and DIPLIP MULCHAND KHATRI, an individual
(collectively, “Khatri Defendants” or “Khatri”); RKA CONSULTING GROUP, a
California corporation (“RKA”); CITY OF DIAMOND BAR, a governmental entity
(occasionally referred to as the “City”): On September 27, 2021, Defendants
Avalon and the HOA sent an e-mail to all the residents and owners of DBV,
including Plaintiffs, advising them for the first time that all the residents
may need to evacuate the Subject Property due to “impending risk to the health
and safety of residents from the roof rafter conditions.” (First Amended
Complaint (FAC) ¶75.) The City’s
Notice and Order to Vacate DBV (“Vacate Order”) referenced a 2017 report that
found similar problems with Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage. However,
Plaintiffs were not informed about the 2017 report; therefore, the first time
Plaintiffs learned of any possible massive evacuation was in 2021. That said,
the Vacate Order was rescinded because on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs’ own
structural engineer determined that there was no imminent threat of collapse to
the buildings at DBV. Although the Vacate Order had been rescinded by the City,
Plaintiffs still suffered damages because they “had to pay their tenants
relocation fees and lost rent for months . . . and had to live through the
chaos, discomfort, trash being dumped everywhere, the swimming pool being green
and full of mosquitos, the lack of maintenance to the Subject Property, the
news reporters being at the Subject Property, and the threat of fines and
penalties being levied by the City and being arrested by the police for failure
to vacate by October 18, 2021.” (FAC ¶100.) 
 
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed suit.
 
On June 26, 2023, Avalon filed
a cross-complaint against all Defendants for: 1.     Express Indemnity 2.     Comparative Indemnity 3.     Contribution 4.     Equitable Indemnity 5.     Declaratory Relief
 
On October 17, 2023, Avalon
filed the instant MSJ/MSA against Plaintiffs.
 
On October 27, 2023, Avalon
filed the instant MSA against DBVA on Avalon’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
On November 7, 2023, the court,
after taking Khatri’s GFS motion under submission, issued its final ruling,
reversing the tentative ruling to deny and granting Khatri’s GFS motion.
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition to Avalon’s MSJ/MSA as to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
On January 22, 2024, the court
denied RKA’s motion for reconsideration and denied Plaintiffs’ motion for
sanctions. (At this point, two good faith settlement (“GFS”) motions have been
granted the City of Diamond Bar and Khatri Defendants.) 
 
On January 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition To
Defendant Avalon Management Group, Inc.’s Motion For Summary Adjudication As
Against Diamond Bar Village Association On Avalon’s Cross-complaint. That same
day, Avalon filed its reply as to its MSJ/MSA. That same day, DBVA filed its
Oppositions to Avalon’s MSA as to Avalon’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
On February 2, 2024, Avalon filed various replies. 
 
On February 8, 2024, during the hearing on the instant MSJs,
the court allowed for supplemental briefing on the issues raised in the
tentative ruling.
 
All parties have timely filed their respective briefs. 
 
Legal Standard[2]
 
The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to
cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).) 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts employ a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) For emphasis, only material
facts govern summary judgment.[3]
To be material, a fact
must be essential to the action and, if proven, change the outcome of the case.
(Los Angeles Nat’l Bank v. Bank of Canton (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1267,
1274.)[4] As
 
A moving defendant bears the initial burden of production to
show that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or
that there is a complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice
shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by
a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
The opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or
denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, at p.
849.) Specifically, “[t]he opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether the papers show that there is a
triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of the
evidence set forth in the moving papers, except that as to which objections
have been made and sustained, and all inferences reasonable deducible from such
evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)

 
I.               
Avalon’s MSJ/MSA v. Plaintiffs’ FAC
 
Negligence COA
 
As a preliminary matter, the court revisits its rulings on
the GFS motions as the court’s concerns there lay the foundation for this
ruling.   
 
As to the City’s
GFS motion, the court’s tentative was to deny the motion because $35,000 (.14%
of the total projected settlement of 25.2 million in damages) was
disproportionate to the City’s share of liability. Specifically, focusing on
the Khatri Reports, this court proposed the following question: “Based on the foregoing facts, which appear to favor
Avalon, this leads to a query: what did Avalon do in comparison to
the City (and RKA) and Khatri Defendants that Avalon should presumably bear
thousands or millions more in liability? Absent evidence from either party, the
court is unable to answer this fundamental question about liability, indicating
that the instant GFS is premature.” (See 9/6/23 Final Ruling, emphasis added.)[5] The court reversed its tentative to grant the motion based
upon (i) new/accurate approximate of damages of about 2 million dollars and
(ii) reconsideration of the City’s defenses/immunities. That said, the court’s
conclusion in its final ruling the court noted that “presumably the Khatri
Defendants [] bear significant liability for making inaccurate reports.” (9/6/23 Final
Ruling, emphasis added.) 
 
As to Khatri’s GFS motion, the court’s tentative was to deny
the motion because Khatri’s settlement offer of $250,000 (14% of the $1.945
million total damages) did not adequately represent Khatri’s proportionate
liability when RKA/Tao/the City relied upon Khatri’s report. The court
ultimately reversed its tentative because of Khatri’s Counsel’s emphasis on Horton
v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 727, which provides that a trial
court need solely look at the plaintiff’s claimed damages but on the rough
approximation of what a plaintiff would actually recover if the case
should go to trial. (Id. at p. 735.) And Khatri set forth a compelling
application as to what Plaintiffs would actually recover, which was no
longer the initially claimed $25.2 million, was no longer the $1.945 million
amount, but at most about $500,000. Therefore, bearing 50% of liability for at
most (likely far less during trial due to speculative damages) was made in
good faith. 
 
Effectively, as demonstrated above, the court has wavered in
its decisions because the ultimately underscored the fact that the Khatri
Reports and Tao’s assessment that created Plaintiffs’ economic damages due to
the improperly tagged apartments.
 
Now, for purposes of
this motion, the court returns to that point because when (1) focusing on the material
facts as found within the four corners of the FAC, when (2) considering
all reasonable inferences that a reasonable trier of fact could
deduce from the evidence (CCP section 437c(c),[6] and, importantly,
when (3) observing that said inferences cannot be derived mere
possibility or speculation that something else might have happened
but-for the alleged conduct at issue,[7] Plaintiffs have not
alleged that Avalon, the party who did not create the Khatri Reports nor
decide to issue the Vacate Order, caused Plaintiffs’ damages as to the
negligence COA. 
 
The gravamen of the FAC’s 189 allegations is that
“there was no basis for the City to issue the Vacate Order.” (Supp. Brief p.
7:21-22.) This is not just Avalon’s argument, but Plaintiff’s own
position as evidenced by the following allegations: 
 
-       
“[T]he City had no grounds whatsoever to
red or yellow tag all 150 units of DBV.” (FAC ¶155, emphasis added and underline added.) 
 
-       
“Plaintiffs …seek …to
prevent the defendants improperly issuing red tags in the future…” (FAC
¶104, emphasis added.) 
 
-       
“Neither MR. KHATRI nor the reports he
had generated (2017 KHATRI REPORT and 2021 KHATRI REPORT) were credible.”
(FAC ¶95, emphasis added.) 
 
-       
“The Village at
Diamond Bar, citing to reports that clearly did not justify an evacuation….”
(FAC, Ex. 10, 12 [Plaintiff’s Administrative Claim for Damages against the
City, ¶9, p. 213 of 264 of PDF.)[8] 
 
Even as to the allegations specifically directed to Avalon (¶113, subds. (a)-(f)), the majority reference
Mr. Khatri and the Khatri Reports: 
 
[D]efendants . . . negligently
managed, controlled, and/or failed to performed services relating to DBV,
including, but not limited to, the following actions: 
(a) Total failure to perform any
deferred maintenance repairs to the Subject Property as addressed in the 2017 KHATRI
REPORT for over 4 years; 
(b) Total failure to seal the walls
that were left open by MARCUS ALLEN or other contractors, causing these walls
to mold over time; 
(c) Total failure to disclose the
2017 KHATRI REPORT to the owners, sellers, and buyers of condominium
units at DBV, including Plaintiffs; 
(d) Total and gross negligence by
advising the HOA to not disclose the 2017 KHATRI REPORT and 2021
KHATRI REPORT to the owners or sellers of DBV; 
(e) Total failure to conduct a
background check on MR. KHATRI to determine any and all previous
licensing issues with his civil and structural engineering licenses; and 
(f) Total failure to obtain a
second opinion from another licensed structural engineer after receiving
the 2021 KHATRI REPORT before handing the report over to the CITY OF
DIAMOND BAR, which resulted in DBV being improperly red and yellow tagged
forcing a massive evacuation of the Subject Property by most of the residents
at DBV. The actions taken by the defendants were unreasonable in that they
caused the CITY OF DIAMOND BAR to improperly red and yellow tag all the
condominium units at DBV, which resulted in a massive evacuation of most of the
residents of DBV, depriving Plaintiffs of the normal use and quiet enjoyment of
their units, loss of rental income, out of pocket expenses, relocation fees
paid to the tenants, and severe emotional distress. (FAC pp. 26-27, emphasis
added.)
 
Discussion re: Allegations ¶113(a), (b), and (e)
 
According
to the FAC, it is Mr. Khatri’s assessment(s) and the Khatri Reports that caused
the improperly tagging the units. (See ¶126 [3rd COA for negligence
directed against Mr. Khatri and Khatri Defendants] [“The actions
taken by the [Khatri defendants] were unreasonable in that they caused
the CITY OF DIAMOND BAR to improperly red and yellow tag all the condominium
units at DBV…”], emphasis and underline added.) Put another way, the FAC suggests
that but-for Khatri’s alleged negligence, the buildings would not have been
tagged.  Plaintiffs drive home this
point—that Mr. Khatri performed an inept job—by heavily referencing
disciplinary action taken against him. (See e.g., FAC ¶134). The copy of the
‘Decision, Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order’ (attached to the
complaint) provides, in summary, the following reason why disciplinary action
was taken: “[Mr. Khatri is subject to disciplinary action under section 6775
(c) of the Code because he demonstrated a lack of knowledge of the applicable
state and local statutes, regulations, and building codes and failed to use the
care ordinarily exercised by licensed professional engineers.”]) (FAC, Ex. 4,
p. 106 of 264 of PDF.) In short, Mr. Khatri was deemed as incompetent in the
field of his work. (FAC, Ex. 4 [‘First Amended Accusation], ¶6, p. 240 of 264 [“Title 16,
Section 404, subdivision (u) of the California Code of Regulations defines
“incompetence” as used in Code Section 6775 as “the lack of knowledge or
ability in discharging professional obligations as a professional engineer or
land surveyor.”].)
 
Effectively,
as Plaintiffs are alleging that Mr. Khatri was so unqualified that he would
have created a false report regardless of the conditions, then ¶113(a), (b), (e) are immaterial.[9] 
 
Discussion re: ¶113(f) 
 
To the
extent that Plaintiffs aver that a “second opinion” from another licensed
structural engineer after receiving the 2021 Khatri Report would have not
caused the City to issue its Vacate Order, that is both immaterial and based on
speculation. 
 
First, arguably, a second opinion was provided by
Raymond Tao, who even if was unqualified, spoke as to the structural integrity
of DBV and whether DBV was subject to imminent threat of collapse. (FAC ¶151.) In fact, the Vacate Order, which, as a
reminder, was issued by the City and the City hired Raymond Tao/RKA, was
based on the Khatri Reports. (See FAC ¶81; see also ¶84 [“RAYMOND
TAO responded that support for the Vacate Order was based upon his visual
inspection and the 2017 KHATRI REPORT and the 2021 KHATRI REPORT.”],
emphasis added.) Accordingly, even if Tao’s/RKA’s opinion was not the opinion
that Plaintiffs wanted, a second opinion was given, and it reached
the same conclusion as Khatri. 

Second, assuming a second opinion by someone other than RKA would have or
might have prevented the issuance of the Vacate Order, that is based
upon speculation which is insufficient to create a triable issue of material
fact. 
 
Third,
Plaintiffs argue that this is a material fact because “[c]ommon sense
dictates that Avalon should have reviewed [the reports] to determine if a
second opinion was needed.” (Supp. Opp. p. 7:23-24, emphasis and underline
added.) But whether something is of common sense or not does not create a
triable issue of material fact. 
 
Therefore, allegation ¶113(f) is insufficient to create a triable issue of
material fact as to causation. 
 
Discussion re: ¶113(c) and (d)
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs
argue total and gross negligence by advising the HOA to not
disclose the 2017 KHATRI REPORT and 2021 KHATRI REPORT to the owners or sellers
of DBV, that is immaterial. The allegation indicates that the HOA decides
whether to disclose the information to the residents. And, in fact, per
the S&L agreement assigned to Avalon on 9/1/2020, Avalon, as the managing
agent, was to merely “implement the decisions and they policy established by
the Board of Directors of the Association.” (Supp. Brief p.
8:25-28.) (This is undisputed or otherwise uncontested by Plaintiffs in
opposition.) Thus, any decision that was ultimately made rested in the
discretion of the HOA.  
 
Therefore, as a “moving
party need not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not
included in the pleadings” (Supp. Brief p. 9, quoting Hutton v. Fidelity Nat’l Title
Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 593, emphasis added) and there is no allegation
that Avalon, irrespective of the HOA, could have disclosed the reports, those allegations
are insufficient to defy summary judgment. 
 
In sum, the known and undisputed fact is that Khatri
created two reports that were wrong, that RKA/Tao made its assessment partly
based on said reports, and based thereon, the City issued its Vacate Order. To infer
that Avalon caused the issuance/need for the Vacate Order is simply
not supported by the allegations or any evidence. Plaintiffs can’t have their
cake and eat it too. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the court GRANTS the MSA as to the negligence COA.[10]

 
Accounting COA 
 
Plaintiffs allege the following against Avalon:
 
[Avalon] ha[s] failed and neglected to
keep proper books and records and has failed and refused to account to
Plaintiffs in any manner whatsoever with regard to the conduct of the business
with regard to the management of DBV, despite demand for such an accounting.
For example, missing accounting records, include, but are not limited to,
missing contracts with vendors, missing contracts with construction companies
for work allegedly performed, missing receipts showing how much money was spent
and paid to vendors, missing accounting for the monies received from the
laundry machines, and missing accounting for payments to Marcus Allen. (FAC
¶187.)
 
A COA for accounting has two elements: (1) a showing that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and the defendant that requires an
accounting and (2) that some balance is due to the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting. (Sass v. Cohen (2020) Cal.5th 861.) 
 
The crux of Avalon’s argument, though grounded in derivative
action, is that the HOA is the right party to sue for accounting. 
 
Indeed, according to Civil Code section 5300, subdivision (a), an
association shall distribute an annual budget report 30 to 90 days
before the end of its fiscal year. The statute sets forth a host of mandatory
disclosures (e.g., operating budget; summary of reserves; “statement as to
whether the board has determined to defer or not undertake repairs or
replacement of any major component with a remaining life of 30 years or less,
including a justification for the deferral or decision not to undertake the repairs
or replacement.”) Accordingly, the language of the statutory provision is not
ambiguous in that the HOA is under a duty to provide the fiscal and other
records Plaintiffs seek. In fact, taking Plaintiffs’ citation to Kovich v. Paseo Del Mar
Homeowners’ Assn. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 621 (Supp. Opp. p. 8), which is the
only HOA-related case cited by either party, it is the HOA that has a
fiduciary relationship with its members; thus, the HOA is to provide the
accounting. 
 
Therefore, as the HOA is in indispensable party as to this
COA, the motion is GRANTED as to the 5th COA for accounting. 
 
 
 


