  Case Number:  20STCV24694    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 12-10-24
Case #20STCV24694
Trial Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Virginia Petikyan
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Will Thatcher, et al. 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On June 29, 2020, Plaintiffs Will Thatcher and Delia
Salgado filed a PAGA complaint against The Bucket. On March 12, 2021, the clerk
entered a default against defendant The Bucket. On March 13, 2022, the court
entered a default judgment for $312,493.85. On November 9, 2023, the court
granted the motion to vacate the default. 
 
On March 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended PAGA
complaint against The Five LLC, A California Limited Liability Company dba The
Bucket aka Bucket; Great White Hut, Inc., A California Corporation; Great White
Hut, LLC, A California Limited Liability Company; 5 Potatoes, LLC, A California
Limited Liability Company; Juliano Babayan, an individual; Vigen Pogosyan, an
individual; Rafi Pogosyan, an individual; Mesrop Abrahamian, an individual;
Alik Ghazarian, an individual; Virginia Petikyan, an individual; Henry Doe, an
individual, and Does 1-50. On July 17, 2024, the court denied the motion to
dismiss brought by Defendants The Five LLC, 5 Potatoes, LLC, Mesrop Abrahamian,
Alik Ghazarian, Henry Ghazaraian (Henry Doe), Vigen Pogosyan, and Juliano
Babayan. Same Defendants answered the first amended complaint on September 5,
2024. 
 
RULING: Sustained with Leave to Amend.
Request for
Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Defendant Virginia Petikyan submits a demurrer to the
first amended complaint on the basis of no facts establishing liability with
moving defendant, and the statute of limitations. On the statute of
limitations, Defendant specifically relies on the allegations that Plaintiff
Thatcher was terminated in July 2019 and Salgado “ended” employment in July
2019, as well. Thus, any one year statute of limitations claims expired in July
2022, and three year claims in July 2022. Plaintiffs Will Thatcher and Delia
Salgado counter that all causes of action related back. Plaintiffs otherwise appear
to offer no apparent challenge to the lack of any factual basis challenge as to
Petikyan specifically. Defendant in reply denies any application of the
relation back doctrine to a Doe defendant. Defendant also contends Plaintiffs
were at a minimum constructively aware of the identity of Petikyan. Defendants
reiterates the lack of facts as to Petikyan.
 
The instant demurrer comes after
the July 16, 2024, motion for monetary sanctions in the amount of $11,189.03
brought by Defendants The Five LLC, 5 Potatoes, LLC, Mesrop Abrahamian, Alik
Ghazarian, Henry Ghazaraian (Henry Doe), Vigen Pogosyan, and Juliano Babayan
also on the lack of any “factual or legal basis” for the subject action. Petikyan
is represented by separate counsel.
 
Petikyan, along with all of the other new defendants, was
not named a defendant into the action until the March 5, 2024, filed first
amended complaint. Notwithstanding the request for judicial notice regarding
the proof of service for Great White Hut, LLC, the court docket shows a March
28, 2024, filed proof of service showing personal service of Petikyan on the
same date.
 
The court assumes Plaintiffs found a basis for the addition
of the numerous new defendants upon the vacating the default and prior to the
time of the drafting and filing of the first amended complaint. While Defendants
The Five LLC, 5 Potatoes, LLC, Mesrop Abrahamian, Alik Ghazarian, Henry
Ghazaraian (Henry Doe), Vigen Pogosyan, and Juliano Babayan elected to seek sanctions
instead of raising a procedurally proper test on the factual basis of the
motion, then subsequently answered the first amended complaint, Petikyan
properly raises the subject factual challenge.
 
The first 35 paragraphs of the operative complaint in fact
only identify “Defendant Bucket” without any allegation even identifying any new
defendant other than listing in the caption of the operative complaint. The
court finds no basis of pled liability as to Petikyan. The demurrer is
therefore sustained on this basis due to a lack of any specific facts, valid
challenge, and effective concession to the merits of this position due to the
omission of any apparent written opposition. The court declines to further
consider the “relation back” positions unless and until Plaintiffs actually
allege the basis of liability with Petikyan.
 
The demurrer
is sustained with 30 days leave to amend. If Plaintiffs elect to forego filing
a second amended complaint within 30 days of this order, Petikyan may
seek a dismissal from the action, and the action will continue against the
other answering defendants. (Code Civ. Proc., 581, subd. (f)(2).) 
 
The
court will concurrently conduct the Case Management and Conference and two
OSCs. 
 
Defendant
to provide notice.
 