  Case Number:  23TRCV00381    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 13, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00381
(related to case no. 23IWUD02179)
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Juanita
Canche Pech v. Lucila Parra; et al. 
¿¿ ¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Lucila Parra 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Anthony Trujillo 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Civil
– Not Set; 
Unlawful
Detainer - May 13, 2024
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED, but Trujillo is
granted immediate leave to amend and the proposed Amended UD Complaint attached
to the Opposition will be deemed filed and served forthwith.  Trujillo is ordered to file the amended UD
complaint forthwith as a stand-alone pleading. 
The Court deems Defendant’s Answer to the original UD Complaint to stand
in response to the amended UD Complaint
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
 On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Lucila Parra, Antonio Trujillo, and DOES 1
through 20. On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Financial Elder
Abuse; (3) Fraud; (4) Violation of Penal Code § 496; and (5) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (6) Breach of Contract. This Court
SUSTAINED the demurrers from Antonio Trujillo and Lucila Parra’s demurrers to
the SAC. 
 
Also, the FAC is associated with the
consolidated unlawful detainer case, Case No. 23IWUD02179, filed on September
27, 2023. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Lucila Parra
files a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the unlawful detainer
complaint on the grounds that Parra asserts Trujillo’s 60-day notice is
defective as a matter of law and that the 60-day notice is at odds with the
allegations of the FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On April 9, 2024, Parra filed a Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings. On April 30, 2024, Trujillo filed an opposition brief. On May
6, 2024, Parra filed a reply brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
With
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Lucila Parra’s moving papers, she filed a Request
for Judicial Notice requesting this Court to take judicial notice of the
following document: 
 
1.     
Trujillo’s Unlawful Detainer complaint herein
(initially case number 23IWUD02179 prior to its consolidation) on September 27,
2023 
 
This Court
GRANTS this request and takes judicial notice of the above document. 
 
Defendant,
Antonio Trujillo, with his opposition brief, filed a Request for Judicial
Notice, requesting this Court take judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.     
Exhibit 1: Complaint for Unlawful Detainer filed
December 13, 2022;
2.     
Exhibit 2: Request for Dismissal in Unlawful Detainer
case;
3.     
Exhibit 3: Plaintiff’s Verified Complaint filed
February 10, 2023 in the civil case;
4.     
Exhibit 4: Verified Cross-Complaint by Lucila Parra
filed March 15, 2024 in the civil case. 
 
This Court GRANTS this request and takes
judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS  
 

A.   
Legal Standard 
 
The standard for ruling on a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable
to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters which are subject
to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be
considered without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject to
permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the
supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.) 
The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull
(1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)  
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate either
of the following exist: 
 
(i)                
The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint. 
(ii)             
The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(a)(B)(i)-(ii).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for judgment on the pleadings must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet
and confer in person or by telephone, at least five days before the date a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)
 
B.    
Discussion  
 
Parra argues that Trujillo’s 60-day notice is defective.
Parra further contends that Trujillo’s UD Complaint, which attaches said
notice, admits that the 2019 Tenant Protection Act (“TPA”) applies. As such,
Parra argues that this means the tenancy may not be terminated “without just
cause, which must be started in the written notice…” (Civ. Code, § 1946.2(a).)
However, Parra argues that the notice is missing both the statement of the “at
fault just cause” or the existence of “no-fault just cause.” (Civ. Code, §
1946.2(b)(1), (2).) As such, Parra contends that because the notice defect
cannot be cured mid-lawsuit, Parra requests this Court grant the motion and
dismiss the unlawful detainer aspect of the action. 
 
In opposition, Trujillo argues that this motion is
brought on the grounds that his Unlawful Detainer Complaint has mistakenly
checked boxes in paragraphs 7b and 8b(1) on the form Complaint and that no
“just cause” is stated for termination of the tenancy in the attached 60-day
notice. However, Trujillo concedes and admits this was an error on part of
Plaintiff’s counsel and can be corrected by amendment or at time of trial to
conform to proof.  Trujillo further
argues that the defect is in the UD Complaint, not as defendant’s MJOP argues a
defect in the 60-day notice.  According
to Plaintiff, the 60-Day notice correctly states the premises are exempt from
AB 1482 and that, therefore, no relocation assistance need be offered.
 
On reply, Parra argues in response to Trujillo’s
untimeliness argument raised in opposition to the ex parte application that the
motion is brought in a timely fashion – stating that this motion could be made
at any time, even in the middle of trial. (citing Weil &
Brown, Cal. Civ. Proc. Before Trial (2022) ¶ 7:285 (unlike a statutory MJOP, a
“nonstatutory motion could be made at any time, even during trial, since the
grounds for general demurrer are never waived [internal citation].) The Court does
not believe the motion could be made at any time.  
 
Section 438,
subsection (e) clearly states: “No motion may be made pursuant to this section
if a pretrial conference order has been entered pursuant to section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., §438(e).) Trial
in this case was originally set for on December 4, 2023, continued to March 13,
2024, continued again to April 10, 2024, and now is set for May 13, 2024 (the
same day Parra reserved for this motion.) Thus, pursuant to the Code, and
disregarding Parra’s analysis (which relies on outdated precedent prior to the
enactment of section 438), this Court finds that this motion is untimely. Even
if the motion were timely, the Court finds that the motion should be granted on
the merits but with immediate leave to amend. 
An inconsistency between the Notice to Quit and the Complaint renders
the pleading uncertain and ambiguous, but the Court can and hereby does grant
leave to amend the UD Complaint.  
 
The reply
brief also argues that, assuming the Court were to grant the MJOP but give
leave to amend, Defendant argues that this Court should not grant leave to
amend. The Court disagrees.  The equities
and the state policy of deciding cases on their merits favor the Plaintiff here
and favor leave to amend an admitted mistake by counsel.  Parra has filed this motion seven months
after the Complaint was filed, and almost six months after she filed her Answer.
She also scheduled this untimely motion on the same date set for trial in this
case.  Attached to Trujillo’s opposition
is an amended pleading which would sufficiently amend the pleading. The Court
does not find that Parra would be prejudiced if this were amended, specifically
because this is not a failure to pay rent case, but one where Trujillo has
attempted to end tenancy by providing a sixty-day notice half a year ago.  The parties will be entitled to present evidence
at trial bearing on whether the 60-day notice was or was not defective as a
matter of disputed fact.  But the Court
cannot determine that the notice was defective as a mater of law merely because
it is inconsistent with the allegations of the admittedly mistaken box-checking
of the form Complaint.  
 
 
III.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Parra’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED, but Trujillo is granted
immediate leave to amend, and the proposed Amended UD Complaint attached to the
Opposition will be deemed filed and served forthwith.  Trujillo is ordered to file the amended UD
complaint as a stand-alone pleading immediately for ease of tracking in the digital
court files, i.e., not as an attachment to the Opposition but as its own
stand-alone pleading.  The Court will
also deem Defendant’s Answer to the original Complaint to stand as the response
to the amended UD Complaint so that the trial need not be delayed any
longer.  
 
Trujillo is ordered to give notice.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 