 Case Number:  23TRCV04092    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 13, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV04092
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Blue Nile Properties
LLC. v. Ronnie Cann Duah, et al. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
ATTORNEY NAME:             Plaintiff, Blue Nile Properties LLC
& Ermias Hagos’s attorney, John B. Barriage
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set.  
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. 
 
 
I.                   
Background  
 
On
December 12, 2023, Plaintiff, Blue Nile Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant, Ronnie Cann Duah and all other Adult Occupants in
Possession, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint is based on an alleged
unlawful detainer. 
 
On
March 13, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney, John B. Barriage (“Barriage”) filed a
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff, Blue Nile Properties, LLC,
citing irretrievable communication breakdown between attorney and client. 
 
II.                
Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that
“the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment
or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and
attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either
client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would
cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in
this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior
(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) 
 
In making a motion to be relieved as
counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil
(MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was
brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The
forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the
case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel, Barriage, moves the Court
to relieve him as attorney of record for Plaintiff. Barriage
properly filed a Notice of
Motion, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in
accordance with Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362. On March 13, 2024, all forms for
the pending motion were served on Plaintiff by mail. Barriage
further notes that he has confirmed the client’s address is current within the
past thirty (30) days by the company’s current address on March 13, 2024 determined
by conformation with California Secretary of State website. Further, on March 13, 2024,
proof of service for said documents were filed with the Court. 
 
In the declaration Barriage
notes that this motion is
made on the grounds that he and his client have an irretrievable break down of the
attorney-client relationship. 
 
Since Plaintiff’s attorney
has complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved
as counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue
delay in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of John B. Barriage as attorney of record for Plaintiff, can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to its interests. 
 
III.             
Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, John B.
Barriage’s, Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order will be
signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order
must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the
case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not
be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff
and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.) 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 