 Case Number:  24PSCV03134    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2025    Dept:  H Wasem v. Jacobo,
Case No. 24PSCV03134

ORDER ON MOTION
TO QUASHSpecially Appearing Defendant
Enrique Jacobo’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is DENIED. I.        Background Plaintiff Leslie Yvonne Wasem (“Plaintiff”)
sustained injuries and damages in a September 21, 2022 motor vehicle accident
on the 605 freeway. On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint,
asserting causes of action against Enrique Jacobo (“Jacobo”) and Does 1-5 for:
(1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence. On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed two
“Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein Rocio D. Jacobo was named in lieu of Doe 1
and Esmeralda Jacobo was named in lieu of Doe 2. Pending before the Court is Jacobo’s motion to quash
service of summons and complaint. II.      Legal
Standard“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion. . . (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10.)“When a defendant challenges the court’s personal
jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the
facts requisite to an effective service.” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413 [quotation marks and citation omitted].)III.     DiscussionJacobo specially
appears and moves the Court for an order quashing service of the summons and
complaint.Jacobo’s
motion is summarily denied. Although Jacobo represents, in his notice of
motion, that the instant motion is made on the grounds that service was
improper or incomplete, a review of his accompanying memorandum of points and
authorities reflects that Jacobo is instead arguing that he “was not the
registered owner of the vehicle and not involved in the collision,” that “[h]is
wife and daughter were the registered owners,” and that “[t]he summons and
complaint were served on an improper party.” (Motion, 3:27-4:2.)These
arguments are not the proper subject of a motion to quash summons and complaint,
which challenges the validity of service, not whether or not a defendant
is a properly named party. Jacobo’s reliance Kline v. Beauchamp (1938)
29 Cal.App.2d 340 is misplaced; in that case, plaintiff filed a complaint
naming Dr. C. Beauchamp and Dr. George Simms as the sole defendants; there was
no reference therein to either fictitious defendants or defendants whose names
were unknown. Dr. Vernon T. Kelley was then served with the summons and
complaint in the case, which he moved to quash. The trial court granted
Kelley’s motion to quash and concurrently denied plaintiff’s motion for leave
to amend the complaint by alleging that the true name of Dr. George Simms was
Vernon T. Kelley and that Vernon T. Kelley was sometimes known as Dr. George
Simms. The appellate court affirmed the trial court’s order granting the motion
to quash, determining, inter alia, that “the proper procedure for attacking
the validity of a summons which has been served upon a person who is not a
party to an action is by a motion to quash the service thereof.” (Id. at
342.)

























































Jacobo’s reliance on Fuss
v. City of Los Angeles (1958) 162 Cal.App.2d 643 is also misplaced; there,
the appellate court affirmed the trial court’s order quashing service of the
summons on a corporation that had not been designated as a party to the action.
Jacobo, by way of contrast, is a named defendant in Plaintiff’s complaint. 