On December 14, 2021, Plaintiffs Lanksherman Plaza, LLC (“Lanksherman”) and Danny’s Liquor & Market, Inc. (“Danny’s Liquor”) filed the operative Complaint for (1) breach of contract (Lanksherman against Defendant West American Insurance Company (“West”)), (2) breach of contract (Danny’s Liquor against Defendant Massachusetts Bay Insurance Company (“Mass”)), and (3) negligence/negligent entrustment (both Plaintiffs against Defendants Turcios Trucking, Inc., Francisco Aparicio, Romero Turcios).  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Lanksherman owns certain commercial property located at 7202 Lankershim Boulevard, North Hollywood, California 91605.  Danny’s Liquor operates a business at this property.  Francisco Aparicio negligently drove a tractor-trailer into the subject property, causing damage. Defendants Turcios Trucking, Inc. and Romero Turcios are the owners of the tractor-trailer and negligently entrusted Aparicio with such tractor-trailer.  West provided property/commercial liability insurance to Lanksherman for the subject property and breached that policy by failing to pay all damages covered by the policy.  Mass provided a businessowners policy to Danny’s Liquor and breached that policy by failing to pay all damages covered under the policy.West now seeks to compel further responses to most of its requests for production, set one, nos. 1-87 from Plaintiffs Lanksherman and Danny’s Liquor. The responses were all essentially as follows: “Objection: attorney-client privilege, work product. Without waiving this objection, all responsive documents that can be located on a diligent search and reasonable inquiry will be produced.”While nearly sufficient, Plaintiffs apparently failed to indicate what documents relate to what requests.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.280(a).)   Further, Plaintiffs should remove their reference to “documents that can be located”, “if any”, or other similar phrases.  If something cannot be found then a response should be provided pursuant to CCP § 2031.230.  Finally, if documents are being withheld on the basis of a privilege, then the basis for that privilege must be explained or a privilege log must be provided.In sum, the Motions are granted.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court awards reduced sanctions in the total amount of $1,000.  Plaintiffs are jointly and severally liable for this sum. Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 