  Case Number:  21SMCV01145    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion by plaintiff for relief from the orders
granting summary judgment or adjudication against him.  The argument relies primarily on the
declarations of his counsel and counsel’s physician.  Counsel states that he was in the throws of a
devastating mental illness and could not competently represent his client nor could
he file the papers in opposition to two summary judgment motions, describing
the situation in some detail.  Plaintiffs
oppose, arguing that this is not a situation that came on suddenly, but rather
was one that had been ongoing for a long time. 
In addition, although counsel claims he was essentially incapacitated,
he was actively litigating another case in another courtroom during the same
period. 
 
Fuller argues that under CCP 473(b), where counsel confesses
to the malpractice, the court is obligated to grant the motion.  The defense notes that such is not the case
with regard to summary judgment motions, citing to Prieto v. Loyola
Marymount University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 290.  The court agrees that Prieto limits
the mandatory provision to situations of defaults or dismissals, not summary
judgments.  The court therefore believes,
notwithstanding some other authority holding to the contrary, that it has
discretion in this case; it is not bound to set aside the rulings on the two
summary judgment motions.  (McCourt’s
motion for summary judgment was actually denied, but the alternative motion for
summary adjudication was granted and the case was gutted.  Kubota’s motion for summary judgment was
granted.  The court does not believe that
this is a distinction with a difference in the context of the instant
motion.)  But the court does not believe
that the mandatory provisions are essentially a dead letter in this
context.  As the court reads the statute,
the court has discretion; there is no mandatory relief.  But the policies that animate the mandatory
relief still have voice in this context. 
While the voice is not a commanding one, it is still heard.
 
Thus, even if the court is not required to set aside the
summary adjudication/judgment orders, the court has discretion in the
matter.  And here, the court is inclined
to exercise its discretion to grant (but plaintiff needs to read on before
getting too excited).  This motion does
not involve something like mis-calendaring. 
The failure here was more significant. 
Which is why counsel’s declaration was detailed and essentially
confesses gross malpractice.  For all the
court knows, it could be a career-killer. 
And the court is not confident that counsel now has the matter under
control fully.  The level of apparent
candor in the declarations, along with the inevitable consequence of baring all
of this on the public record (Fuller’s counsel elected not to file the motion
under seal) strongly suggests to the court that the declarations are
truthful.  Further, counsel’s statements
are bolstered by a fairly detailed declaration by counsel’s treating
psychiatrist.  But doubts as to whether
counsel is up to the task still linger.
 
Of course, the court is well aware of the rule that client’s
are responsible for their choice of counsel. 
And that rule has bite.  But in
this case, Fuller had already had prior counsel withdraw; Fuller was in no
practical position to do much of anything about his counsel’s failure.  So while Fuller is indeed responsible for his
choice of counsel, the court cannot find fault with Fuller in the sense of
saying that the problem is really with the client, not the attorney.
 
That leaves the question whether the neglect is
“excusable.”  Inexcusable neglect is not
cause to set aside an order—even a very serious one—on the merits.  And the court has read the opposition’s
suggestion that perhaps counsel had some greater degree of control than has
been indicated.  But on the whole, the
court tends to credit the moving declarations (by which the court means the
declaration in the motion and the earlier-filed declarations).  Counsel is very forthright admitting his
fault.  The court has seen the objections
to the declarations, but believes that the objections are not well taken and
they are OVERRULED.
 
In short, the court believes that there is excusable neglect
due to plaintiff’s counsel’s illness.  Of
some additional concern is the fact that the earlier declarations were filed on
October 24, 2024.  The motion to vacate
was not filed until almost a month later, on November 7, 2024, and even then
only because the court set a time limit. 
The court is concerned about that lag. 
The court can get past that, but the concern remains.
 
However, there is a second, and more important,
concern.  As the defense points out, a
motion under section 473(b) must be accompanied by the relevant papers.  Here, that would (presumably) be the
opposition to the two summary judgment motions. 
Yet none was attached here. 
Moreover, the statute says that in the absence of such papers, the
relief “shall not be granted.”  That is
language in the mandatory and it has been so held.  (Austin v. LAUSD (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 918, 932-933 [holding the requirement to be mandatory in the
summary judgment context, but allowing for substantial compliance].)  Here, the motion does not attach the proposed
opposition, nor does it give detail on what the basis for such an opposition would
be.  Because there is neither compliance
nor substantial compliance, the court cannot grant the motion.
 
But having said that, the court is also aware that any
doubts regarding section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief.  (Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)  And such is
the case here.  Absent prejudice to the
defense (and prejudice is not established by showing that the defense may now
have to win on the merits), a motion for relief is to be liberally granted and
a court’s discretion is reviewed more closely where the motion is denied than
where it is granted.  (Ibid.)
 
The court will, therefore, DENY the motion for failure to
attach the opposition papers, but will allow Fuller 5 court days to re-file the
motion with the opposition papers.  The
court recognizes that 5 court days is not a lot of time, especially during the
holidays.  But these papers were due
three months ago and the court has warned Fuller’s counsel—with Fuller
personally present in court—multiple times about the need to bring an
appropriate motion and the need to associate in additional help or co-counsel
if necessary.  There has been adequate
time to address that, and because Fuller was warned personally by the court in
the sense that he was present when these concerns were articulated, time has
essentially run out.  While the court
recognizes that some of the delay was due to the illness in question and before
the court’s warning, Fuller’s counsel stated that much of the work had in fact
been done by the time it was due (although not all of it), and Fuller’s counsel
states that the symptoms have abated since then.  McCourt and Kubota are entitled to have their
motions heard and decided.  If the
opposition is not persuasive, they are entitled to have the case (or large
chunks of it) adjudicated in their favor. 
The court has already had to vacate the trial date, and if the summary
judgment/adjudication motions are denied, that alone is prejudicial to the
defense.  Again, if Fuller’s counsel
needs to associate in some assistance to help put the papers together, he ought
to do so (or, more precisely, he ought to have done so already).  The time has come to get this done.  Along these lines, the court reiterates that
it warned Fuller—and more than once—that he may need to associate in additional
counsel.  Fuller has had plenty of time
to do so and the choice not to do so can no longer be one from which Fuller is
immune.  If the motion is not re-filed
within the 5 day period, and with the papers in opposition to the two motions
previously decided, then the court will not hear further from Fuller and the
prior orders will stand.  
 
The court will say that if plaintiff is able to submit
proper papers, the court would be very inclined to grant the motion under
473(b) and consider the opposition and also restore the two motions to the
calendar.  The court would, of course,
allow for replies.  The court does not
want to re-hash the excusable neglect issue. 
The court notes that the defense, in their opposing papers, did about
all they could to make their case and they showed initiative in the evidence
they were able to put forward.  Even so,
the court is comfortable in its decision.
 
This is, in the court’s view, the most appropriate way
forward.  If Fuller can oppose the
motion, then he ought to have his day in court. 
While the court understands that there will have been a cost and expense
to McCourt and Kubota, in balancing the two the trial is the more
important.  And if Fuller cannot
successfully oppose the motions, then the defense will have a clean record on
appeal.
 
The court will also be open to a monetary sanction to
compensate the defense for the legal expenses in having to attend the prior
hearings and for the opposition to this motion. 
This is not meant to be a punishment to Fuller but rather to compensate
McCourt and Kubota for the unnecessary legal expenses they had to incur due to
the neglect on plaintiff’s part. 
Finally, pending resolution of this issue, Fuller’s present summary judgment
motion will be held in abeyance.  If the
prior orders wind up standing, then this motion will be restored to the
calendar.  If not, then events will have
potentially overtaken it.