 Case Number:  23STCV01336    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



URBAN COMMONS DANBURY, LLC, et al.,
  
        
  vs.
 
CLAYDON HILL INVESTMENTS LTD, et al. 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV01336
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 7, 2024



 
Defendants Claydon Hill Investments Ltd.’s, Compass Cove
Assets Ltd.’s, Bounty Green Assets Ltd.’s, Frank Yuan’s, Jerome Yuan’s, and
Norbert Yuan’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Urban Commons Frontera, LLC’s; Urban Commons
Highway 111, LLC’s; Urban Commons HIDH, LLC’s; Urban Commons Bayshore, LLC’s;
Urban Commons Continental, LLC’s; UCQ Holding, LLC’s; and Urban Commons
Riverside Blvd, LLC’s third amended complaint is sustained without leave to amend as to the 5th and 6th causes
of action.
 
Defendants Claydon
Hill Investments Ltd. (“Claydon Hill”), Compass Cove Assets Ltd. (“Compass Cove”),
Bounty Green Assets Ltd. (“Bounty Green”), Frank Yuan (“Frank”), Jerome Yuan
(“Jerome”), and Norbert Yuan (“Norbert”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to
the 5th and 6th causes of action in the third amended complaint (“TAC”) of Plaintiffs
Urban Commons Frontera, LLC (“Frontera”); Urban Commons Highway 111, LLC
(“Highway”); Urban Commons HIDH, LLC (“HIDH”); Urban Commons Bayshore, LLC
(“Bayshore”); Urban Commons Continental, LLC (“Continental”); UCQ Holding, LLC
(“UCQ”); and Urban Commons Riverside Blvd, LLC (“Riverside”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
on the grounds that Plaintiffs fail to allege facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.  (Notice of Demurrer,
pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10.) 
 
          Evidentiary Objection
          Plaintiffs’ 10/25/24 evidentiary
objection to the complaint filed in Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Woods et al., C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:24-cv-06633-HDV-RAO is overruled.
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
          Defendants’ 9/3/24 request for
judicial notice of the complaint filed in Securities and Exchange Commission
v. Woods et al., C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:24-cv-06633-HDV-RAO (Decl. of Chang
¶3, Exh. A), is granted, however the Court does not consider the truth of the
matters asserted.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach
an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and obviate the
need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a).)
The demurring party
shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating either of the
following: (A) The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with
the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did
not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. (B)
That the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to
the meet and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet
and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel
declares that on August 28, 2024, she met and conferred with Plaintiffs’
counsel telephonically to discuss the instant demurrer, and the parties were
unable to reach an agreement resolving the issues raised by the demurrer.  (Decl. of Chang ¶2.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
Therefore, the Court will consider Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural Background
          Plaintiffs filed their initial complaint
on January 23, 2023.  Plaintiffs filed
their first amended complaint (“FAC”) on August 16, 2023.  Plaintiffs filed their second amended
complaint (“SAC”) on April 9, 2024, against Defendants.  On July 10, 2024, this Court overruled
Defendants’ demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action, and
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the 5th and 6th causes of action with 20 days
leave to amend.  (7/10/24 Minute Order.)
Plaintiffs filed the
operative TAC on July 30, 2024, alleging six causes of action: (1) promissory
fraud [against all Defendants]; (2) breach of contract [against Claydon
Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green (collectively, “BVI Entities”)]; (3)
conversion [against all Defendants]; (4) violation of Penal Code
§496 [against all Defendants]; (5) breach of fiduciary duty [against all
Defendants]; and (6) reformation of contract [against all Defendants].  
Defendants filed the
instant demurrer on September 3, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on October 25,
2024.  Defendants filed their reply on October
31, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege
this action arises from a failed real estate venture.  (TAC ¶14.) 
Plaintiffs allege they were formerly the beneficial owners of hotel
properties, each itself held by a subsidiary holding company.  (TAC ¶14.)
Plaintiffs allege in
2018, each Plaintiff entered into separate “Membership Interest Sale and
Purchase Agreements,” for the purpose of selling their beneficial ownership of
the hotel properties to U.S. Hospitality Investments LLC (“USHI”), effectively
transferring ownership of the underlying hotels to USHI in exchange for
compensation totaling approximately $440 million.  (TAC ¶15.)
Plaintiffs allege pursuant
to the terms of these 2018 Membership Interest Sale and Purchase Agreements, each
Plaintiff received a portion of the compensation for making the sale in cash,
and a portion in the form of a Deferred Payment Obligation (“DPO”) to be paid
at a later date.  (TAC ¶16.)  Plaintiffs allege under the terms of the 2018
sale, the DPO payable to each Plaintiff, to be paid by USHI to Plaintiffs at
some future date, collectively totaled $121,160,851.  (TAC ¶16.)
Plaintiffs allege on
or about April 25, 2019, USHI entered into a “Securities Purchase Agreement,”
by which it agreed to sell its ownership in each of the 8 hotel properties to
Eagle Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust (“Eagle Hospitality”), a “REIT”
that was preparing to have an Initial Public Offering of its shares on the
Singapore Exchange in May 2019.  (TAC
¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege this transaction
valued the eight hotel properties at approximately $539 million, and in exchange
for selling these hotel properties to Eagle Hospitality, along with certain
other assets not at issue in this litigation, USHI was to receive $30 million
in cash, with the remainder of the consideration to be paid in the form of
Eagle Trust stock, which was to be issued as part of Eagle Trust’s upcoming
IPO.  (TAC ¶18.)   Plaintiffs allege USHI’s initial plan was to
use this cash and stock to pay off the DPO then owed to Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶19.)
Plaintiffs allege
that around this same time, April 2019, Plaintiffs entered into discussions
with the Yuans regarding a proposal they made whereby, in lieu of USHI
receiving all of the newly issued Eagle Trust stock to which it was entitled
under the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, USHI would, instead,
transfer a portion of its shares (valued at $156 million) to the Yuans–acting
through their wholly owned and controlled BVI Entities– Claydon Hill, Compass
Cove, and Bounty Green.  (TAC ¶20.)
Plaintiffs allege
that in exchange for USHI transferring these shares to the Yuans, the Yuans,
acting through their wholly owned and controlled BVI Entities, agreed to assume
responsibility for future repayment of the DPO owed to Plaintiffs, which by May
2019, were in excess of $130 million.  (TAC
¶21.)
Plaintiffs allege
that to ensure that repayment to Plaintiffs of their DPO was fully secured, the
Yuans offered to use the $156 million in Eagle Trust shares they were to
receive from USHI as collateral.  (TAC
¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege that in effect,
the idea was that USHI would transfer $156 million of the Eagle Trust stock it
was entitled to receive to the Yuans, and, in exchange, the Yuans would agree
to repay $156 million worth of the Deferred Payment Debt still owed to
Plaintiffs, while simultaneously using the stock received from USHI as security
for such repayment.  (TAC ¶22.)  
Plaintiffs allege
that from their perspective, this transaction had the benefit of allowing
Plaintiffs to continue earning interest on the outstanding DPO at the rate of
15% per year, as provided for in the original 2018 Agreements, while
eliminating the risk inherent in receiving Eagle Trust shares issued on a
foreign exchange, whose future value was uncertain.  (TAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiffs allege the Yuans benefitted by receiving the potential upside
that might accrue should the value of Eagle Trust shares rise in the future.  (TAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiffs allege that ultimately, both USHI and Plaintiffs agreed to
this proposal by the Yuans, which was subsequently memorialized in a series of
written agreements.  (TAC ¶24.)
Plaintiffs allege on
or about May 15, 2019, Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green, acting exclusively
through the Yuans, entered into an “Assignment and Assumption of Deferred
Payment Obligation” agreement, the purpose of which was to “assign and transfer
to [Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green] a portion of the amounts due
[to Plaintiffs] in the aggregate amount of $156,000,000. . ..”  (TAC ¶25, Exh. 1 at Recital D.)
Plaintiffs allege Section
2 of this agreement provides that Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green:
hereby accept the assignment and transfer of the [$156 M] Deferred Payment
Obligation, and assume the obligation to pay the Deferred Payment Obligation in
accordance with the terms of the Installment Notes, in the following percentage
amount of the Deferred Payment Obligation: Claydon Hill Investments LTD–25.85%,
Bounty Green Assets LTD–14.15%, and Compass Cove Assets Limited–60%.  (TAC ¶26.)
Plaintiffs allege
Section 4 of this agreement provides that:
[a]s consideration for “[Claydon Hill’s,
Compass Cove’s, and Bounty Green’s] assumption of the [$156 M] Deferred Payment
Obligation, [USHI] agrees that it shall direct the escrow agent for the initial
proceeds of the IPO to pay to [the BVI Entities] from the escrow an amount
equal to the [$156 M] Deferred Payment Obligation in the following percentage amounts:
Claydon Hill Investments LTD – US$40,326,000.00, Bounty Green Assets LTD-
US$22,074,000.00, and Compass Cove Assets Limited – 93,600,000.00.
 
(TAC ¶27.)
          Plaintiffs allege that to effectuate
the transfer of Eagle Trust stock to the Yuans, on May 16, 2019, USHI executed
Escrow Instructions, by which it instructed that the Eagle Trust shares to
which it was otherwise entitled be transferred to various accounts controlled
by the Yuans at UBS Bank as follows: $40,452,000 worth of shares to Claydon
Hill; $22,143.000 worth of shares to Bounty Green; and $93,891,000 worth of
shares to Compass Cove.  (TAC ¶28, Exh.
2.)
Plaintiffs allege
that to further document this transaction, on or about May 20, 2019, Claydon
Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green, acting exclusively through the Yuans,
entered into a “Pledge Agreement.”  (TAC
¶29, Exh. 3.)
Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that Claydon Hill is the alter ego of Frank, Compass
Cove is the alter ego of Norbert, and Bounty Green is the alter ego of Jerome
in that these entities (“BVI Entities”) have maintained such a unity of
interest and ownership with these individuals such that the separate
personalities of the corporate entity and the individual defendants no longer
exist and that an inequitable result would follow if they were treated as
separate individuals.  (TAC ¶11.)
Plaintiffs allege
that pursuant to this Pledge Agreement, the BVI Entities collectively agreed to
pledge a total of $210 million worth of their newly-received Eagle Hospitality
shares (an amount in excess of the $156 million worth of shares transferred
from USHI) as collateral to ensure repayment of the DPO owed to Plaintiffs
(“Pledged Shares”).  (TAC ¶30.) 
Plaintiffs allege This
Pledge Agreement provided, in section 2, that:
until all sums due under the [Deferred
Payment Obligation] have been paid in full, and all of [Claydon Hill, Compass
Cove, and Bounty Green]’s obligations under this Agreement have been performed,
[Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green] will not, without [Plaintiff’s]
prior written consent (i) sell, assign or transfer, or attempt to sell, assign
or transfer, any of the [Pledged Shares . . .]; or (iii) suffer or permit to
continue on any of the [Pledged Shares] during the term of this Agreement, an
attachment, levy, execution or statutory lien.
 
(TAC ¶31.)
          Plaintiffs allege the Eagle Trust IPO
took place on May 24, 2019, and Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on or
about that date, Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green collectively
received more than $210,000,000 worth of Eagle Trust shares, including the $156
million worth of shares that would have otherwise gone to USHI for the benefit
of Plaintiffs, but which USHI transferred to the Yuans, acting through Claydon
Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green.  (TAC
¶32.)
          Plaintiffs allege on or about November
5, 2019, Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green, acting exclusively
through the Yuans, entered into a “First Amendment Pledge Agreement,” whereby the
Yuans, acting through the BVI Entities, reaffirmed their obligations to
Plaintiffs under the original Pledge Agreement and further identified and pledged
to Plaintiffs the UBS Accounts purportedly holding the Pledged Shares.  (TAC ¶33, Exh. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege this agreement provided, inter
alia, that until all of the Yuan’s obligations to repay the DPO owed to
Plaintiffs had been completed, “all Collateral will continue to be held in
Pledge Under this Agreement.”  (TAC ¶33,
Exh. 4.)  
          Plaintiffs allege that notwithstanding
that the Yuans repeatedly represented to Plaintiffs that they would hold the
Pledged Shares to secure repayment of the DPO owed to Plaintiffs, and that the
Pledged Shares would not be sold without Plaintiffs’ knowledge or consent (or
without using the proceeds from such sales to pay the DPO owed to Plaintiffs),
Plaintiffs are informed and believe that soon after entering into the original Pledge
Agreement in May 2019, Defendants began selling the Pledged Shares, and using
the proceeds from such sales for their own personal benefit, and not to pay the
DPO owed to Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶34.)
          Plaintiffs allege on information and
belief that between the time they received the Pledged Shares and March 2020,
the Yuans (acting through the BVI Entities), without the authorization or
consent of Plaintiffs, sold the majority of the Pledged Shares through the
Singapore Exchange.  (TAC ¶35.)
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that the proceeds from such sales
were used for the Yuans’ personal benefit and not to pay the DPO owed to
Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶35.)
Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that Frank, Jerome, and Norbert  (collectively, “Yuans”) were engaged in the
following activities vis-à-vis the BVI Entities that they owned and controlled,
rendering the alter ego doctrine applicable: (1) Failure to adequately
capitalize the BVI Entities; (2) Treatment of the BVI Entities assets as their
own; (3) Commingling of funds and other assets and the unauthorized diversion
of the BVI Entities’ funds or assets for other than the BVI Entities’ Defendant
uses to the detriment of creditors; (4) Failure to maintain minutes or adequate
records; (5) Disregard of legal formalities; (6) Representations that the Yuans
are personally liable for the BVI Entities debts; and (7) Use of the BVI
Entities as a mere shell, instrumentality, or conduit for a single venture.  (TAC ¶12.)
 
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendants demur to the 5th and 6th causes of action in the TAC on the
basis the 5th cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Defendants, and that the 6th cause of action for reformation
of contract is time-barred.  (Demurrer,
pg. 3.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of Action
          Breach of
Fiduciary Duty (5th COA)
To plead a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff
must allege facts showing the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach,
and damage proximately caused by that breach.  (Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
1093, 1101.)
“A fiduciary relationship is ‘“any relation existing between parties to
a transaction wherein one of the parties is . . . duty bound to act with the
utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a relation
ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity
of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed,
if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no
advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the
latter’s knowledge or consent.”’” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)
Plaintiffs allege, “[b]y virtue of their past dealings with Plaintiffs,
and by virtue of entering into the Assignment and Assumption of DPO agreement,
Pledge Agreement and First Amendment Pledge Agreement with Plaintiffs,
Defendants assumed a fiduciary duty to protect the Plaintiff’s interests in the
Pledged Shares, which included the fiduciary duty to avoid taking actions that
would compromise or adversely affect Plaintiffs’ security interest in the
Pledged Shares.”  (TAC ¶74.)  Plaintiffs allege, “[s]pecifically, by
entering into the transactions described herein, Plaintiffs entered into a joint
venture with the Yuans and/or the BVI Entities, according to which both sides
sought to jointly profit from the creation of Eagle Trust and its ultimate
success. Joint venturers have a fiduciary duty to act with the highest good
faith toward each other regarding the affairs of the joint venture. Hasso v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140.”  (TAC ¶75.)  
Plaintiffs allege in the alternative, “the Yuans and/or the BVI
Entities were in a confidential or other relationship with Plaintiffs whereby
Plaintiffs reposed their confidence in Defendants, who accepted and/or assumed
that confidence. In this context, Plaintiffs were completely dependent on
Defendants, and as such, the relationship gave rise to fiduciary duties owed by
Defendants to Plaintiffs.”  (TAC ¶76.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege a fiduciary duty owed to them by Defendants
as a matter of law.  First, with regard
to Plaintiffs’ allegation that they entered into a joint venture with the Yuans
and/or the BVI Entities, Plaintiffs fail to allege the facts establishing the
existence of a joint venture.  
A joint venture is “an undertaking by two or more persons, or entities,
jointly to carry out a single business enterprise for profit.”  (Ramirez v. Long Beach Unified School District (2002) 105 Cal.App.4th 182,
193.)  “The elements necessary to show
the existence of a joint venture” are: “(1) joint interest in a common
business; (2) with an understanding to share profits and losses; and (3) a
right to joint control.”  (580 Folsom Associates
v. Prometheus Development Co. (1990) 223
Cal.App.3d 1, 14-16.)
Here, Plaintiffs
fail to allege any facts to establish the elements for a joint venture giving
rise to a fiduciary duty.  Plaintiffs fail
to allege any joint interest with Defendants in a common business.  Instead, Plaintiffs allege that the deal
surrounding Eagle Hospitality Trust was self-interested.  (See TAC ¶23.)  Further, Plaintiffs fail to allege that the
parties agreed to share losses or have mutual control over the alleged joint
venture.  Instead, Plaintiffs merely
allege that “by entering into the transactions described herein, Plaintiffs
entered into a joint venture [with Defendants], according to which both sides
sought to jointly profit from the creation of Eagle Trust and its ultimate
success.”  (TAC ¶75.)  Plaintiffs fail to allege shared losses or mutual
control over any alleged common business.  Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations of a joint
venture, without more, is insufficient to establish a fiduciary relationship.
Second, Plaintiff’s allegation in the alternative that their entry into
a contract with Defendants also fails to give rise to a fiduciary
relationship.  “[P]arties to a contract,
by that fact alone, have no fiduciary duties toward one another.”  (Rickel v. Schwinn Bicycle Co. (1983) 144
Cal.App.3d 648, 654; Waverly Productions, Inc. v. RKO General, Inc.
(1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 721, 732 [“A mere contract or a debt does not constitute
a trust or create a fiduciary relationship” on which a breach of fiduciary duty
claim may be based].)
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 5th cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
          Reformation of
Contract (6th COA)
Civil Code §3399 provides that “[w]hen through fraud or a mutual
mistake of the parties, or a mistake of one party, which the other at the time
knew or suspected, a written contract does not truly express the intention of
the parties, it may be revised on the application of a party aggrieved, so as
to express that intention, so far as it can be done without prejudice to rights
acquired by third persons, in good faith and for value.”
A claim for reformation of an instrument based on fraud or mistake is
subject to a three-year statute of limitations, which begins to run when the
plaintiff discovers, or by reasonable diligence could and should have
discovered, the alleged mistake.  (Civ.
Code §338(d); North Star Reinsurance Corp. v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1815, 1822.)
Plaintiffs’ reformation of contract claim is
based on the fact that both the Pledge Agreement (TAC ¶29, Exh. 3) and First
Amended Pledge Agreement (TAC ¶33, Exh. 4) described the Plaintiffs as Delaware
limited liability companies, when in fact, five of the seven plaintiffs are California
entities.  (See TAC ¶¶83-84.)  Plaintiffs allege that the failure to properly
label these entities with their correct state of incorporation was the result
of  “mutual mistake and/or the mistake of
one party.”  (TAC ¶85.)  Plaintiffs allege that all the parties to
these agreements clearly understood, at the time, that some of the Plaintiffs
were, in fact, California limited liability companies, and that these
agreements were intended to apply to the Plaintiffs, as described herein.  (TAC ¶84.) 
Plaintiffs allege this mistake was not discovered until Plaintiffs’
current counsel discovered it soon after entering the case in late 2023.  (TAC ¶86.)
The statute of limitations on the reformation
claims accrued at the time of the execution of the agreements in May and
November 2019, when Plaintiffs should have reasonably been on notice of their
incorrect LLC designations.  (See TAC
¶83.)
“In order to rely on the discovery rule for
delayed accrual of a cause of action” under Civil Code §338(d), “[a] plaintiff
whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without the
benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the
time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier
discovery despite reasonable diligence.” 
(Lauckhart v. El Macero Homeowners Association (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 889, 901.)  Here, Plaintiffs
fail to allege their inability to have discovered the alleged mistake
earlier, or by reasonable
diligence could and should have discovered, the alleged mistake.  (Civ. Code §338(d))
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 6th cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ TAC is sustained without leave to amend as to the 5th and
6th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  