 Case Number:  BC469464    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GINA CASTLEBERRY PREWITT, et al.,  
  
        
  vs.
 
WEIGHT LOSS CENTERS, et al.


 Case
  No.:  BC469464
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 7, 2024



 
Moving Defendant Marvin Anton Perer, M.D.’s motion for
summary judgment of Plaintiffs Gina Castleberry Prewitt’s and Adrian Prewitt’s second
amended complaint is continued to February 6, 2025 pursuant to C.C.P. §437c(h).
 
Defendant
Marvin Anton Perer, M.D. (“Perer”) (“Moving Defendant”) moves for summary
judgment of Plaintiffs Gina Castleberry Prewitt (“Gina”) and Adrian Prewitt’s
(“Adrian”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) second amended complaint (“SAC”) on the
grounds his care and treatment of Gina complied with the standard of care, no
act or omission caused or contributed to Gina’s claimed damages, and to the
extent that Gina’s medical malpractice cause of action fails, so too must Adrian’s
loss of consortium cause of action, which is a derivative claim.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §437c.)  
Moving
Defendant moves in the alternative for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ 1st,
2nd, and 6th causes of action.  (Notice
Motion, pgs. 2-3.)  Moving Defendant seeks
adjudication of the 1st cause of action for medical malpractice on the basis he
complied with the standard of care in his care and treatment of Gina and no
actions or failures to act by him were a substantial factor in causing Gina’s
injury.  (Notice Motion, pg. 3.)  Moving Defendant seeks adjudication of the
2nd cause of action for intentional misrepresentation/fraud on the basis:
(a)(1) Dr. Perer made no representations to Gina; (2) the alleged
misrepresentations not only preceded plaintiff’s first encounter with Moving
Defendant, Gina’s reliance on those representations in the form of her decision
to undergo the lap band procedure had also preceded her first encounter with
Moving Defendant; (3) Moving Defendant was not a managing officer, agent or
director of any of the codefendants, as such there was no ratification by him;
and (b) Moving Defendant has no knowledge and had no involvement in the
billing, for medical services for Gina or other patients, which was done
exclusively by others (codefendants). (Notice Motion, pg. 3.)  Moving Defendant seeks adjudication of the
6th cause of action for loss of consortium on the basis Adrian’s derivative
claim for loss of consortium fails because there was no negligence by Moving
Defendant in the medical care of Adrian’s wife, Gina.  (Notice Motion, pg. 3.)
Plaintiffs’
expert, Dr. Paul Key is unavailable to testify in this matter.  (Opposition, pg. 17.)  Moving Defendant’s motion is continued to
February 6, 2025, to allow for additional expert discovery necessary to rule on
the instant motion.  (C.C.P. §437c(h); see
Nazar v. Rodeffer (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 546, 555-556 [stating court shall
deny the motion or order a continuance for discovery where it appears there may
be additional evidence is mandatory.].)
Accordingly,
Moving Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is continued to February 6, 2025.

Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  November
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  