  Case Number:  21STCV21084    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
Hearing Date: 8/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV21084 GALINA KOPELEV vs
CHURCHILL CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant HOA Organizers,
Inc
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER IS REFERRED
TO DISCOVERY REFEREE
 
Plaintiff, in pro per,
seeks to compel further responses to Plaintiff's special interrogatories, set
one and two; form interrogatories, set one; requests for admissions, set one;
and requests for production, set one and two. As a preliminary matter, a single
motion to compel further should be limited to one set of discovery responses.
Plaintiff requests to compel two sets of discovery responses in each motion.
For example, Plaintiff requests further responses to both form interrogatories
and requests for admission in one motion. Combining multiple motions under the
guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court
Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover,
combining motions deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to
collect. While the Court would forgive this technicality and consider the
substance of the multiple requests within one motion, it does not address the
substance herein due to procedural issues as discussed below.
CCP § 2031.310(b)(2)
states the motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040; no declaration was attached to the motions.  Plaintiff is hereby advised that the Court
will hold her to the same standards as a party with counsel – so, if a meet and
confer statement is required, she is to provide one.
Having read the various
positions in this case, the Court finds that Defendant’s request for the Court
to appoint a discovery referee is appropriate and necessary.  Having reviewed Defendant’s proposed referee
list, the Court appoints Ann Kough under the terms set forth by Defendant.  If for some reason, Judge Kough (Ret.) is not
available, the Court appoints Gary Nadler. At the point that the $10,000 cap is
reached, the parties shall no longer be subject to the referee
appointment.  The motions at issue here
are referred to the referee for recommendation – the Court believes that
addressing these motions through a referee, who can spend time with the parties
to address the various issues raised, will be the most beneficial use of a
referee, thereby setting the stage for the litigation to continue most efficiently.
 
The Court will further
address these issues with the parties.