 Case Number:  23STCV00877    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 8/14/23
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV00877 SHARITA RANDLESTON
vs NICOLE LORRAINE
Moving Party: Defendant Kaiser 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS GRANTED
 
Background
Defendant Nicole Linton
worked as a nurse for Defendant AMN Healthcare,[1] who placed Plaintiff at
Kaiser West LA as a temporary nurse. While in that role, Linton was not
authorized to perform any work outside of Kaiser West LA or at any other Kaiser
location. 
At approximately 1:00
p.m. on August 4, 2022, Linton left in the middle of her shift without
informing her supervisors. Linton was neither asked to leave the premises nor
instructed to perform any errands or tasks by her supervisors. Linton drove
away from the premises in her personal vehicle and allegedly caused a
multi-vehicle collision over four miles away when she went through a red light.
This collision led to several deaths, including Plaintiff’s daughter. Plaintiff
is suing Defendant Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (“KFHP”) for (1) negligence,
(2) wrongful death, and (3) negligent entrustment and negligent retention and
supervision. 
KFHP now moves the
Court for summary adjudication on the causes of action for negligence and
wrongful death, arguing that Linton was not acting within the scope of her
employment at the time of the incident under the “going and coming rule.” KFHP
also moves the Court for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s negligent
entrustment claim, contending that Defendant KFHP did not own or possess the
vehicle, an element Plaintiff must prove to prevail under this theory of
recovery.
Legal Standard
        Motion for Summary Adjudication
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts
must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to
carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be
in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but
instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the
court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather
than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
 
Going
and Coming Rule 
“‘Under
the ‘going and coming’ rule, an employee going to and from work is ordinarily
considered outside the scope of employment so that the employer is not liable
for his torts.’”  (Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. v. Department of
Transportation (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 87, 95-96 (quoting Hinman v.
Westinghouse Electric Co. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 956, 961).)  “The rationale
for the rule is that the employment relationship is suspended from the time the
employee leaves work until he or she returns because an employee ordinarily
renders no service to the employer while traveling.”  (Pierson v.
Helmerich & Payne Intern’l. Drilling Co. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 608,
618.)
Courts have recognized
exceptions to the “going and coming” Rule.  (Marez v. Lyft, Inc.
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 569, 578; Lantz v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 298, 309; Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. v.
Department of Transportation (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 87, 96.)   One such exception arguably applicable here
is the “special risk” exception. 
        Under
the “special risk” exception, “an injury is compensable if, before entry upon
the premises, an employee suffers injury from a special risk causally related
to employment.”  (Santa Rosa Junior College v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals
Bd. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 345, 353.)  “[T]he exception will apply (1) if
‘but for’ the employment the employee would not have been at the location where
the injury occurred and (2) if ‘the risk is distinctive in nature or
quantitatively greater than risks common to the public.’”  (Id. at
354 (quoting Gen. Ins. Co. v. Workers’ Comp. App. Bd. (Chairez) (1976)
16 Cal.3d 595, 600).) 
Evidentiary
Ruling
The Court overrules Plaintiff's Objections Nos. 1-6. The
Parties did not make any other objections to evidence that were material to the
Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)
Discussion
Defendant’s Initial Burden
Defendant KFHP’s
evidence establishes the following:
·       
During her assignment, Linton reported
only to the West LA Hospital. (SSUMF ¶ 1.) 
·       
Nothing in Ms. Linton’s job description
required her to perform any work outside of the West LA Hospital, and she was
never asked or expected to do any such work. (Id. at ¶ 2.) 
·       
At no point prior to the collision had
Linton been assigned to report to any other KFHP location. (Id. at ¶ 3.)

·       
KFHP  did not provide Linton—and does not provide
nurses generally—a vehicle, nor was Linton required to use a vehicle to
accomplish her work at the West LA Hospital. (Id. at ¶¶ 4-6.) 
·       
KFHP did not require Linton to use any
particular method of transportation to commute to and from the West LA
Hospital. (Id. at ¶ 9.) 
·       
Defendant did not assign a company
vehicle to Linton (SSUMF ¶¶ 4-6)
·       
On August 4, 2022, Ms. Linton’s only
responsibility at the West LA Hospital was the care of a few patients. (SSUMF ¶
70.) 
·       
During the afternoon of August 4, around
1:00 p.m., Linton left the West LA Hospital without informing her supervisors
that she was leaving. Neither Ms. Okorie nor Arturo Lasquete, the charge nurse
who provided on-the-floor supervision, asked Linton to do anything off-site,
and neither knew where she had gone. (Id. at ¶¶ 66-69.)
·       
Linton typically worked three days a
week, for a total of 36 hours. (Id. at ¶ 56.) 
·       
During the week of the collision,
Linton’s first 12-hour shift was on August 1, 2022. (Id. at ¶ 57.) 
·       
After a day and a half off, Ms. Linton
began her second 12-hour shift on August 3, which ended around 7:30 p.m. (Id.
at ¶ 58.) 
·       
The next morning, her third shift
started around 7:00 a.m. (Id. at ¶ 59.) Linton then worked just over six
hours before abruptly leaving the West LA Hospital sometime after 1:00 p.m. (Id.
at ¶ 60.) 
·       
After Linton left Kaiser West LA, she
was not performing any work, duties, or errands for KFHP and her patients had
to be reassigned to other nurses. (SSUMF ¶¶ 68, 70.)
·       
The incident leading to this lawsuit
occurred approximately four miles away from the Kaiser West LA Hospital, at the
intersection of Slauson Avenue and La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles, at
approximately 1:30 p.m., on August 4, 2022.
Through this evidence, Defendant
KFHP met its initial prima facia burden to establish a defense under the goings
and comings doctrine to the negligence and wrongful death causes of action.  Linton had left work at the time of the
incident. She was not performing any errands or tasks as requested by
Defendant, nor was she going to another Kaiser location as requested by her
supervisor or required by her work. Defendant also showed that Linton had
plenty of rest prior to her shift on the date of the accident where she left
without telling her supervisor and got into the accident at issue by driving
through a red light.
        Defendant also met its burden to establish that Plaintiff
cannot meet at least one element of the negligent entrustment cause of actions:
Defendant has presented evidence demonstrating that the car operated was owned
and possessed solely by Plaintiff. Defendant did not assign a company vehicle
to Plaintiff (SSUMF ¶¶ 4-6), nor did Defendant require Plaintiff to use any
particular method of transportation for commuting (SSUMF ¶ 9).
Plaintiff’s Opposition
Coming
and Going Rule
Plaintiff
appears to argue that Defendant did not meet its burden regarding the special
risk exception to the going and coming rule, relying on Purton v. Marriott
International, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499, in which the court held
that an employer may be found liable for its employee's torts as long as the proximate
cause of the injury occurred within the scope of employment. 
Plaintiff
first argues that Defendant did not meet its burden of proof because the
evidence does not show where Linton was headed when she drove her car and got
into an accident. This argument is not persuasive because Defendant has
demonstrated that Linton was not asked to perform any off-site duties or
errands by Defendant at the time of the incident. In fact, Defendant’s evidence
establishes that contingency hires are not allowed to perform any off-site
tasks or work for any other Kaiser locations. When Linton left the premises on
the date of the incident, she did so without informing her supervisor, who
consequently had no idea where she went. Although Defendant did not show where
Plaintiff was headed, it did show that she was leaving work and was not
performing any tasks for Defendant.
Plaintiff
then draws a comparison to Purton v. Marriott International, Inc., supra, 218
Cal.App.4th 499, and argues that Linton’s supervisors, who are all educated,
had expressed concerns relating to Plaintiff’s alleged underperformance both
the day prior to and on the day of the incident. Despite this, not only was
Linton allowed to leave the hospital without question, but her below-standard
performance and failing mental state were not addressed prior to her departure.
This
analysis overlooks the central point of Purton: the injury was
caused by drinking alcoholic beverages, an activity that had become a customary
incident of the employment relationship in that case. The allegation that
Plaintiff’s employer did not prevent Plaintiff from leaving is irrelevant if
the accident was not proximately caused by an 'outgrowth' of the employment.
The risk of tortious injury must be "inherent in the working environment"
or "typical of or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has
undertaken.” (Depew v. Crocodile Enterprises, Inc. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
480, 488-89.) 
Furthermore,
the argument that Linton was allowed to leave the hospital without question,
and her below-standard performance and failing mental state were not addressed
prior to her departure, pertains to Plaintiff’s claims of negligent retention,
supervision, and hiring, which are not the subjects of this  motion. The issue of vicarious liability is
not focused on what should reasonably be avoided, but rather on the more or
less inevitable toll of a lawful enterprise, as articulated in Hinman v.
Westinghouse Electric Co. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 956, 960.
What
Defendant has demonstrated is that Linton was working approximately three days
a week and had a day and a half off prior to her shift on the date of the
incident. Under a similar set of facts in Depew v. Crocodile Enterprises,
Inc., supra., the court found an insufficient causal nexus between
the employment and the resultant death. Specifically, the court ruled that a
break of 16 hours between shifts, followed by six hours of work, does not
constitute the type of excessive workload that makes falling asleep at the
wheel and killing another driver "a generally foreseeable
consequence" of operating a restaurant. Similarly, here, nothing inherent
in the working environment or incidental to the enterprise, such as the working
hours of the job, was the proximate cause of the incident. 
Triable
Issue of Fact
Plaintiff
attempts to raise a triable issue of fact by pointing to the presence of a work
cell phone as an indication that Linton was performing an errand or some
work-related task for Defendant at the time of the incident. Once Defendant has
met its initial burden by demonstrating that no work-related task was performed
by Plaintiff at the time of the incident, the onus is on Plaintiff to present
affirmative evidence. To
raise a triable issue of fact, Plaintiff needs to set forth specific facts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) If Plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Evidence that only gives rise to mere
speculation is similarly ineffective to establish a triable issue of fact. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Nor can the opposing party
create a triable issue by attacking the credibility of the moving party’s
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c.) 
Without
further evidence, the connection between the presence of a work phone and the
allegation that Linton was performing an errand for Defendant is speculative
and does not raise a triable issue of fact. Had there been a text message on
the work cell phone from Plaintiff’s supervisor instructing her to perform
certain errands, the situation might have been different. However, the mere presence
of a work cell phone, without more, does not establish a triable issue of fact.
Furthermore,
Plaintiff points to Defendant's alleged awareness of Linton’s shortcomings and
mental instability the day prior to the incident. However, this does not raise
a triable issue of fact for a finding of vicarious liability. In Purton v.
Marriott International, Inc., the court established that an employee’s
intoxication contributed to an accident because the consumption of alcohol
occurred at a company event which had become a customary incident of the
employment relationship. Similarly, to advance a comparable argument in this
case, it must be shown that Linton's unusual behavior stemmed from conditions
related to her employment. 
In
the moving papers, Defendant has demonstrated that Linton’s alleged strange
behavior was not due to factors typically associated with employment, such as
long, consecutive work hours. Consequently, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
present affirmative evidence that connects Linton's strange behavior to her
employment conditions and shows how this behavior approximately caused the accident
at issue.
Plaintiff
has not done so. Plaintiff did not identify any specific aspect of Linton’s
employment that could have contributed to her alleged strange behavior, nor
show how such conditions would be considered an inherent outgrowth of her
employment. Furthermore, there is no clear explanation of how these alleged
strange behavior or poor work performance caused the traffic accident. Without
addressing these crucial factors, Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of
fact regarding Kaiser’s liability for negligence or wrongful death. 
Job
Abandonment 
Even
if an exception to the going and coming rule is found to be applicable, the
employee may yet be found outside the scope of his employment if, at the time
of the accident, he has completely abandoned his employer's business for
personal reasons. (Felix v. Asai (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 926, 932–33; Loper
v. Morrison (1944) 23 Cal.2d 600, 604-607.) To constitute an abandonment,
however, the deviation or departure from the employer's business to pursue a
personal errand must be substantial and complete. (Trejo v. Maciel,
supra, 239 Cal.App.2d at p. 496.) A mere deviation for personal reasons will be
insufficient. Where the employee may be deemed to be pursuing a business errand
and a personal objective simultaneously, he will still be acting within the
scope of his employment. In determining whether an employee has completely
abandoned the pursuit of a business errand for a personal objective, a variety
of relevant circumstances should be considered and weighed, such as the intent
of the employee, the nature, time, and place of the employee's conduct, the
work the employee was hired to do, the incidental acts the employer should
reasonably have expected the employee to do, the amount of freedom allowed the
employee in performing his duties, and the amount of time consumed in the
personal activity. (Felix v. Asai (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 926, 932–33.)
Based
on evidence submitted by Defendant, the court finds that defendant has met its
burden in showing that Linton abandoned her job. First, Linton left abruptly in
the middle of her shift, did not inform her supervisor, and as a result her
supervisor had to have other nurses cover her station as a result of her
departure. Second, Linton was not asked to perform any errands on the date of
the incident, nor was she authorized to perform any off site nursing duties or
work at any other kaiser locations. Plaintiff argues that there is no evidence
indicating where Linton was going, why she left, how long she had been away
from the West Los Angeles hospital, or what her intent was in leaving. While it
is true that Defendant did not present any evidence regarding Linton’s actual
intentions or destination, the evidence presented does demonstrate that she
left Kaiser for reasons related to Kaiser.
Whether
or not Plaintiff was still on the clock at the time of the incident or should
receive payment for the time leading up to and as of the collision is not
considered by the court in Felix v. Asai, nor has Plaintiff introduced
any legal authority to demonstrate its relevance to the issue of whether
Plaintiff abandoned her job. Based on the foregoing analysis, the court is not
persuaded by Plaintiff’s arguments and has determined that Defendant has
successfully met its burden. Plaintiff solely contests job abandonment on the
basis that Defendant failed to meet its burden and did not attempt to raise a
triable issue of fact on this matter. 
Thus,
Summary Adjudication as to the Plaintiff’s first and second cause of action is
GRANTED.
Negligent
Entrustment
Plaintiff
does not contest Defendant’s postion as to Plaintiff’s theory of recovery for
negligent entrustment. Defendant has presented evidence demonstrating that the
car operated was owned and possessed solely by Plaintiff. Defendant did not
assign a company vehicle to Plaintiff (SSUMF ¶¶ 4-6), nor did Defendant require
Plaintiff to use any particular method of transportation for commuting (SSUMF ¶
9). Plaintiff does not dispute this and did not raise a triable issue of fact.
Therefore, summary adjudication is GRANTED as to this issue.
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 


