 Case Number:  22STCV28375    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV28375 ASHER DEAN HATCH vs
SONIA SHOUKAT, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Cross Defendant
Responding Party: Defendant/Cross Complainant
Sonia Shoukat
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES
AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
On May 10, 2024, Cross-Defendant Asher Dean Hatch
served Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, Form
Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One on
Cross-Complainant, Sonia Shoukat. Cross-Complainant did not provide any
responses nor request any extensions prior to the statutory deadline. On July
3, 2024, Defense counsel wrote to Cross-Complainant’s counsel in an attempt to
meet and confer regarding Cross-Complainant’s outstanding discovery responses,
to which no response was provided. Cross-Defendant now moves the Court to
compel initial responses.
 
No opposition or any filing indicating that the
responses at issue were served prior to the hearing. Thus, the present motion
is granted. Cross-Complainant is hereby ordered to provide complete and
verified responses to Requests for Production, Set One, Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objections within 20
days of today.
 
Cross-Defendant requests sanctions
in the amount of $810 per motion, which the Court finds reasonable. Sanctions
are mandatory, and the Court finds Cross-Complainant did not act with
substantial justification. Accordingly, Cross-Complainant Sonia Shoukat and her
attorney are jointly and severally liable for sanctions in the amount of
$2,400, payable to Cross-Defendant within 20 days of today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 