  Case Number:  24VECV01997    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  W ALliant credit union v. hasan
 
plaintiff’s application for writ of possession
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 13, 2024                          Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV01997
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Alliant Credit Union   
Responding
Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a collections case. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff Alliant Credit Union filed
a complaint against Defendant Batool Hasan for claim and delivery of personal
property and money on contract. Plaintiff alleges there is an outstanding
balance of $38,033.45. Plaintiff now applies for a writ of possession to obtain
possession of the 2014 Audi RS7-V8.  
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of
Possession is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession,
the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2)
a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any
affidavit in support thereof. (CCP §512.030.) 

 
The
court file reflects proper substituted service of the summons, complaint,
notice of application, and application upon Defendant Hasan. As a result, the court addresses the merits of the application below.
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include: 1)
Plaintiff’s basis for the claim and entitlement to possession; 2) Defendant’s
wrongful detention; 3) description of the property; 4) location of the property
and  probable cause to believe that such
property is located there; and 5) the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment or fine or seized under an execution against the property.  
 
Plaintiff provides the declaration of Stanley
Chism, an authorized signatory of Plaintiff, to establish the facts relevant to
the writ application. Plaintiff has demonstrated an entitlement to possession
of the property claimed due to Defendant’s default under the Agreement and the
probable validity of Plaintiff’s claims for claim and delivery and money on
contract. (Chism Decl. ¶¶5-10.) The evidence demonstrates the existence of the
Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant. (Chism Decl. ¶4, Exh. A.) Plaintiff
also provides the California Certificate of Title evidencing Plaintiff’s legal
title to and perfected security interest in the motor vehicle. (Chism Decl. ¶4,
Exh. B.) Plaintiff asserts Defendant failed to make the payments due and owing
under the contract from September 10, 2023. (Chism Decl. ¶5.) Plaintiff has
made a demand for Defendants to surrender the vehicle pursuant to the contract,
but Defendant has not done so. (Chism Decl. ¶5.) The account was charged off on
March 25, 2024 and currently there is due and owing $38,033.45 with other
charges as provided in the Contract. (Chism Decl. ¶5.) Accordingly, the court
finds Plaintiff has demonstrated it has been damaged by being deprived of
possession of the vehicle.
 
Plaintiff has also provided a particular
description of the property and the value of the property. (Application ¶4.)
Moreover, Plaintiff has provided that the vehicle has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
against the property of the plaintiff. (Application ¶8.) Plaintiff further
claims the vehicle is in possession at 7404 Louise Ave. Van Nuys, CA 91406. (Chism
Decl. ¶10.)  
 
Plaintiff has met its burden in demonstrating
their entitlement to a writ of possession. As a result, Plaintiff must file an
undertaking “in an amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's
interest in the property or in a greater amount” unless the court finds the
defendant has no interest in the property. (CCP §515.010(a), (b).) “The value
of the defendant's interest in the property is determined by the market value
of the property less the amount due and owing on any conditional sales contract
or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances on the property, and any
other factors necessary to determine the defendant's interest in the property.”
(Id.) 
 
The approximate retail value is between $23,825.00
and $25,650.00. (Chism Decl., ¶6 Exh. C.) Plaintiff contends Defendant owes $38,033.45.
Since Defendant owes more than the market value of the Vehicle, Defendants have
no interest in the Vehicle pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010.
The court thus waives the requirement to file an undertaking for Defendant’s
interest. 
 
The application for writ of possession is GRANTED.
