 Case Number:  23STCV12145    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SWAMP CAPITAL
  LLC, 
  
         vs.
 
H.O.T.N.
  HOLDINGS, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV12145
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024



 
Plaintiff Swamp Capital LLC’s second
amended motion to compel arbitration is granted.  This case is stayed pending arbitration.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for October 13, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Plaintiff Swamp Capital LLC (“Swamp”) (“Plaintiff”) moves for an
order compelling Defendants to arbitration on the basis Defendants are bound by
a written agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of the Complaint.  (Notice of Amended Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P.
§1281.2.)  
 
Background
On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed its initial complaint against
Defendants H.O.T.N. Holdings, LLC (“Holdings”), H.O.T.N. Club, Inc. (“Club”),
Libra Hollywood, LLC (“Hollywood”), Libra Crenshaw, LLC (“Crenshaw”), Zaremy
Inc. (“Zaremy Inc.”), J. Mills, Inc.’s (“Mills
Inc.”), PMOrdonez Company (“PMO Co.”), BAU Inc. (“BAU Inc.”), John Greenwood
(“Greenwood”), Howard J. “Josh” Mills (“Mills”), Pedro Ordonez (“Ordonez”), and
Bradley Ulisky (“Ulisky”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging (1) breach of contracts; (2) fraud; (3) conversion; and
(4) appointment of a receiver.  Plaintiff
filed its operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) on December 21, 2023.
On November 28, 2023, this Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to
compel arbitration on the basis Plaintiff failed to meet its burden to prove
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement with Defendants.  (See 11/28/23 Minute Order, pg. 6.)
Plaintiff filed another motion to compel on April 2, 2024, which
was denied by this Court on April 8, 2024. 
(See 4/8/24 Minute Order.)
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on April 19, 2024.  Defendants filed their opposition on August
8, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its second
amended motion on September 6, 2024.  As
of the date of this hearing no reply has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
Under
California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to
C.C.P. §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of
the parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) ¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ 
“To
determine whether a contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a
particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is
whether that controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration
clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as
to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be
resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order
them to arbitrate unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be
interpreted to cover the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Association¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿¿ 
“[A]
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, 149 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1284.)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
A.              
Existence
of an Agreement to Arbitrate
In
determining the enforceability of an arbitration agreement, the court considers
“two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the
dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
955, 961.)¿¿
 
1.     Agreement Between the Parties 
The
moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the existence of an
arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to this motion
bearing the signature of the opposing party.  (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco,
LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can
meet its initial burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the¿respondent's signature.”].)  Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion.  (See CRC, Rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  
Here,
Plaintiff provides a copy of the parties’ Confidential Settlement Agreement and
General Release of Claims (“Settlement Agreement”).  Section 19 of the Settlement Agreement
explicitly provides that the parties agree to submit any dispute arising or
related to the Settlement Agreement to binding arbitration. (Decl. of Fierro,
Exh. 3 at ¶19.)
Further,
Plaintiff submitted evidence of Fierro’s and Plaintiff’s entry into an
Assignment of Rights Agreement, dated December 6, 2023 (“Assignment”).  (Decl. of R. Shekarchian, Exh. 1 at §1.)  Based on this the Court finds that Plaintiff
has met its initial burden.  
“If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party
disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the
burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158, 165.)  The evidence must be sufficient to create a
factual dispute to shift the burden back to the arbitration proponent who
retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the
authenticity of the signature.  (Iyere
v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755).  Here, Defendants do not present any opposition
contesting the existence of the Agreement. Therefore, the Court finds that an
agreement to arbitrate exists.
 
2.     The Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue 
Per the
Agreement, “The Parties agree to submit any dispute arising or related to this
Agreement to binding arbitration pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act and
conducted by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Rules by
a single neutral arbitrator.”  (Decl. of Fierro,
Exh. 3 at ¶19.)  Here, the action arises
from an alleged breach of the parties’ agreements, including the parties’
memorandum of understanding, specifically regarding the completion of the sale of
the residential property.  (See
FAC.)  Thus, the agreement covers the
dispute. 
 
B.               
Enforceability
of the Arbitration Agreement
Once it
is determined that a valid arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to
the opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to
the petition.”  (Lacayo v. Catalina
Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review denied
(Nov. 13, 2019)).  Here, Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s extensive litigation conduct runs inconsistent with its right
to arbitrate, thus waiving its right to file the instant petition, citing Kokubu
v. Sudo. 
The Court
disagrees.  In Kokubu, the court
found that appellant waived his right to compel arbitration by substantially
invoking the litigation machinery. Kokubu v. Sudo (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th
1074, 1086.  Indeed, even under general
contract law, Plaintiff’s actions do not indicate a waiver of its right to
arbitrate. (Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (Cal. 2024) 323
Cal.Rptr.3d 126, 143.) “To establish waiver under generally applicable contract
law, the party opposing enforcement of a contractual agreement must prove by
clear and convincing evidence that the waiving party knew of the contractual
right and intentionally relinquished or abandoned it.”  Here, Defendants provide the declaration of
its counsel who states that the matter has been proceeding for well over a year
and has been involved in extensive litigation, including “(1) a demurrer filed
by Defendants; (2) an amended pleading; and numerous Motions to Compel
Arbitration and (4) ex parte applications filed by Plaintiff.” (Decl. of Bauer
¶2.) Counsel states that despite executing an assignment of rights agreement on
December 6, 2023, Plaintiff continued to engage in several months of pretrial
litigation to appoint a receiver, receive a preliminary injunction against
Defendants, and compel arbitration.  (Decl.
of Bauer ¶¶3-6.) 
However,
this does not provide the Court with clear and convincing evidence that the
Plaintiff has relinquished or abandoned its right to arbitrate. Rather, it
shows that Plaintiff has consistently maintained its right to arbitrate, going
so far as to address its previous standing issue by executing an assignment of
rights agreement with Fierro and maintaining that right through the pretrial
litigation.  Defendants do not assert any
other argument barring enforcement thus the Court finds the requirements to be
satisfied. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is granted.
 
Stay
of Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
Conclusion
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
The case is
stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance case review for October
13, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 

 
Dated:  October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  