 Case Number:  22STCV37974    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



THE
  PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,  
  
         vs.
 
ZRP
  BURBANK, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV37974
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024



 
Defendant
City of Burbank’s motion permitting the continued public use of the Subject
Property for street and sewer purposes until an actual project requiring
imminent relocation of the City’s improvements in the Subject Property is
identified, at which point the fair market value of the City’s easement
interest and the cost of relocation of the City’s facilities will be paid to
the City as part of that project, is granted. 

 
Defendant City of Burbank (“City”) (“Moving Defendant”)
moves for an order ruling that it is entitled to continue the public use to
which the property sought to be taken is appropriated by Plaintiff The People
of the State of California by and through the Department of Transportation
(“Caltrans”) (“Plaintiff”).  (Notice
Motion, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §1240.630(b).)
 
Background
In 2019, Plaintiff filed its first condemnation
action, The People of the State of California v. ZRP Burbank, LLC, LASC
Case No. BC701431, to acquire the same easement identified as Parcel 80284-1.  The Court dismissed the matter without
prejudice at a continued Order to Show Cause re: Settlement.  Plaintiff and the City were unable to finalize
the terms of the tentative settlement. 
Plaintiff
filed the instant complaint in eminent domain on December 5, 2022.  The instant motion concerns Parcel 80284-1
(“Property”).  (Complaint ¶8.) Defendant
ZRP Burbank, LLC (“ZRP”) is the fee owner, Defendant City is an easement
holder, and Defendant County of Los Angeles Tax Collector holds a tax lien over
the Property.  (See Complaint ¶6.)
City
filed the instant motion on August 16, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed its opposition on September 30, 2024.  City filed its reply on October 4, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
A condemnor may exercise the power to acquire
property already appropriated to public use if the use for which the property
is sought to be taken is a more necessary public use than the use to which the
property is already appropriated. 
(C.C.P. §1240.610.)
C.C.P. §1240.630 provides:
(a)   Where property is sought to be taken under Section
1240.610, the defendant is entitled to continue the public use to which the
property is appropriated if the continuance of such use will not unreasonably
interfere with or impair, or require a significant alteration of, the more
necessary public use as it is then planned or exists or may reasonably be
expected to exist in the future.
 
(b)   If the defendant objects to a taking under
this article on the ground that he is entitled under subdivision (a) to
continue the public use to which the property is appropriated, upon motion of
either party, the court shall determine whether the defendant is entitled under
subdivision (a) to continue the use to which the property is appropriated; and,
if the court determines that the defendant is so entitled, the parties shall
make an agreement determining the terms and conditions upon which the defendant
may continue the public use to which the property is appropriated, the terms
and conditions upon which the property taken by the plaintiff is acquired, and
the manner and extent of the use of the property by each of the parties. Except
as otherwise provided by statute, if the parties are unable to agree, the court
shall fix such terms and conditions and the manner and extent of the use of the
property by each of the parties.
 
(C.C.P.
§1240.630.)
In such
a controversy, the condemnor has the burden of proof to show that the proposed use
is both inconsistent with and more necessary than the existing one.  (City of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles Pacific
Co. (1916) 31 Cal.App. 100, 115.)
 
Discussion
Defendant City’s motion is granted.
Here,
City currently uses the Subject Property for extra traffic lanes and capacity
on Victory Place and for a sewer line.  (Decl.
of Sozio, Exh. J at ¶4.)  Narrowing the
street to accommodate the physical 90-foot right of-way will exacerbate an
already-existing traffic congestion issue on Victory Place as a result of both
the construction and the reduced street capacity.  (Decl. of Sozio, Exh. J at ¶4.)  Estimates of the cost to do so, in addition to
relocating the sewer line located beneath, were over $4 million in 2016.  (Decl. of Sozio, Exh. J at ¶¶5-7.)
Plaintiff
fails to show an existing or planned use not too distant in the future.  (C.C.P. §1240.630(a).)  Plaintiff does not have final plans for
Metro’s relevant proposed projects and does not identify when the Subject
Property will be used by Metro and/or when construction will start.  Moreover, those Metro plans do not require the
immediate relocation of the City’s existing street and sewer uses.   Metro
has conceded it would be reasonable for the City to continue its use of the
Subject Property for street and sewer purposes until Plaintiff identifies an
actual project necessitating relocation, which will be done as a part of that
actual project. (Decl. of Sozio, Exh. J at ¶10.)
Further,
Plaintiff’s argument in its opposition that that Subject Property is being
acquired for the “Interstate 5 Improvement Project” does not align with its
allegations in its Complaint, which characterizes the acquisition as “[f]or
Freeway purposes, a railroad easement.” 
(Compare Opposition, pg. 5 with Complaint, Exh. 3.)
Assuming,
arguendo, Plaintiff established a reasonably anticipated use of the Subject
Property as conveyance to Metro “for railroad purposes,” Plaintiff also must
also show that the City’s use would interfere with or impair Plaintiff’s use to
a “point of unreconcilable conflict.”  (City
of Pasadena v. California-Michigan Land and Water Co. (1941) 17 Cal.2d 576,
583.)  For example, Plaintiff would need
to provide actual plans or an actual conflict with the City’s present use.
Otherwise, there is no basis to conclude the City’s use conflicts with Plaintiff’s
reasonably anticipated use.
Here, Plaintiff
fails to identify what the “future” need for the Subject Property is beyond “State
highway purposes,” or “railroad purposes,” which Plaintiff is further unable to
define.  “Reserving” land for future
tracks that are not yet planned, existing, or reasonably existing in the future
is not inconsistent with the City’s continued use of that land for street and
sewer purposes until relocation is actually necessary.  Plaintiff fails to meet its burden to show “a
point of
unreconcilable
conflict” between the City’s existing use of its easement for street and sewer purposes
and Plaintiff’s acquisition of the Subject Property for “railroad purposes.”
          Accordingly, City’s motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
Defendant City’s motion permitting the City’s
continued public use of the Subject Property for street and sewer purposes
until an actual project requiring imminent relocation of the City’s
improvements in the Subject Property is identified, at which point the fair
market value of the City’s easement interest and the cost of relocation of the
City’s facilities will be paid to the City as part of that project, is granted.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  