  Case Number:  23STCV04078    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JARO CUSTODIO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV04078
  Hearing Date:  June 21, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for summary judgment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 23, 2023, Plaintiff Jaro
Custodio filed this action for medical malpractice against Defendant County of
Los Angeles. The complaint is based on injuries that Plaintiff allegedly
suffered as a result of an IV being placed in his left arm during treatment for
appendicitis at LAC+USC hospital in February 2022. Plaintiff was allegedly
diagnosed with septic thrombophlebitis, phlebitis, cutaneous abscess, and thrombophlebitis
in his left arm, and allegedly required surgery to remove the damaged vein. The
surgery allegedly left Plaintiff with severe pain and permanent scarring.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to obtain informed consent for the
appendectomy and left arm surgery, and negligently treated his left arm IV.  
            On January 18, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff filed his opposition on June
3, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on June 13, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Defendant’s objections are
overruled. 
 
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Medical Malpractice
“The elements of a cause of action for
medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach
of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct
and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore v. Dickey
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) “The first element, standard of care, is the
key issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by expert testimony,
unless the circumstances are such that the required conduct is within the
layperson's common knowledge.” (Ibid.) 

Defendant argues that its medical staff
met the standard of care by obtaining informed consent for the appendectomy and
left arm surgery through Plaintiff’s parents. Defendant further contends that
it did not cause the injuries to Plaintiff’s left arm.  
II.
Informed Consent 
It is undisputed that at the time
Plaintiff presented for treatment, he was suffering from psychiatric issues and
could not make decisions for himself. (UF 5.) Plaintiff’s mother, Monica
Garcia, testified that she signed a consent form for her son to be treated with
emergency surgery. (Law Decl., Ex. D at 16:10-13.) Defendant’s expert, Frank
Candela, MD, avers that “[t]he standard of care was met when plaintiff’s
mother, Monica Garcia, provided consent for the emergency appendectomy due to
patient being assessed to not being able to make decisions on his own.”
(Candela Decl. ¶ 29.) An Inpatient Progress Note indicated that “patient and
his father agree[d] to proceed with surgical management” of Plaintiff’s left
arm. (Law Decl., Ex. B, p. 423.)  
However, Ms. Garcia denied signing the
specific form that was showed to her during the deposition. (Law Decl., Ex. D
at 16:17-22.) Defendant’s evidence does not contain a signed consent form. Plaintiff’s
expert, April Hernandez, BSN, RN, CEN, avers that “the standard of care
requires that there be a signed informed consent detailing the exact procedures
to be performed on Plaintiff before LAC could proceed.” (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 23.)
Ms. Hernandez avers that the lack of such a writing in Plaintiff’s medical records
for either the appendectomy or left arm ligation falls below the standard of
care. (Ibid.) 
On this record, a triable issue remains as
to whether Defendant obtained informed consent for the two procedures. A
reasonable trier of fact may conclude that the standard of care requires a
signed writing detailing the precise procedure to be performed and infer from
the absence of such a writing that Defendant failed to obtain informed consent.
Ms. Garcia’s testimony that she gave consent for “emergency surgery,” and the
inpatient note indicating that Plaintiff’s father agreed to “surgical
management,” do not establish as a matter of law that Plaintiff’s parents
provided consent specifically for an appendectomy and left arm ligation.
Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether Defendant obtained informed
consent. 
For this reason alone, summary judgment
must be denied. Lack of informed consent is an independent ground for medical
malpractice, regardless of whether the underlying treatment was performed competently.
(See Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 235 [“The jury could have found
for plaintiff either by determining that defendant negligently performed the
operation, or on the theory that defendant's failure to disclose the inherent
risks of the initial surgery vitiated Plaintiff's consent to operate”].) 
III.
Causation
            Defendant contends that it did not
contribute to the septic thrombophlebitis and subsequent vascular surgery of
Plaintiff’s left arm because there were numerous checks of the IV line and
documentation indicating no complaints of pain or distress until March 5, 2022.
(UF 26-28.) Dr. Candela avers that the standard of care was met when the IV
line was promptly discontinued on March 5, 2022 upon indications of leaking and
pain. (Candela Decl. ¶¶ 32-33.) Dr. Candela avers that septic thrombophlebitis
can be a complication from appendectomy even in the absence of medical
negligence. (Id., ¶ 34.)  
On the other hand, Ms. Hernandez avers
that Defendant’s handling of the IV fell below the standard of care for a
variety of reasons: (a) the site should have been assessed every two hours, but
records indicate it was checked for the first time two days after initial
insertion; (b) IV catheters must be changed every 72 to 96 hours, but
Plaintiff’s IV was left in for 11 days; (c) the IV was not properly labeled to
indicate the date of insertion and gauge of needle used; (d) IV tubing must be
changed every 24 hours, but no record indicates this was done; (e) dressing on
an IV site must be changed every 7 days, but this was not done; (f) signs of
infection emerged as early as March 3, 2022 with Plaintiff’s elevated heart
rate and temperature and complaints of pain, but the IV was not removed until
March 5, 2022; (g) upon infection at an IV site, a new IV should not be
inserted in a site lower than the affected area, but Plaintiff’s IV was
replaced in his left hand despite signs of infection on his left arm; and (h)
an ultrasound of Plaintiff’s left arm should have been conducted on March 5,
2022, but was not performed until March 7, 2022. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 24.) 
            Ms. Hernandez concludes that the septic
thrombophlebitis in this particular case was caused by negligent treatment of
the IV rather than a complication from the appendectomy because the infection
was localized to Plaintiff’s left arm, and Plaintiff was otherwise recovering
well from the appendectomy. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 25.) A reasonable trier of fact
confronted with this evidence may conclude that Defendant’s actions fell below
the standard of care and caused Plaintiff’s injuries. 
In sum, there are triable issues of fact
as to whether Defendant obtained informed consent to perform the subject
surgeries and whether Defendant acted within the standard of care in treating
Plaintiff’s IV. Therefore, summary judgment is not warranted. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. 
 