 Case Number:  23STCV25037    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
PAULA PURCELL,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL MANAGEMENT LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV25037
  Hearing Date:  June 21, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff Paula
Purcell filed this action against Defendants Equity Residential Management LLC
and Duane Oseguera. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s neighbor harassed
and terrorized her and that Defendants knowingly failed to address the
situation. Plaintiff has since dismissed Duane Oseguera from the complaint. 
            On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant two motions to compel Defendant Equity’s further responses to special
interrogatories and requests for production. Defendant filed its oppositions on
June 7, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on June 14, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
 
 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Greer Decl., Ex. D.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Requests for Production
            Plaintiff argues in the motion, as
she did in the meet and confer letter, that Defendant’s responses to the RFPs
fail to provide proper statements of compliance or noncompliance. (See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240.) For the RFPs where Defendant
intends on producing documents, Defendant’s responses fail to specify whether
the production will be allowed in whole or in part, do not confirm that all
responsive documents will be produced, and do not specify which documents have
been withheld based on objections. For the RFPs that Defendant cannot comply
with, Defendant’s responses fail to specify the reason for the inability to
comply and fail to identify persons believed to be in possession of the
documents. 
            Defendant’s responses to RFP Nos. 9,
10, 11, and 23 are defective for the additional reason that they are evasive.
Defendant provided informational responses, as if answering an interrogatory,
or referenced its response to an interrogatory, instead of addressing the
documents requested. Defendant cites no authority suggesting that this is a
proper way to respond to RFPs.
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to the
RFPs.  
II.
Special Interrogatories
            a. SROG Nos. 6 and 8
            SROG Nos. 6 and 8 ask for the
context in which Plaintiff first mentioned the allegedly harassing neighbor,
Mr. Mahn. It is unclear what Plaintiff means by “context.” Therefore, the
motion is DENIED as to SROG Nos. 6 and 8.  
b. SROG No. 9
            SROG No. 9 asks Defendant to state
each date during the lease period that it was aware of the police being called
to the subject property. Defendant responded by stating that Plaintiff called
the police approximately three times. This is incomplete, as the SROG asks for
the dates. 
Defendant argues that the information is
equally available to Plaintiff because she is the one who called the police.
However, the SROG does not seek to ascertain all of the times that Plaintiff
called the police. Instead, it seeks to ascertain when Defendant was aware of
the police being called, which is a different inquiry. This information is
solely in Defendant’s possession. 
Defendant argues that the request is
unduly burdensome and overbroad. However, Defendant acknowledges that it is
only aware of Plaintiff calling the police three times. 
Identifying those three dates is not unduly burdensome. The request only asks
for the times that Defendant was aware of the police being called, not for all
of the times that the police were ever called. The request is also limited in
time to the lease period. Defendant has failed to articulate any undue burden
or expense from answering this SROG, and the SROG is not overbroad. Therefore,
the motion is GRANTED as to SROG No. 9.      
c. SROG Nos. 10 and 11
SROG Nos. 10 and 11 ask Defendant to
describe the maintenance performed in Plaintiff’s and Mr. Mahn’s units,
respectively. Defendant responded that it will produce the work order history
and inspection report for the units. This is nonresponsive, as it fails to
answer the interrogatory by describing the maintenance performed. 
A responding party may reference documents
in response to an interrogatory “[i]f the answer to an interrogatory would
necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is
directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be
substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the
responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.) Defendant has demonstrated
neither of these prerequisites. Furthermore, even where such reference is
permitted, the response must “be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding
party to locate and to identify, as readily as the responding party can, the
documents from which the answer may be ascertained.” (Ibid.) Defendant’s
responses do not provide any detail for Plaintiff to locate responsive
information. 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to
SROG Nos. 10 and 11. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED in part as set forth above. Defendant shall
provide supplemental responses within 20 days of this order. Sanctions are
denied as the parties acted with substantial justification. 
 