 Case Number:  23CHCV00885    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 10-2-23
Case # 23CHCV00885 
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Angelica Town Homes HOA
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Martin Mikaeili, et al.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action: Fraud and
Concealment
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Negligent
Misrepresentation
·        
4th Cause of Action: Constructive
Fraud
·        
5th Cause of Action: Unfair Business
Practices
·        
8th Cause of Action: Breach of
Governing CC&Rs
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Allegations in Support of, and Claim for,
Punitive and Treble Damages
·        
Claim for Attorney Fees
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On January 10, 2021, Plaintiffs Martin and Katrin
Mikaeili purchased 10215 Variel Ave., #7, Chatsworth from defendants Jettidy
and Melanie Kuch. Sellers were represented by defendants Mariana Vassileu
Michael Gilbert working for Coldwell Banker. The property was inspected by
defendant Khatri International, Inc. The property was developed by defendants
Irving Kovalsky and Angelica Kovalsky, with the common areas of property are
governed by defendant Angelica Town Homes HOA. Defendant Stephanie Goralski
with defendant Finance of America Mortgage, LLC, conducted the appraisal of the
home.
 
Plaintiffs allege the property was represented as free
from defects, especially water intrusion and mold. Upon acceptance of
possession of the property, Plaintiffs discovered undisclosed structural
defects with the property, which among the problems includes water intrusion
and mold. 
 
On March 28, 2023, plaintiffs filed their complaint for
Fraud and Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation, Professional Liability,
Constructive Fraud, Unfair Business Practices, Negligence, Strict Liability,
Breach of Governing CC&Rs, and Nuisance.
 
RULING
Demurrer: Sustained with Leave to Amend in Part; Overruled
in Part
Motion to Strike: Denied in Part, Granted in Part
Defendant Angelica Town Homes HOA brings a demurrer to the
first, second, fourth fifth, and eighth causes of action for Fraud and
Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation, Constructive Fraud, Unfair Business
Practices, and Breach of Governing CC&Rs. Defendant contends the challenged
causes of action lack factual support. Plaintiffs have filed an untimely
opposition on September 26, 2023. (CCP § 1005(b).) The court exercises its
discretion to consider the late-filed opposition. (CRC, rule 3.1300(d).)  
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
Fraud Causes of
Action (1st, 2nd, and 4th causes of action)
 
Defendants argue
that the first cause of action for fraud and concealment, the second cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, and the fourth cause of action for
constructive fraud fail to plead sufficient specific facts to support their
claims. Specifically, Defendants argue that the Complaint fails to state what
alleged representations were made or omitted, when the representations or
omissions were made, how they were made, and who from the Defendants made any
representations to Plaintiff. 
 
The elements of
fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170,
184.)  “Negligent misrepresentation is a species of the tort of
deceit and, like fraud, requires a misrepresentation, justifiable reliance and
damage.” (Melican v. Regents of University of
California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 181-182.)  “Constructive fraud
‘arises on a breach of duty by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship
to another which induces justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice.’
[Citation.] Actual reliance and causation of injury must be shown. [Citation.]”
(Tyler v. Children’s Home Society (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 511, 548
 
In California,
fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity and
the plaintiff must plead facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered. [Citation]”. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  “The requirement of
specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the plaintiff to
allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.”  (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ fraud
claims allege that Plaintiffs were deceived into the purchase of the Subject
Property. Plaintiffs allege that the Subject Property had been staged and was
represented in photos to be an attractive unit free of any defects. (Complaint
¶ 15.) However, Plaintiffs discovered a crack in the kitchen floor underneath
the refrigerator after the close of the transaction. (Complaint ¶ 20-22.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants… intentionally failed to disclose to
Plaintiffs that the Subject Property was defective in any manner,” “Defendants…
had actual and constructive knowledge of the material facts relating to the
defects and maintenance problems….” (Complaint ¶¶ 31, 33; see also ¶¶ 40-41
50-51.) 
 
The court agrees
with Defendants that the fraud causes of action do not meet the specificity
requirement. The fraud causes of action do not allege specific representations
that misled Plaintiffs, when these representations were made, and who from
Defendant Association or Infinity made any representations to Plaintiffs.
Additionally, with respect to the constructive fraud claim, Plaintiffs fail to
allege any facts, other than conclusions, to show a fiduciary relationship
between Moving Defendants and Plaintiffs.  
 
As such, the
demurrer to the fraud causes of action are sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Unfair Business
Practices (5th Cause of Action)
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs lacks standing and fails to plead their cause of action for
Unfair Business Practices. 
 
 To
set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code section
17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17200.) “A
plaintiff alleging unfair business practice under these statutes must state
with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of
the violation.”¿ (Khoury v.¿Maly's¿of California, Inc.¿(1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)¿ To support this cause of action, a plaintiff must
specify the statutory section that has been violated and describe with
particularity the alleged violation.¿ (See¿5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th
ed. 2008), § 779, p. 196.)¿
 
The Complaint
alleges that Defendants engaged in unfair business practices by concealing “(1)
material facts relating to the defects alleged herein and water intrusion and
mold issues in the Unit, (2) the lawsuits relevant to the Property involving
water and/or mold issues, (3) failing to provide Plaintiffs with all of the
disclosures and sign all of the documents relating to the sale of the Property
prior to closing.”  (Complaint ¶ 55.) 
 
The Complaint
fails to specify whether these unfair business practices are allegedly
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent. Additionally, Plaintiffs fail to state with
particularity the facts supporting this claim. Specifically, Plaintiffs do not
state what material facts, lawsuits, or disclosures were concealed. Additionally,
if Plaintiffs are attempting to bring a claim under the unfairness prong of the
UCL, the claim must be tethered to a constitutional, statutory, or regulatory
provision. Plaintiff fails to do this. Under the fraudulent prong, Plaintiff
has not alleged fraud with requisite specificity. 
 
As such, the court
sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of action with leave to amend. 
 
Breach of
CC&Rs (8th Cause of Action) 
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs lack standing and have failed to plead a cognizable breach of
CC&Rs. 
 
To assert a claim
for breach of contract or breach of the CC&Rs, Plaintiffs must establish
(1) the existence of a contract between the plaintiff and defendant, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff. (CACI 303; Kumaraperu v.
Feldsted, (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 60.)
 
The Complaint
alleges that the Association is responsible for repairing, replacing,
restoring, and maintaining all major components, including damage to the Common
Areas, remedying damage to separate interests. (Complaint ¶ 72, Ex. A.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants violated CC&R sections 1.10, 1.12, 3.01,
2.03, 3.03, 6.01, 6.02, and 6.03 by failing to correct these defects.
(Complaint ¶ 74-75.) Additionally, the Complaint alleges that Infinity was
required to manage the property of the Association pursuant to a Management
Agreement. (Complaint ¶ 77.) The Complaint alleges that Infinity breached the Management
Agreement by failing to manage the Subject Property, maintain official records
of the HOA, failing to maintain and repair common areas, and investigate
defects. (Complaint ¶ 82.) Plaintiffs allege that because of these breaches,
Plaintiffs have suffered injuries to their rights and benefits of being a
Member of the Association. (Complaint ¶ 84.) 
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs are not parties to the Management Agreement between the
Association and Infinity, thus they do not have standing. However, Plaintiffs
have alleged that they own the Property managed by the HOA and Infinity.
(Complaint ¶ 14.) As such, they have standing to sue under a breach of the
CC&R. Although the Complaint alleges that Infinity breached the Management
Agreement, the Complaint also alleges that Defendants breached provisions of
the CC&Rs. Additionally, the court can only consider the face of the
complaint and items that can be judicially noticed. The complaint does not
indicate that Plaintiffs are not a party or a third-party beneficiary of the
Management Agreement. 
 
As such, the
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move
to strike the following portions of the Complaint: 
1. Page 5,
Paragraph 20, Line 13: “intentionally”. 
2. Page 5,
Paragraph 22, Line 22: “intentionally”. 
3. Page 6,
Paragraph 31, Line 22: “intentionally”. 
4. Page 7,
Paragraph 34, Line 5: “intentionally”. 
5. Page 7,
Paragraph 38: In its entirety. 
6. Page 15,
Paragraph 93: In its entirety. 
7. Page 16,
Prayer for Relief, Paragraph 1:“For General Damages not less than $100,000,
according to proof.” 
8. Page 16,
Prayer for Relief, Paragraph 4: “For exemplary and punitive damages not less
than $100,000, according to proof.”
9. Page 16,
Prayer for Relief, Paragraph 7: “For attorneys’ fees and costs incurred herein,
according to proof.”
 
As the court has
sustained the cause of action for fraud, the motion to strike is moot as to
Nos. 3 (Page 6, Paragraph 31, Line 22: “intentionally”), 4 (Page 7, Paragraph
34, Line 5: “intentionally”), and 5 (Page 7, Paragraph 38: In its entirety). 
 
Defendants cite
to no authority that allow the Court to strike the word “intentionally.” As
such, the court denies the motion to strike as to Nos. 1 (Page 5, Paragraph 20,
Line 13: “intentionally”) and 2 (Page 5, Paragraph 22, Line 22: “intentionally”).

 
The court grants
the motion to strike as to Nos. 6 (Page 15, Paragraph 93: In its entirety) and
8 (Page 16, Prayer for Relief, Paragraph 4:“For exemplary and punitive
damages not less than $100,000, according to proof.”). The Complaint does not plead sufficient specific facts to
constitute fraud, malice, or oppression. As such, the Complaint does not state
facts sufficient to support punitive damages. 
 
The court denies the
motion to strike as to No. 7 for general damages. Although “[n]o California
case has allowed recovery for emotional distress arising solely out of property
damage,” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 554), Plaintiff has
alleged mental and emotional distress arising from the loss and enjoyment of
their home at the HOA, humiliation, embarrassment, injury to reputation and
general fear and worry about the loss of the value of their home. (Complaint ¶
84.) “General damages are often characterized as
those that flow directly and necessarily from a breach of contract, or that are
a natural result of a breach.” (Lewis Jorge Construction Management,
Inc. v. Pomona Unified School Dist. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 960, 968.) Even if
Plaintiff is not awarded emotional distress, other damages may arise from a
result of the breach of contract. As such, the motion to strike is denied. 
 
The court denies
the motion to strike as to No. 9 for attorney fees. Civil Code § 5975 awards
attorney fees for the prevailing party when a suit is brought to enforce
covenants, restrictions, and governing documents. As Plaintiffs have properly
pled a breach of CC&Rs. 
 
The demurrer is
sustained in part as to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and
5th causes of action with 30 leave to amend. The demurrer to the 8th
cause of action is overruled. 
 
Plaintiffs may NOT add new causes of action and are only
granted leave to add additional facts. (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any new causes of
action added without leave from court are subject to a motion to strike. If
Plaintiffs fails to file an amended pleading Angelica Town Homes HOA is ordered
to answer the remaining causes of action pled against it. 
 
The motion to strike is granted in part as to Nos. 6 and 8.
The court denies the motion to strike as to Nos. 1, 2, 7, and 9. The motion to
strike is moot as to Nos. 3, 4, and 5. 
 
Second demurrer from Coldwell Banker, et al. scheduled for October
5, 2023.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.
 