 Case Number:  23CHCP00167    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
10-2-23
Case
#23CHCP00167
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Respondent, State Farm Mutual Insurance Co.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Petitioner, Agnes Lemons 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motions
for Protective Order
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
April 21, 2023, Agnes Lemons filed a petition for uninsured motorist
arbitration. 
 
RULING: Granted
Respondent State Farm Mutual Insurance Co. (State Farm) moves
for a protective order on the Person Most Qualified Deposition notice. State
Farm contends the deposition is improperly overbroad in that the only issue in
an uninsured/underinsured motorist petition is the amount of damages. A PMQ is
not required to determine this amount. Nothing in the petition allows for
inquiry into a potential bad faith action for the wrongful withholding of
insurance coverage benefits.
 
Discovery disputes in an uninsured motorist arbitration
petition are resolved by the trial court not the arbitrator. (Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f); State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company v. Robinson (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 276, 282.) A Court may make
any order that justice requires to protect a party from “unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment or oppression or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subdivision (b)(1).) The
burden of proof is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good
cause” for the order he or she seeks. (Fairmont
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  A motion for a protective order “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subdivision (a)). “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) 
 
The
deposition subpoena seeks information regarding claims of negligence,
contribution, and excessive medical treatment by claimant, as well as
preexisting injuries, witness statements, and information regarding the
accident itself. State Farm presents proof of its efforts to meet and confer
which received no response. [Declaration of Angelika Hakopian, ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. C.]
The claim adjuster, the would be PMQ, concedes to the existence of the
uninsured/underinsured policy, and agreement of 100% fault for purposes of
determining resolution of the policy claim. The adjuster denies the existence
of any written or recorded statements regarding the collision. All provided
information regarding the vehicle collision was turned over to Petitioner.
[Declaration of Ashley Dominguez, Ex. E.]
 
“The
policy or an endorsement added thereto shall provide that the determination as
to whether the insured shall be legally entitled to recover damages, and if so
entitled, the amount thereof, shall be made by agreement between the insured
and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by arbitration.” (Ins. Code,
§ 11580.2, subd. (f).) Given the acceptance of fault by State Farm, the only
issue remaining is for the determination of the amount of damages. (State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1431.) Nothing in the
petition addresses bad faith damages, and such consideration is barred. (Id.
at p. 1434.)
 
Again, with the acceptance of fault, provision of all
information regarding the collision and denial of any witness statements, the
only remaining items for consideration go to the claims of negligence,
contribution, preexisting condition(s), and excessive medical damages. Any and
all medical records and/or statements by claimant were presumably supplied by
claimant and therefore require no additional compelled discovery. Thus, the
purpose of the PMQ deposition apparently goes to a challenge in the withholding
of benefits, rather than the adjudication of the damages claim. The court finds
the deposition notice unnecessary and harassing. The unopposed motion for
protective order is GRANTED. No deposition of the PMQ need go forward, and
petitioner waived any future effort to enforce the subpoena in failing to
oppose the subject motion.
 
State
Farm to give notice.
 