  Case Number:  20STCV30775    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  74 MOVING PARTY:                Intervenor/Defendant
Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB, 
as Trustee for Verus Securitization Trust 2020-2
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Lela
Ltanya Brown-Luke

 
Motions for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
and for Sanctions
 
The
court considered the moving papers, oppositions, and replies in connection with
each motion.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute over title to real property. Plaintiff Lela Ltanya
Brown-Luke contends her late mother, Erma Vivian Brown, intended to leave real
property to her children after her death via a revocable trust. Plaintiff
contends her niece, Andrea Brown, obtained title to the property from Erma
prior to Erma’s death by fraud or forgery. Plaintiff sued Andrea Brown and
Andrea Brown’s father (Plaintiff’s brother) Andre Brown, several mortgage
companies, and the notary who facilitated the transfer, for quiet title and
related claims.
            The
Court refers to decedent Erma Brown, plaintiff Lela Brown-Luke, and defendants
Andrea and Andre Brown by first names for clarity, not out of familiarity or
disrespect.
On
February 26, 1958, Erma and her husband acquired title to the property located
at 3976 3rd Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90008 (“the Property”). (UMF 1-2.) They
took title as joint tenants. (UMF 2.) When Erma’s husband died in 2005, she
became the sole owner. (UMF 6.)
            On
January 24, 2014, Erma created the Erma Brown Revocable Trust (“the Trust”),
naming herself as settlor and trustee. (UMF 8; D.Exhs. D, CC.) She deeded the
Property to the Trust the same day. (D.Exh. D.) The Trust named Andre as first successor
trustee after Erma’s death, followed by one Patricia Williams, followed by
Plaintiff. (D.Exh. CC [Trust Document], ¶ 6.2, p. 0020.)
            The
Trust provided for the distribution of its property upon Erma’s death as
follows:
“If any of the children of the
settlor survive her, the trustee shall divide the trust property into as many
shares of equal market value as are necessary to create one share for each of
the settlor’s children who survive her ... . The trust shall distribute one
share outright to each of the settlor’s surviving children ... .”
(Id., ¶ 5.3(a), at p. 0019.)
            Defendant
Andrea Brown is Andre’s daughter, Lela’s niece, and Erma’s granddaughter. (UMF
3-5.) Andrea claims Erma approached her and asked her to buy the Property from
the Trust; Erma wanted to refinance her reverse mortgage, and she felt Andrea
was the only member of the family who could afford the necessary transactions.
(P.Exh. DD [Deposition of Andrea Brown], 88:9-89:3, 91:23-92:1.)
            Andrea
contacted a real estate agent, Craig Brown, and a notary public, Mia Kemp, who facilitated
Erma’s transfer of the Property from the Trust to Andrea. (See D.Exhs. S-V, EE
[Deposition of Mia Kemp], FF [Deposition of Craig Brown].) On April 25, 2017,
Andrea recorded a grant deed reflecting the transfer. (UMF 13-14.) Andrea
concurrently recorded a deed of trust securing a mortgage of approximately
$325,000.00 from Residential Bancorp, which refinanced Erma’s reverse mortgage.
(D.Exhs. F, G.)
            On
November 25, 2019, Andrea refinanced the Residential Bancorp mortgage with a
$640,000.00 loan from Calculated Risk Analytics, LLC. The deed of trust for
that loan (“the 2019 Deed”) was recorded on December 2, 2019. (UMF 17; D.Exh. I,
J.) Wilmington Savings Fund Society (“Wilmington”) in its capacity as trustee, the
moving party here, is the beneficial holder of the 2019 Deed to the Property
according to a Corporate Assignment of the Deed of Trust recorded on April 19, 2021.
(D.Exh. K.)
            On
August 13, 2020, Plaintiff sued Andrea, Andre, Residential Bancorp, Calculated
Risk Analytics, Mia Kemp, all persons known and unknown with an interest in the
Property, and Does 1 through 30, asserting claims (1) to quiet title, (2)
to establish a resulting trust, (3) to establish a constructive trust, (4-6)
for cancellation of instruments, (7) for negligence by a notary public (Kemp),
and (8) for partition. Plaintiff later added Wilmington by fictitious name
amendment.
            On
March 21, 2022, shortly before Plaintiff amended her complaint to name
Wilmington as defendant, Wilmington filed a complaint in intervention against
Plaintiff and against Andrea Brown. Wilmington asserts causes of action against
Plaintiff for (1) quiet title, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) equitable
subrogation. Its claims against Andrea are not at issue here.
            On
March 2, 2023, Andrea moved for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint. On
July 3, 2023, the Court denied the motion. The Court found Plaintiff raised a
triable issue whether Andrea obtained title to the Property via forgery or
fraud. (See 07-03-2023 Minute Order [Plaintiff met her burden to raise a
triable issue whether Erma’s signature on the grant deed was authentic].)
            On
February 22, 2023, shortly before Andrea filed her motion, Wilmington filed the
instant motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, adjudication of
each cause of action in its complaint, and inversely on several causes of
action in Plaintiff’s complaint.
            On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition.
            On
March 6, 2024, Wilmington replied.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Wilmington’s
Requests
Wilmington
requests judicial notice of eleven documents recorded in the Official Records
of Los Angeles County. The Court grants Wilmington’s request in its entirety
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452.
Plaintiff’s
Requests
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the evidence it submitted in opposition to Andrea’s
March 2023 motion for summary judgment. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request to
establish that various sworn statements were made and evidence authenticated
but does not consider them for their truth.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            Wilmington’s
Objections
Plaintiff
submitted all her evidence as part of her request for judicial notice. Wilmington
attacks the grounds for judicial notice, but it does not object to the
underlying evidence. As discussed above, the Court takes judicial notice of the
existence of the evidence without relying on the truth of that evidence.
Plaintiff’s
Objections
Plaintiff
objects to Wilmington’s Exhibits A-K and S-V, all on the same grounds: that the
exhibits purportedly lack foundation, contain hearsay, and are not properly
authenticated. The Court overrules these objections in their entirety. Exhibits
A through K are subject to judicial notice. Wilmington’s counsel attests
Exhibits S through V were produced by Plaintiff during discovery.
Plaintiff
also objects to the Declaration of Shannon Bush in its entirety and in various
parts. The Court sustains Plaintiff’s individual objections Nos. 9 and 10,
because Bush’s testimony lacks foundation. Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
            “¿[A]
motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.¿” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c)¿¿.) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(¿¿Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850¿¿.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (¿¿Ibid.¿¿)
Courts “¿liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.¿” (¿¿Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389¿¿.) 
 
DISCUSSION  
            Wilmington
moves for summary judgment on its own claims for Quiet Title and Declaratory
Relief, and conversely on Plaintiff’s claims for quiet title and cancellation
of instrument, on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff has no title to the Property,
and (2) Wilmington is a bona fide encumbrancer for value that took title
without notice of Plaintiff’s claims. (MPA, 1:11-14, 1:19-2:2.)
            Wilmington
also moves for summary adjudication of its third cause of action for equitable subrogation
because “pursuant to the refinance and not as a volunteer, the funds from the
Wilmington loan were used to pay off and reconvey prior liens against the
subject property.” (MPA, 1:15-18.)
 
            1.
Title to the Property (Quiet Title, Declaratory Relief, and Cancellation of
Instrument)
                        a.
There is a triable issue whether Andrea Brown obtained title by fraud.
            Plaintiff’s
entire case relies on her threshold allegation that Andrea either fraudulently
induced Erma to deed her the Property or Andrea forged the deed she recorded.
Wilmington argues it has carried its burden to show that no such fraud or
forgery took place, and Plaintiff has raised no triable issue. The Court
disagrees.
The
Court already denied Andrea’s motion for summary judgment on this sole basis. (See 07-03-2023
Minute Order.) Plaintiff adduced evidence sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fraud or forgery. That evidence has been judicially noticed and considered
in support of Plaintiff’s opposition here.
There
is a triable issue whether the deed to the Property was fraudulently obtained
or forged.
 
b. Because there is a triable issue
of fraud, there is a triable issue whether Plaintiff is a real party in
interest as successor-beneficiary to a constructive trust.
Wilmington
also argues Plaintiff is not a real party in interest entitled to sue for title
to the Property, whether or not Andrea fraudulently obtained the deed from Erma.
Specifically,
Wilmington contends “Plaintiff has no basis upon which to claim title to the
Property because the trust documents do not bequeath or transfer any title to
the Property ..., but rather direct[] the trustee upon the settlor’s death to
distribute the trust estate into equal shares to the settlor’s ‘children’ ”.
(MPA, 26:9-18.)
Plaintiff
argues she has raised a triable issue that she has an equitable claim to the
Property, whether or not she has shown she holds legal title. (Opp.,
14:22-15:9.)
In
general, a holder of equitable title to a property may not state a quiet title
claim against the holder of legal title. (See Warren v. Merrill (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 96, 112.) But case law imposes an exception for property
obtained by fraud. (Ibid.) Where a purported legal titleholder obtained title
to a property by fraud, the transfer is ineffective. (Ibid.) The
purported titleholder in fact holds the property in constructive trust for the
victim of its fraud. (Ibid.) 
Here,
Plaintiff has raised a triable issue whether Andrea obtained the Property by
fraud. If Andrea obtained the Property by fraud, then the beneficial interest
in the Property remained with the Trust. And when Erma died, Plaintiff – as one
of Erma’s children – became entitled to a share of that beneficial interest.
Wilmington
repeatedly emphasizes Plaintiff was only entitled to a share of the Trust
property, and only after estate taxes were paid. But Wilmington does not
explain how that intermediate step – dividing the Trust’s property amongst its
beneficiaries – divests Plaintiff of her interest in individual pieces of Trust
property, including the Property at issue.
Plaintiff
raises a triable issue whether she has at least an equitable interest in the
Property, such that she can pursue her claims to quiet title and cancel
instruments as necessary.
 
2. Bona Fide Purchase for Value
(Quiet Title, Declaratory Relief, and 
Cancellation of Instrument)
            Wilmington
also argues it must prevail on its own quiet title action, and Plaintiff’s must
fail, because Wilmington was a bona fide purchaser or encumbrancer for value
without notice of Plaintiff’s purported interest in the Property. 
            “
‘It is “black-letter law” that a bona fide purchaser for value who acquires his
or her interest in real property without knowledge or notice of another’s prior
rights or interest in the property takes the property free of such unknown
interests.’ [Citations.] Conversely, ‘it is an equally well-established
principle of law that any purchaser of real property acquires the property
subject to prior interests of which he or she has actual or constructive
notice.’ [Citation.] ‘Actual notice is defined as “express information of a
fact,” while constructive notice is that “which is imputed by law.” ’
[Citation.]” (Vasquez v. LBS Financial Credit Union (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th
97, 107.)
Whether
construed as an affirmative claim to quiet title or as an affirmative defense
to Plaintiff’s claim, the argument requires Wilmington to establish three
elements as a matter of law: (1) that Wilmington paid value for the Property;
(2) that it did so in good faith; and (3) that it did not have actual or
constructive notice of Plaintiff’s rights when it did so. (See Melendrez v.
D & I Investment, Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1251.)
 
                        a.
Wilmington paid valuable consideration for the Property.
            Wilmington advances the declaration
of Shannon Bush, a paralegal employed by Wilmington’s loan servicer, Shellpoint
Mortgage Servicing. (Bush Decl., ¶ 1.) Bush attests she reviewed Shellpoint’s
database and it reflects that Wilmington’s predecessor-in-interest loaned
Andrea Brown $640,000.00 on November 25, 2019, secured by a deed of trust to
the Property recorded on December 2, 2019. (Id., ¶ 5; D.Exh. J.) 
Ms. Bush’s testimony, accompanied by judicially-notice
deeds, carry Wilmington’s burden to show it obtained its deed of trust for
valuable consideration.
            Plaintiff objects to Wilmington’s
evidence, but those objections have been overruled. She does not otherwise
rebut Wilmington’s showing. Plaintiff raises no triable issue. The first
element of Wilmington’s bona fide purchaser claim/defense is satisfied.
 
b.
Wilmington has not established, beyond a triable issue, that it acquired the
Property in good faith without notice.
            Although Wilmington demonstrates it
purchased the Property for value, it fails to show it did not have notice of
Plaintiff’s claim. In its papers, Wilmington cites several provisions of the
Code of Civil Procedure and a treatise which affirm the rule that an
encumbrancer who pays valuable consideration in good faith and who
records his interest receives his interest free and clear of unrecorded claims unknown
to him. (MPA, 14:5-10.) 
Wilmington has established it paid
valuable consideration and recorded its interest. (It is also undisputed that
Plaintiff’s claim was unrecorded, so Wilmington cannot be ascribed constructive
notice.) But on summary judgment, it is still Wilmington’s burden to also show
that it obtained title to the Property in good faith and without actual
knowledge of Plaintiff’s claim. Wilmington has offered no evidence that
shows as much.
            To support its contention, Wilmington
cites only to a single paragraph of Ms. Bush’s declaration:
“The
Loan Records reflect that Shellpoint and Wilmington had no knowledge of
Plaintiff[’s] ... alleged claims to the Property until January 2022.”
(Bush
Decl., ¶ 10.)
            Plaintiff’s objection to this
paragraph has been sustained. The statement lacks foundation. Ms. Bush does not
explain how the records demonstrate what she claims. She states a conclusion or
lay opinion without attesting to personal knowledge. Even if she did have
personal knowledge or explain her conclusion, her single sentence of testimony,
without more, would not carry Wilmington’s threshold burden on this dispositive
motion.
            Wilmington has not carried its
threshold burden at summary judgment to show that it purchased the Property in
good faith without actual or constructive notice of Plaintiff’s claim. 
 
            3.
Equitable Subrogation
            Equitable
subrogation requires (1) payment by a subrogee to protect personal interests,
(2) that the subrogee did not act as a volunteer, (3) that the subrogee was not
primarily liable for discharged debt, (4) that the entire debt was paid, and,
crucially, (5) that the subrogation does not work an injustice to the rights of
others. (See Caito v. United California
Bank (1978) 20 Cal.3d 694, 704.) 
            Although
Wilmington may have established the first four elements of equitable
subrogation, it has not established the fifth. There is a triable issue whether
Andrea defrauded Erma out of title to the Property, thereby depriving Erma’s
heirs of their interest. If the Court permitted Wilmington to cut off a right
to property taken from Plaintiff by fraud, the result would work an injustice
to Plaintiff’s rights.
            Wilmington
has not shown it is entitled to prevail on its equitable subrogation claim.
 
SANCTIONS
            Wilmington
has also moved for an order striking Plaintiff’s complaint and imposing
monetary sanctions based on Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.
Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7 obligates an attorney or unrepresented party not to make an
argument or statement to the Court unless “(1) It is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose,
such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the
cost of litigation[;] (2) The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new
law[;] (3) The allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary
support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary
support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery[;
and] (4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or,
if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.”
There is no evidence that Plaintiff or her attorney
filed this suit for an improper purpose, and they rely on nonfrivolous legal
theories. Wilmington contends Plaintiff’s complaint is sanctionable because it
lacks evidentiary support.
            In support
of its motion, Wilmington argues that four categories of evidence demonstrate
Plaintiff’s complaint is frivolous: (1) the contracts and recorded documents
that demonstrate Erma’s transfer of the Property to Andrea; (2-3) the
depositions of Ms. Kemp and Mr. Brown, who testify Erma had the capacity to transfer
the Property to Andrea; and (4) Plaintiff’s own deposition, wherein she
expressed confusion about the nature of, and grounds for, this lawsuit.
            Wilmington’s
first three categories are unpersuasive. The Court already found there is a
triable issue whether the alleged fraud occurred, based on Plaintiff’s
substantial evidence that contradicts Wilmington’s contentions.
            As to the
fourth: in opposition to Wilmington’s motion, Plaintiff’s counsel offers
Plaintiff’s entire deposition transcript to contextualize Plaintiff’s
statements. The transcript shows Plaintiff was confused throughout her
deposition. Her sometimes poor understanding of the specifics of her suit do
not demonstrate it was baseless from the outset.
 
CONCLUSION
            Based on the
foregoing, the court DENIES the Intervenor-Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment and DENIES its motion for sanctions.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.