  Case Number:  23STCV10915    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BENJAMIN DADBIN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
PALAZZO WEST, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV10915
  Hearing Date:  October 30, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff Benjamin
Dadbin filed this action against Defendants Palazzo West; LA Park La Brea A,
LLC; OP Property Management, LP; Chase Sherbert; Enio Castellanos; and Elijah
Doe. The complaint stems from injuries Plaintiff sustained as the result of an
alleged bedbug infestation at an apartment owned or operated by Defendants. 
            On September 20, 2024, Defendants LA
Park La Brea A, LLC and OP Property Management, LP filed the instant demurrer
and motion to strike. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 16, 2024.
Defendants filed their reply on October 23, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Aslanyan Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Battery
The elements of a cause of action for
battery are: (1) the defendant touched the plaintiff, or caused the plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend the plaintiff; (2) the
plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) the plaintiff was harmed or
offended by the defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in the
plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching. (Carlsen v.
Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.)
            Here, Plaintiff’s claim stems from
Defendant’s alleged failure to remediate a bedbug infestation. This cannot form
the basis of a battery claim, which requires an affirmative act, not mere
omission. Plaintiff cites a nonbinding federal case analyzing Illinois law for
the contention that a bed bug infestation can constitute battery. (See Mathias
v. Accord Econ. Lodging, Inc., 347 F.3d 672 (7th Cir. III.2003).) However,
the Mathias decision is not based on California law and is not on point.
Mathias focused on punitive damages and did not discuss the elements of
battery or how a bed bug infestation satisfies those elements. 
Plaintiff cites no authority suggesting
that a bedbug infestation constitutes battery just because the landlord knew of
an infestation prior to renting the unit. (See Compl. ¶ 59.) Even if that was
intentional, it was still an omission (failure to disclose), not an affirmative
act. Additionally, it would not constitute unwanted contact between one person
and another. Renting out an insect-infested apartment is not analogous to
throwing water on someone. (See Mount Vernon Fire Ins. Co. v. Busby
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 876, 881 [describing battery by indirect contact].)   
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the
first cause of action. 
            b. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
To state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must
establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real
Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) 
“For conduct to
be outrageous, it must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated by a civilized community.” (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 166, 172.) “Severe
emotional distress [is] emotional distress of such substantial quantity or
enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to endure it.” (Fletcher v. Western Life Insurance Co. (1970)
10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) A landlord’s willful failure to correct
defective conditions can constitute intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1069.) 
Here, the allegations show that Defendants
knew of a bedbug infestation but failed to take adequate remedial actions. The
facts show that Defendants employed an exterminator multiple times, but the
treatment was ineffective. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants executed
chemical treatments when Plaintiff preferred heat treatments, and improperly
charged Plaintiff for some of the treatments. Plaintiff eventually moved out
because the infestation was not eradicated. As a matter of law, these facts do
not amount to the outrageous conduct necessary for IIED.   
Plaintiff also fails to allege severe
emotional distress. The conclusory allegation that “Plaintiff suffered severe
emotional distress that has caused Plaintiff to sustain severe, serious and
permanent injuries to their person” is insufficient. (See Compl. ¶ 95.) 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the third
cause of action.
c. Unfair Competition Law
Business and Professions Code section
17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices.
Each of the three prongs is an independent basis for relief. (Smith v. State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 718.)
Unlawful conduct is defined as any practice forbidden by law. (Farmers Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) UCL actions alleging
unlawful conduct “borrow” from other statutes or common law causes of action
outside Section 17200. (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.)
Here, Defendants do not challenge the
sufficiency of Plaintiff’s claims for negligence, violation of Civil Code
sections 1941 and 1941.1, breach of the warranty of habitability, breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment, breach of contract, and private nuisance. These
alleged breaches and violations constitute “unlawful” conduct that serves as
the predicate for a UCL claim. The complaint contains sufficient facts for
pleading purposes, and factual ambiguities or conflicts should be addressed in
discovery. 
Defendants also correctly point out that
damages are not recoverable under the UCL. However, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants made “unlawful demands and collections of monies from Plaintiff.”
(Compl. ¶ 139.) For example, Defendants collected rent from Plaintiff and
charged Plaintiff for certain extermination treatments. Plaintiff’s failure to
allege a precise amount does not render the complaint defective. Whether
Defendants took any money from Plaintiff that may be the subject of
restitution, and the corresponding amount, are factual matters unsuited for
resolution on a demurrer. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the sixth
cause of action.
d. Civil Code Section 1941.3
Civil Code section 1941.3 governs a
landlord’s obligations with regards to doors and windows. Plaintiff concedes
that he mistakenly alleged section 1941.3 and requests leave to amend to add a
cause of action under section 1942.3. However, section 1942.3 does not give
rise to a cause of action. That section merely governs the standard of proof “[i]n
any unlawful detainer action by the landlord.” (Civ. Code, § 1942.3(a).) 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the eighth
cause of action.
 
 
e. Civil Code Section 1942.4
A violation of Civil Code section 1942.4
does not occur unless four conditions are met, one of which is “[a] public
officer or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law,
after inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s
agent in writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the
substandard conditions.” (Civ. Code, § 1942.4(a)(2).) 
The complaint fails to allege that a
public officer or employee responsible for housing law enforcement notified the
landlord in writing of the nuisance. Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address
this defect. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the ninth
cause of action.
f. Public Nuisance
A nuisance is “[a]nything which is
injurious to health” (Civ. Code, § 3479), and a “public nuisance is one which
affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any
considerable number of persons” (id., § 3480). To prevail on a public
nuisance claim, Plaintiff must show “that a defendant knowingly created or
assisted in the creation of a substantial and unreasonable interference with a
public right.” (People v. ConAgra Grocery Prods. Co. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 51, 79.)
The nature of the allegations makes clear
that this is a private dispute between landlord and tenant. Plaintiff does not
point to any allegations demonstrating that the bedbug infestation affected a
substantial number of persons or the public at large such that it could be
considered a public nuisance. Plaintiff simply concludes without authority or
explanation that the bedbug infestation should be likened to a smallpox
epidemic. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the
thirteenth cause of action. 
 
 
II.
Motion to Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
Here, the
complaint alleges that Defendants rented a unit to Plaintiff knowing of a
bedbug infestation on the premises and intentionally concealed the defect from
Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶ 59.) Furthermore, Defendants allegedly failed to properly
train their employees on maintenance and sanitation and turned a blind eye to
previous complaints of infestations. (Id., ¶ 86.) For pleading purposes,
these facts sufficiently demonstrate a conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s
rights and safety, as well as conduct that subjected Plaintiff to unjust
hardship. 
The motion to
strike is DENIED as to punitive damages
b.
Attorney’s Fees
“Except as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) Therefore, a plaintiff must
allege either a statutory or contractual basis for attorneys’ fees. 
Here, Plaintiff
has not pled a statutory or contractual basis for attorney’s fees. The only
possible statutory basis would have been the ninth cause of action for Civil
Code section 1942.4, but as discussed above, that cause of action fails.
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address attorney’s fees. 
The motion to
strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s fees.
CONCLUSION
            Defendants
LA
Park La Brea A, LLC’s and OP Property Management, LP’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in
part as set forth above without leave to amend. Defendants’ motion to strike is
GRANTED without leave to amend as to attorney’s fees and DENIED as to punitive
damages. 