 Case Number:  24STCV04556    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HECTOR ALMAZAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
VISTA DEL MAR CHILD AND FAMILY SERVICES,
  INC., 
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  24STCV04556
  Hearing Date:  October 30, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants' motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff
Hector Almazan filed this action for employment discrimination and wage
violations against Defendants Vista Del Mar Child and Family Services, Inc.;
People Systems Child Family Therapy, Inc.; and Mark Walker. 
            On September 12, 2024, Defendants
Vista Del Mar Child and Family Services, Inc. and Mark Walker filed the instant
motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 17,
2024. Defendants filed their reply on October 23, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) states
that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a transaction
involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) The term “involving commerce” is
interpreted to mean simply “affecting commerce” to give the FAA the broadest
reach possible, and does not require a transaction that is actually “within the
flow of interstate commerce.” (See Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 273-74; Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S.
52, 56.) Moreover, parties may agree to apply the FAA notwithstanding any
effect on interstate commerce. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled.

Defendants’
Objections

Defendants’ objections to the
     Declaration of Hector Almazan are overruled.
Defendants’ objections to the
     Declaration of Christopher DeClue are overruled.

DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)
            On June 4, 2021, Plaintiff
hand-signed a “Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate” stating the following: 
 
“Both Employer and
Employee voluntarily agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy of any
kind between Employee and Employer (or its owners, directors, officers,
employees, agents, related and affiliated entities, and parties affiliated with
its employee benefit and health plans unless such plans provide a different
arbitration procedure), including but not limited to claims or controversies
arising out of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer, past,
present, or future, or its termination, shall be subject to final and binding
arbitration.” 
(McDonald
Decl., Ex. A.)  
            Plaintiff does not dispute the
existence of the agreement, its terms, or his signature on it. Plaintiff argues
that the agreement was not properly authenticated. However, “[f]or purposes of
a petition to compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal
procedures of document authentication.” (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) “The statute does not require the petitioner
to introduce the agreement into evidence. A plain reading of the statute
indicates that as a preliminary matter the court is only required to make a
finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its
validity.” (Id. at p. 219.) Because Plaintiff does not challenge the
existence of the agreement, the Court finds that an agreement to arbitrate
exists regardless of whether the specific document presented by Defendants has
been authenticated. 
            Furthermore, the document is
properly introduced through the declaration of Cassandra McDonald, Defendant
Vista Del Mar’s human resources director. (McDonald Decl. ¶ 2.) “[T]he
custodian of a document need not have been present or employed when the
document was created or signed to authenticate a document in a company's
files.” (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 758.)
“[A]ny qualified witness knowledgeable about documents may lay
foundation for business records.” (Id. at p. 759.) There is “no
strict requirement as to how a party authenticates a writing.” (Ibid.)
Ms. McDonald has demonstrated sufficient knowledge of Defendant’s onboarding
and document procedures to lay foundation for the document. (See McDonald Decl.
¶¶ 3-7.)
            Plaintiff states that he does not
“remember” signing the arbitration agreement. (Almazar Decl. ¶ 12.) However, “[i]f a party confronted with his or her
handwritten signature on an arbitration agreement is unable to allege that the
signature is inauthentic or forged, the fact that that person does not recall
signing the agreement neither creates a factual dispute as to the signature's
authenticity nor affords an independent basis to find that a contract was not
formed.” (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 758.) Again, Plaintiff does
not dispute that the agreement exists and that his signature is on it. Thus,
Plaintiff’s failure to recall the agreement is irrelevant.     
            In sum, Defendants have satisfied
their burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement. 
II.
Claims Against Defendant Walker
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant
Walker has no standing to compel arbitration because Walker did not sign the
agreement. “Enforcement is permitted where the nonsignatory is the agent for a
party to the arbitration agreement, or the nonsignatory is a third party
beneficiary of the agreement.” (Fuentes v. TMCSF, Inc. (2018) 26
Cal.App.5th 541, 547.) 
Here, the agreement states that it applies
to Vista Del Mar’s “owners, directors, officers, employees, [and] agents.”
(McDonald Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff alleges that Walker is an employee and agent
of Vista Del Mar. (See Compl. ¶¶ 6, 28.) Therefore, Walker is entitled to
enforce the agreement as an agent and third-party beneficiary. 
III.
Unconscionability 
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
            1.
Contract of Adhesion
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because he had to sign it as a condition of
employment. (See Almazar Decl. ¶¶ 7, 15.) However, the agreement plainly states
that it is voluntary. (McDonald Decl., Ex. A.) Moreover, the adhesive nature of
a contract represents only a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. (Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)
“[A] compulsory predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable
just because it is required as a condition of employment.” (Lagatree v.
Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127.)  
            2.
Surprise 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
surprising because he was not informed that he was waiving his jury rights.
(See Almazar Decl. ¶ 10.) However, the agreement plainly states, in all caps
and in bold: “BY VOLUNTARILY AGREEING TO THIS ARBITRATION AGREEMENT, EMPLOYER
AND EMPLOYEE BOTH GIVE UP THEIR RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY.” (McDonald Decl., Ex.
A.) “[O]ne who signs an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to
assent to all its terms.” (Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco
Contracting & Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.)
Again, Plaintiff does not dispute his signature on the agreement. Defendant had
no affirmative obligation to explain the agreement to Plaintiff. (See Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674 [“No law requires that
parties dealing at arm's length have a duty to explain to each other the terms
of a written contract”].) Plaintiff has no evidence that he tried to ask
questions, that Defendant refused to answer his questions, or that Defendant
prohibited him from taking more time or seeking assistance to review the
agreement.   
Plaintiff also argues that the agreement
is surprising because he did not know he would have to arbitrate claims against
Walker. However, as discussed above, the agreement on its face covers claims
with Vista Del Mar’s employees and agents, which includes Walker. Thus, the
agreement is not surprising. A contract does not become surprising merely
because a party failed to read it prior to signing or forgot about its terms. “Reasonable
diligence requires the reading of a contract before signing it. A party cannot
use his own lack of diligence to avoid an arbitration agreement.” (Brookwood,
supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at p. 1674.)  
            3.
Arbitration Rules
Plaintiff argues that the agreement fails
to inform him of the applicable arbitration rules. However, “the failure to
attach the [arbitration] rules, standing alone, is insufficient grounds to
support a finding of procedural unconscionability.” (Peng v. First Republic
Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) The agreement states that
arbitration will proceed under “JAMS’ Employment Arbitration Rules and
Procedures.” (McDonald Decl., Ex. A.) The agreement further informs Plaintiff
that the rules may be obtained from HR and also provides a website link to the
rules. Thus, the agreement sufficiently provided for access to JAMS rules.
In sum, the Court finds no procedural
unconscionability.  
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)  
            1.
Fees Unique to Arbitration
For an arbitration agreement to be valid,
the employer must bear all costs unique to arbitration. (Armendariz v.
Foundational Health Psychcare Servs. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 111-12.) Here,
the agreement provides that “Employer will pay the reasonable and necessary
fees and expenses of the Arbitrator, and all other types of expenses that
Employee would not be required to pay in a court action.” (McDonald Decl., Ex.
A.) Thus, the agreement clearly requires Defendant to bear the costs unique to
arbitration. 
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement “may” require him to pay all filing fees without the
possibility of a fee waiver. However, Plaintiff provides no evidence that he
would be prevented from seeking a fee waiver in arbitration. Nor does Plaintiff
cite any authority suggesting that the availability of a fee waiver affects the
enforceability of an arbitration agreement. 
Plaintiff also argues that he would have
to pay an additional filing fee for arbitration after he already paid a filing
fee in court. However, the agreement never required Plaintiff to pay filing
fees in both court and arbitration. Plaintiff’s payment of the court filing fee
is a result of Plaintiff’s own decision to file a lawsuit in contravention of
the arbitration agreement. Plaintiff cites no authority suggesting that this
renders the arbitration agreement unconscionable. 
                        2. Minimal
Discovery
            “[A]rbitration is meant to be a
streamlined procedure. Limitations on discovery . . . is one of the ways
streamlining is achieved.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
975, 983.) Therefore, an arbitration agreement is only required to “provide[]
for more than minimal discovery.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) 
            Plaintiff argues that the JAMS rules
provide for only one deposition, which is insufficient. However, the rules allow
for “at least one” deposition; they do not impose a limit of one deposition.
(See JAMS Rule 17(b).) Plaintiff cites no authority holding that JAMS’
discovery rules are unconscionable. 
                        3. Attorney’s Fees
            Plaintiff argues that the agreement
requires him to bear his own attorney’s fees in contravention of his right to
recover attorney’s fees under FEHA. The agreement does no such thing. Instead,
the agreement provides that “[u]nless the parties agree otherwise or unless a
party prevails on a claim for which attorneys' fees and/or costs may be awarded
to the prevailing party under applicable law and the Arbitrator awards fees
and/or costs, each party will pay its own attorneys' fees and expenses
associated with the arbitration.” (McDonald Decl., Ex. A.) Thus, the agreement
expressly allows Plaintiff to recover attorney’s fees if he prevails on a
claim, such as FEHA, that provides for an award of attorney’s fees.   
            In sum, the Court finds no
substantive unconscionability. With a no procedural unconscionability and no
substantive unconscionability, the agreement remains enforceable. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants Vista Del Mar Child and
Family Services, Inc.’s and Mark Walker’s motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome of arbitration.
      