  Case Number:  23STCV11918    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jose Maria Garcia, Jr.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV11918




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 6, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Moving Party: Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Jose Maria Garcia, Jr.
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action arising out
of Plaintiff’s lease of a 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQS manufactured and distributed by
Defendant Mercedes. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration provision in the lease agreement executed by Plaintiff
on June 4, 2022. (Decl. Ameripour, Exh. 2.) The agreement provides, in
pertinent part, “Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort
or otherwise (including any dispute over the interpretation, scope, or validity
of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of any issue), between
you and us or any of our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises
out of or relates to a credit application, this lease, or any resulting
transaction or relationship arising out of this lease shall, at the election of
either you or us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by a neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action. Any claim or dispute is to be
arbitrated on an individual basis and not as a class action.” (Id.) Defendant is a non-signatory
to the agreement.
 
B. Non-Signatory
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
under the doctrine of equitable estoppel, relying on the Third District Court
of Appeal opinion in Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
489. In Felisilda, the plaintiffs purchased a vehicle and signed a sales
contract, which provided in pertinent part, “Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to ... condition of this vehicle,
this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any
such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall,
at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by
a court action.” (Id. at 490, emphasis in original.)
 
The plaintiffs sued FCA and the
dealership and the dealership moved to compel all parties to arbitration based
on the sales agreement. The plaintiffs argued that they could not be compelled
to arbitrate their claims against non-signatory FCA. The Court of Appeal
rejected this argument, finding that FCA could compel arbitration under
equitable estoppel, which allows a non-signatory to enforce an arbitration
agreement when “the causes of action against the non-signatory are ‘intimately
founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Id.
at 495; quoting JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236-1237.) Citing the arbitration provisions above, the
Court explained, “[t]he Felisildas’ claim against FCA directly relates to the
condition of the vehicle that they allege to have violated warranties they
received as a consequence of the sales contract. Because the Felisildas
expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they
are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against FCA.” (Id.
at 497.)
 
On April 4, 2023, the Second District
Court of Appeal issued an opinion in five actions titled Ford Motor Warranty
Cases (Ochoa v. Ford) 2023 WL 2768484. The facts in Ford mirror
those in this action and those in Felisilda. The Second District
declined to follow Felisilda, instead finding equitable estoppel does
not apply because the plaintiffs’ claims are not founded or intertwined with
the RISC and because Ford is not a third-party beneficiary of the RISC. (Id.)
 
This Court finds the reasoning in Ford
persuasive and will follow it. Defendant is not entitled to compel arbitration
under the lease.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 