 Case Number:  23STCV16733    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Blair Carlton,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV16733




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Benyamin Aghachi, 


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 6, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Strike 
Moving Party: Defendant Carmax Benyamin Aghachi
Responding Party: Plaintiff Blair Carlton
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts showing
fraud, malice, or oppression. This is a landlord-tenant action. Plaintiff
alleges he leased a unit from Defendant. Plaintiff alleges the unit was
infested with insects and rodents and did not have adequate plumbing or hot
water. Plaintiff alleges that when Defendant was informed of these issues,
Defendant failed to remedy them and instead cut off utilities to Plaintiff’s
unit, made racist comments to Plaintiff, locked him out the unit, and
threatened to have his dog taken away. This is sufficient at the pleadings
stage to establish entitlement to punitive damages.  
 
Defendant’s motion is DENIED.


 