 Case Number:  23STCV21078    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On August
31, 2024, Plaintiff Lina Gonzales (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Ashley Tisdale and Does 1-50 for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
December 29, 2023, the Court granted the motion to strike filed by Defendant
Ashley French (erroneously sued as Ashley Tisdale) (“Defendant”) and struck the
phrase “Loss of society, love, protection, companionship, consortium, and other
related injuries and damages” from the complaint. 
On
February 5, 2024, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
September 17, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for a protective order re: public
disclosure of deposition testimony.  The
motion was set for hearing on November 6, 2024. 
On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  On October 30, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 27, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to issue a protective order (1) to prevent the disclosure of Defendant’s
deposition testimony and video to any third party not affiliated with this
litigation, specifically media outlets and tabloids and (2) to restrict the use
of Defendant’s deposition testimony and video for any purpose other than in
connection with this lawsuit. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in
part: 
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective
order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following
directions: 
* * *

 “(5) That the deposition be taken only on certain
specified terms and conditions. 
* * *
 “(g) If the motion for a protective order is denied in
whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent provide or permit the
discovery against which protection was sought on those terms and conditions
that are just. 
“(h) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subds. (a), (b)(5), (g), (h).) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
asks the Court to issue a protective order (1) to prevent the disclosure of
Defendant’s deposition testimony and video to any third party not affiliated
with this litigation, specifically media outlets and tabloids and (2) to
restrict the use of Defendant’s deposition testimony and video for any purpose
other than in connection with this lawsuit. 
Defendant is a well-known actress and singer and is routinely subject to
media and tabloid coverage.  Celebrity
tabloids have already published articles about this case. 
According
to Defendant, Plaintiff and/or her counsel have made comments to celebrity
tabloid TMZ.  In addition, Defendant
contends, after the auto collision, Plaintiff created and published multiple
videos on a social media platform which revealed information about Defendant’s
driver’s license and license plate. 
Although Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a proposed
protective order to maintain the confidentiality of Defendant’s deposition,
Plaintiff has refused to meet and confer about the protective order. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that a protective order would limit her
right to conduct discovery.  But
Plaintiff fails to show how an order preventing the parties, counsel, and witnesses from disseminating Defendant's deposition testimony and video to third parties or using them for purposes unrelated to this
litigation would restrict Plaintiff’s ability to conduct discovery. 
Plaintiff
also argues that she has no intention of releasing discovery materials to third
parties.  Yet Plaintiff admits that,
after the accident, she “took to social media to post about the accident” and
posted photographs from the accident showing damage to the vehicles.  (Opposition p. 3.)  And Plaintiff does not deny that she previously
published information about Defendant on a social media platform or that she
and/or Plaintiff’s counsel have made comments to celebrity tabloid TMZ. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants Defendant’s request for a protective order.  The Court (1) prohibits disclosure of
Defendant’s deposition testimony and video to any third party not affiliated
with this litigation, specifically media outlets and tabloids and (2) prohibits
the use of Defendant’s deposition testimony and video for any purpose except
this lawsuit.
CONCLUSION 
The Court
GRANTS the motion of Defendant Ashley French (erroneously sued as Ashley
Tisdale) for a protective order.  The
Court (1) prohibits disclosure of Defendant’s deposition testimony and video to
any third party not affiliated with this litigation, specifically media outlets
and tabloids and (2) prohibits the use of Defendant’s deposition testimony and
video for any purpose except this lawsuit.  The prohibitions apply to the parties, counsel, witnesses, consultants, and their employees and agents.  
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.