  Case Number:  21STCV43026    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Case no. 21STCV43026  On  November 22, 2021, Plaintiff Marius Spada (“Spada”) filed an action against  Defendants Cal-West Fire Protection Specialist  (“Cal-West”), J.R. Lennen Construction, Inc. (“JR”), Blink Fitness (“BF”),  Blink Holdings, Inc. (“BH”), Blink 16123 Bellflower Blvd., Inc. (“BBB”), and  Shadrall Bellflower, LP (“SB”) for premises liability and general negligence.  Plaintiff later amended the complaint to include Defendants Auburndale  Properties, L.L.C. (“AP LLC”), Auburndale Properties, Inc. (“AP Inc.”), Aldi  Foods Inc. (“AF”), Aldi Inc. (“Aldi”), and Al California LLC (“Al”).  (Case no. 21STCV43026.)  On  January 28, 2022, BBB and Cal-West filed answers.  On  February 18, 2022, SB filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Roes 101-150 for breach of contract, express indemnification,  implied indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity and  declaratory relief.  On  March 21, 2022, JR filed an answer.  On  September 12, 2022, AF, Aldi and Al filed an answer and a cross-complaint  against Cross-Defendants BF, BH, BBB, Cal-West and JR for breach of contract,  breach of contract to provide insurance, express indemnity, implied equitable  indemnity, contribution, negligence and declaratory relief.  On  October 14, 2022, BBB, Cal-West and JR filed an answer.  On  June 7, 2022, AP Inc. and AP LLC filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Moes 101-150 for breach of contract, express indemnification,  implied indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity and  declaratory relief.  B.   Case no. 22STCV13852  On  April 26, 2022, Plaintiff Lillie James (“James”) filed an action against  Defendants Cal-West, JR, BF, BH, BBB, SB, AP Inc. and AP LLC for general  negligence (loss of consortium) and premises liability (loss of consortium).  (Case no. 22STCV13852.)  On  June 30, 2022, Cal-West, BBB and JR filed answers.  On  July 15, 2022, SB, AP Inc. and AP LLC filed an answer.  C.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases  On  June 27, 2022, the Court found that case numbers 21STCV43026 and 22STCV13852  are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  On  July 28, 2022, the Court consolidated the cases for all purposes.  D.   Post-consolidation proceedings  On  August 30, 2023, the Court granted Compwest Insurance Company's motion for  leave to file a complaint-in-intervention. On August 31, 2023,  Plaintiff-in-Intervention Compwest Insurance Company (“Compwest”) filed a complaint-in-intervention against Defendants  Cal-West, JR, BF, BH, BBB, SB, and Does 1-20 for general negligence, premises  liability, and Labor Code section 3852.  On  October 9, 2023, Cal-West, JR, BF, BH, BBB, and SB filed an answer to  Compwest’s complaint-in-intervention.  On  March 18, 19, and 28, 2024, the Court dismissed BBB, BH, BF, SB, Aldi, and AF  with prejudice from Spada’s and James’s complaints at their request.  On  March 22, 2024, the Court dismissed BF, BH, BBB, and SB with prejudice from  Compwest’s complaint-in-intervention at its request. Trial is currently scheduled for January 23, 2025. E.   Motion to compel neuropsychological examination  On August  21, 2024, the Court denied without prejudice the motion for leave to conduct Spada’s  neuropsychological examination filed by Cal-West and J.R.  On  September 17, 2024, Cal-West and JR (“Moving Defendants”) filed another motion  to compel Spada’s neuropsychological examination. The motion was set for  hearing on November 6, 2024. On October 24, 2024, Spada filed an opposition. On  October 30, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.  F.   Motion to be relieved as counsel   On September 18, 2024, Richard Barone and Rose, Klein & Marias LLP filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The motion was set for hearing on November 6, 2024. PARTIES’ AND COUNSEL'S REQUESTS  A.   Motion to compel neuropsychological examination Moving  Defendants ask the Court to compel Spada to appear for a neuropsychological  examination on November 11 and 12, 2024 with Kyle Boone, Ph.D., a clinical  neuropsychologist, and to impose sanctions on Spada.  Spada  asks the Court to deny the motion.   B.   Motion to be relieved as counselRichard Barone and Rose, Klein & Marias LLP ask to be relieved as Spada's counsel. LEGAL STANDARD A.   Motion to compel neuropsychological examination  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides:  “(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a  physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with  Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of  court.  “(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)  shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the  examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person  or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by  a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the  person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2032.310.)            Code of  Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part:  “(a) The  court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section  2032.310 only for good cause shown.  * * *  “(d) An order  granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons  who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions,  scope, and nature of the examination.  “(e) If the  place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person  to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the  following conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The  court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved.  “(2) The  order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable  expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d), (e).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020, subdivision  (a), provides:  “The court  shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense,  or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the  information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court  may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a  party or other affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)  B.   Motion to be relieved as counsel Code  of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: “The attorney in an action or special proceeding may  be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as  follows: 1.   “Upon the  consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the  minutes; 2.   “Upon the  order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after  notice from one to the other.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: “(a) Notice “A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as  counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the  client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as  Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). “(b) Memorandum “Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no  memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as  counsel. “(c) Declaration “The motion to be relieved as counsel must be  accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion  to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in  general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the  attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section  284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure  section 284(1). “(d) Service “The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and  the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who  have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic  service, or mail. “(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail  under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a  declaration stating facts showing that either: “(A) The service address is the current residence or  business address of the client; or “(B) The service address is the last known residence  or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a  more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days  before the filing of the motion to be relieved. “(2) If the notice is served on the client by  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,  it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service  address is the client's current electronic service address. “As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the  address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be  relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last  known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message  was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is  current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)  applies. “(e) Order “The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared  on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form  MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order  must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including  the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the  court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,  a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that  have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order  relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the  client has been filed with the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1362.)   DISCUSSION I.  Motion to compel Plaintiff's neuropsychological examination   A.   Good cause for examination  Spada  contends that, as a result of the accident giving rise to this case, he suffers  from a traumatic brain injury and related symptoms. On June 25, 2024, Spada  appeared for a neuropsychological independent medical examination with Dr.  Boone at his office in Torrance, California. After about 45 minutes, Spada  became agitated and ended the examination.  Moving  Defendants contend that good cause exists to compel Spada to complete the  examination under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 because Spada’s  medical condition is a key aspect of the litigation.  In  response, Spada argues that he is “medically unable” to participate in an  independent medical examination.  To  support his argument, Spada points to his behavior at the June 25, 2024  neuropsychological examination.  In  addition, Spada has submitted the August 12, 2024 declaration of Edgar O.  Angelone, Ph.D., who conducted a forensic neuropsychological examination of  Spada on May 7 and 8, 2024. In the declaration, Dr. Angelone expresses his  “professional opinion that the patient does not have the ability or capacity to  stand an evaluation of any length of time.”  Citing  Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020, subdivision (a), Spada asserts  that the burden of submitting to an examination would outweigh any likelihood  that the examination would lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Spada  suggests that Moving Defendants instead rely on Spada’s medical records.  In  their reply, Moving Defendants ask the Court to disregard Dr. Angelone’s  opinion because Dr. Angelone succeeded in conducting an evaluation despite  Spada’s behavioral issues. According to Moving Defendants, “even a contentious  evaluation will yield certain medical findings.”  (Reply p. 7.)  Having  considered the parties’ arguments, the Court finds good cause to require Spada  to complete his neuropsychological examination with Dr. Boone.  B.   Spada’s residence  Citing  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220, Spada asserts that traveling to  Southern California for an examination would be “an undue burden on Plaintiff  given his condition, his present residence in Oakland, [California,] and his  present lack of necessary medication.”   (Opposition p. 5.)  Spada supports  this assertion only with his attorney’s declaration.  (Barone dec. ¶ 10.)  Spada’s attorney states that his office “is  presently taking steps to secure the medication that [Spada] may need.” (Barone  dec. ¶ 9.)  In  response, Moving Defendants argue that (1) Spada mentioned places of residence other  than Oakland, California in his discovery responses and at his deposition, (2) Spada  did not raise this issue before attending the June 25, 2024 examination with  Dr. Boone, and (3) Spada provides no evidence to support his contention that  traveling to Southern California would be an undue burden.  As  Spada acknowledges, Moving Defendants are seeking leave to conduct an examination  under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310.   (See Opposition pp. 5-6.)  Therefore, Code of Civil  Procedure section 2032.220 – which Spada cites – does not apply here.  Instead, the Court applies Code of  Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (e), which authorizes the Court  to order a person to submit to an examination more than 75 miles from his or  her residence if “(1) The court determines that there is good cause for the  travel involved” and “(2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by the  moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to  the place of examination.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (e).)  Having  reviewed the parties’ contentions, the Court finds that, if Spada resides more than 75 miles from the place of examination, there is good cause for  an order requiring Spada to travel to Southern California for the remainder of  his examination with Dr. Boone.  This  order is conditioned on Moving Defendants advancing the reasonable expenses and  costs to Spada for travel to the place of examination.  C.   Time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of  the examination  Spada  argues that Moving Defendants “have not specified ‘the time, place, manner,  conditions, scope, and nature of the examination” for purposes of Code of Civil  Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b).  In  their motion, Moving Defendants state that the examination will take up to six  hours.  It is scheduled to take place on  November 11, 2024 and/or November 12, 2024, if necessary.   In the first part of the examination, Dr.  Boone will take a history and observe Spada.   In the second part of the examination, Dr. Boone will administer “standard,  validated psychological and neuropsychological tests” including some or all of  those listed in Moving Defendants’ motion.   (See Motion pp. 6-7 [listing tests].)  The notice of Spada's previous examination with Dr. Boone, which lists Dr. Boone's address, is attached to Moving Defendants' motion.  The  Court finds that Moving Defendants have satisfied the requirements of Code of  Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b).            The Court grants the motion to compel Spada to complete his  examination by Dr. Spada, conditioned on Moving Defendants advancing the reasonable expenses and costs to Spada for travel to the place of examination if Spada's residence is more than 75 miles away.   D.   Audio recording  Moving  Defendants contend that “Plaintiff may audio-record the interview [portion of  the examination], but only Dr. Boone will audio-record the testing portion of  the examination and she will subsequently convey the audio-recording directly  to Plaintiff’s retained licensed psychologist expert only, in order to ensure  compliance with position papers issued by neuropsychological organizations  which prohibit the release of certain protected psychological test information  to non-psychologists.”  (Motion p. 7.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), provides that “The  examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by  audio technology.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.530, subd. (a).)  “[S]ince section  2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee the right to record a mental  examination by audio technology, it implies the examinee may retain a copy of  the audio recording.”  (Randy's  Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837.)  The  statute’s plain language allows Plaintiff to use audio technology to record the  examination without imposing any limitations.   Moving Defendants cite no legal authority that would allow the Court to  limit Spada’s rights under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530,  subdivision (a), for the reasons Moving Defendants give.  The  Court orders that Spada may record all portions of the neuropsychological examination by  audio technology.  (See L. Edmon & C.  Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶  8:1595, p.8I-25 [“Both the examiner and the examinee have the right to record  the entire examination by audio (but not video) technology”].)  The parties may submit a stipulated  protective order restricting the dissemination of information contained in the  audio recording for the Court’s approval.  E.   Raw data  Moving  Defendants also assert that, “for . . . test security and protection reasons,  copies of the psychological test data sheets used to document Plaintiff’s test  performance can only be forwarded to plaintiff’s retained, licensed  psychologist expert.”  (Motion p. 7.)  Spada  does not address this issue and Moving Defendants have not asked the Court to rule on it.  Therefore, the Court does not rule on the  issue.  F.    Sanctions  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.310 and 2032.320, which provide the legal basis for Moving Defendants' motion, do not contain monetary sanctions provisions.  However, citing Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) – one of “the general provisions  of the Civil Discovery Act concerning discovery sanctions” (City of Los  Angeles v. Pricewaterhousecoopers, LLP  (2024) 17 Cal.5th 46, 50 (Pricewaterhousecoopers) – Moving Defendants ask  the Court to impose $3,000.00 in monetary sanctions on Spada based on Spada’s  refusal to complete the examination with Dr. Boone.  In Pricewaterhousecoopers, the Supreme Court held:  “A court may invoke its independent authority to impose sanctions under  sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 only when confronted with an unusual form of  discovery abuse, or a pattern of abuse, not already addressed by a relevant  sanctions provision.”  (Pricewaterhousecoopers,  supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 74.)  Plaintiff’s  refusal to complete his examination with Dr. Boone is not “an unusual form of  discovery abuse, or a pattern of abuse” (see Pricewaterhousecoopers, supra,  17 Cal.5th at p. 74) supporting an award of monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030.  The Court denies Moving Defendants’ request  for monetary sanctions.   G.    Moving Defendants' evidentiary objections   The Court overrules Moving Defendants' evidentiary objections. H. Conclusion: Motion to compel neuropsychological examination The  Court GRANTS in part the motion for leave to complete Plaintiff Marius Spada’s neuropsychological  independent medical examination filed by Defendants Cal-West Fire Protection  Specialist and J.R. Lennen Construction, Inc. on September 17, 2024.  The Court orders Plaintiff Marius Spada to  attend the remaining portion of his neuropsychological independent medical  examination with Kyle Boone, Ph.D., a clinical neuropsychologist, on November  11, 2024 and/or November 12, 2024 (or another date or dates to which the  parties agree) at 24564 Hawthorne Blvd., Suite 208 Hillside Village, Building B  Torrance, CA 90505.  If Plaintiff Marius  Spada resides more than 75 miles from the examination location, the Court’s  order is conditioned on the advancement by Defendants  Cal-West Fire Protection Specialist and J.R. Lennen Construction, Inc. of the  reasonable expenses and costs to Plaintiff Marius Spada for travel to the place  of examination.  Plaintiff Marius Spada  may record the entire examination by audio technology.  The  Court DENIES Defendants Cal-West Fire Protection Specialist’s and J.R. Lennen  Construction, Inc.’s request for monetary sanctions.  Dr.  Boone may conduct only the following tests:  •  Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale – III or IV •  California Verbal Learning Test – II •  DotCounting Test •  MMSE •  Brief Visualspatial Memory Test – Revised •  Trailmaking •  Finger Tapping •  Finger Agnosia • B  Test; Wide Range Achievement Test – IV •  Word Memory Test; Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test •  Wechsler Memory Scale – III or IV •  Portland Digit Memory Test; Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure •  Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM) •  Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory – 3; Stroop Test •  Warrington Recognition Memory Test; FAS •  Rey 15-item •  Morel Emotional Numbing Test; Rey Word Recognition Test •  Wisconsin Card Sorting Test •  Coin in Hand Test •  the Victoria Symptom Validity Test •  Shipley-2; Pain Disability Index, and the NAB Shape Learning subtest. II.  Motion to be relieved as counsel  A. Discussion  Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d), “[t]he notice of motion and motion [to be relieved as counsel], the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail."  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) Here, the proofs of service attached to the notice of motion and motion and the declaration do not show service on Spada or James (the plaintiff in the consolidated case).  In addition, no proof of service is attached to the proposed order. The Court continues the hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel and orders moving counsel to file, at least five days before the continued hearing, proofs of service showing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on all parties who have appeared in the consolidated cases.  B. Conclusion: Motion to be relieved as counsel  The Court continues the hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel to December 23, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Court orders moving counsel to file, at least five days before the continued hearing, proofs of service showing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on all parties who have appeared in the consolidated cases. III.  Notice of rulings  Moving  parties and counsel are ordered to give notice of these rulings.  Moving  parties and counsel are ordered to file the proof of service of these ruling within five  days.