 Case Number:  23STCV05410    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  March 10, 2023, Plaintiff Raffi Semerjian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Jhonathan Duenas,  U-Haul, and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort.  On  April 28, 2023, Defendant U-Haul Co. of California,  incorrectly sued as U-Haul (“U-Haul”), filed an answer.  On June 14, 2023, Defendant Jonathan Duenas, incorrectly sued as Jhonathan Duenas (“Duenas”),  filed an answer.  On  September 16, 2024, U-Haul and Duenas (“Defendants”) filed a motion for  terminating sanctions, monetary sanctions, or to compel Plaintiff to sign forms  authorizing the release of Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance  records and to continue the trial and related deadlines.  The motion was set for hearing on November 6,  2024.  On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff  filed an opposition.  On October 30,  2024, Defendants filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 17, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendants  ask the Court to impose terminating sanctions and monetary sanctions on  Plaintiff or compel Plaintiff to sign forms authorizing the release of  Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance records and to continue the  trial and related deadlines.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating  sanctions  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part:  “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any  particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,  after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity  for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in  conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:  “(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney  advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may  also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has  engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised  that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision  of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  “(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering  that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance  with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery  process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting  any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or  opposing designated claims or defenses.  “(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an  order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  from introducing designated matters in evidence.  “(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by  one of the following orders:  “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of  the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.  “(2) An order staying further proceedings by that  party until an order for discovery is obeyed.  “(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of  the action, of that party.  “(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against  that party.  “(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an  order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court.  “(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other  section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not  impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide  electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or  overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic  information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2023.030.)                 B.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with  discovery orders  A  violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating  sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th  1611, 1620.)  Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in  disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d  771, 795-796 (Deyo).)  A  terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with  caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A  decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a  violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows  that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery  rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."  (Mileikowsky  v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky).)   DISCUSSION  A.   Defendants' request for terminating sanctions  Defendants  ask the Court to impose terminating sanctions on Plaintiff because Plaintiff  has declined to sign forms authorizing the release of records relating to  Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance claims.  Defendants cite no court order requiring Plaintiff  to sign these forms or evidence that Plaintiff has persisted in disobeying  court orders.  (See Deyo, supra,  84 Cal.App.3d at pp. 795-796; Mileikowsky, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th  at pp. 279-280.)  Terminating sanctions are unwarranted on these facts.  The Court denies Defendants’  request for terminating sanctions.  B.   Defendants' request for monetary sanctions  Defendants  also ask the Court to impose $6,960.00 in monetary sanctions on Plaintiff under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), based on his refusal  to sign the authorizations.    In City  of Los Angeles v. Pricewaterhousecoopers, LLP (2024) 17 Cal.5th 46 (PwC),  the Supreme Court held: “A court may invoke its independent authority to impose  sanctions under sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 only when confronted with an  unusual form of discovery abuse, or a pattern of abuse, not already addressed  by a relevant sanctions provision.”  (PwC,  supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 74.)  Plaintiff’s  refusal to sign authorizations for release of Medicare and Social Security  Disability Insurance information is not “an unusual form of discovery abuse, or  a pattern of abuse” (see PwC, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 74)  supporting an award of monetary sanctions.   The Court denies Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions.  C.   Defendants' request to compel Plaintiff to sign authorizations and  to continue the trial and related deadlines  In the  alternative, Defendants ask the Court to compel Plaintiff to sign the authorization  forms and to continue the trial and related dates.  Citing Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co.  (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913 (Miranda), Defendants argue that the courts “have  the power to compel parties to sign authorizations for release of medical  records.”  (Motion p. 9.)  In Miranda,  the plaintiff sued an underinsured motorist (“driver defendant”) for injuries  the plaintiff sustained in an automobile accident with the driver defendant.  (Miranda, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th  at p. 917.)  The plaintiff also demanded  arbitration of her underinsured motorist claim against her insurer (“insurer  defendant”).  (Ibid.)  The  insurer defendant subpoenaed medical records from facilities that had treated  the plaintiff.  (Miranda, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at p.  918.)  The facilities stated that they required  the plaintiff to provide signed authorizations before they could release the records.  (Ibid.)  The insurer defendant asked the plaintiff to  provide the authorizations.  (Ibid.)  The plaintiff refused.  (Ibid.)  The  insurer defendant moved under Insurance Code section 11580.2 to compel the plaintiff  to sign the authorizations.  (Miranda,  supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at p. 918.)  The trial court granted the motion and ordered  the plaintiff to sign the authorizations.   (Id. at p. 919.)  However,  the plaintiff continued to refuse to sign the authorizations.  (Ibid.)  The insurer defendant moved for terminating  sanctions.  (Ibid.)  The trial court granted the motion and dismissed  the case.  (Ibid.)  The  Court of Appeal affirmed, reasoning that the trial court had ordered the plaintiff to sign the authorizations but the plaintiff had "flatly refused to  obey a court order. This was not an inadvertent failure to respond to  discovery, or a mere late service of a discovery response. It was defiant  disobedience of the court's order."  (Miranda, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at p. 929.)  The appellate court also concluded that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that lesser sanctions would not have been effective.  (Ibid.)            Miranda recognizes that terminating sanctions may be  appropriate when a party refuses to obey a court order to sign an authorization  for release of medical records.  The  decision does not, however, hold that the trial court correctly ordered the plaintiff to sign the authorization or address when it is appropriate for a court to order  a party to sign an authorization.  “A  case is not authority for a proposition not considered therein or an issue not  presented by its own particular facts.”   (McConnell v. Advantest America, Inc. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 596,  611.)  Miranda, therefore, does  not support Defendants’ request for an order directing Plaintiff to sign the  authorizations for release of Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance  records.           The Court denies Defendants' request to compel Plaintiff to sign  authorizations for release of records and to continue the trial and related  deadlines.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES the motion of Defendants U-Haul Co. of California and Jonathan  Duenas for terminating sanctions,  monetary sanctions, or to compel Plaintiff Raffi Semerjian to sign forms  authorizing the release of Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance  records and to continue the trial and related deadlines. Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.