 Case Number:  22STCV37980    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  December 5, 2022, Plaintiff Tiffany Nicole Evins (“Plaintiff”) filed this  action against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for public employee negligence (vicarious  liability – Gov. Code, § 815.2).  On  March 7, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  On  September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an application for pro hac vice admission  of Kyle W. Chapel, Esq., to represent  Plaintiff.  The application was set for  hearing on November 6, 2024.  Trial  is currently set for April 10, 2025.  PARTY’S REQUEST  Plaintiff  asks the Court to admit Kyle W. Chapel, Esq., pro hac vice.  LEGAL STANDARD  “A  person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of California but who is an  attorney in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any  United States court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular  possession of the United States, and who has been retained to appear in a  particular cause pending in a court of this state, may in the discretion of  such court be permitted upon written application to appear as counsel pro hac  vice, provided that an active licensee of the State Bar of California is  associated as attorney of record. No person is eligible to appear as counsel  pro hac vice under this rule if the person is:  “(1)  A resident of the State of California;  “(2)  Regularly employed in the State of  California; or  “(3)  Regularly engaged in substantial business,  professional, or other activities in the State of California.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  9.40(a).)  “Absent  special circumstances, repeated appearances by any person under this rule is a  cause for denial of an application.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(b).)  “A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice  in a superior court must file with the court a verified application together  with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure  section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the  application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the  State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must  be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless  the court has prescribed a shorter period.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  9.40(c)(1).)  “The  application must state:  “(1)  The applicant's residence and office address;  “(2)  The courts to which the applicant has been  admitted to practice and the dates of admission;  “(3)  That the applicant is a licensee in good  standing in those courts;  “(4)  That the applicant is not currently suspended  or disbarred in any court;  “(5)  The title of each court and cause in which  the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in  this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and  whether or not it was granted; and  “(6)  The name, address, and telephone number of  the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  9.40(d).)            The applicant must also pay a fee to the State Bar.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff’s  application for pro hac vice admission of Kyle W. Chapel, Esq., does not state whether  the court granted counsel’s application for pro hac vice admission in James Crabtree v. Ramona Dairy LLC, et al., case no. CVRI2100097 in Riverside County, California.  (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(5).)  The  Court continues the hearing on Plaintiff’s application for pro hac vice  admission and orders counsel to submit a supplemental declaration that provides this  information.  CONCLUSION  The  Court CONTINUES Plaintiff Tiffany Nicole Evins’s application for pro hac vice admission  of Kyle W. Chapel, Esq., to December 23, 2024, at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of  the Spring Street Courthouse.  The  Court orders Kyle W. Chapel, Esq., to file and serve a supplemental declaration  at least five days before the continued hearing.  The supplemental declaration should state  whether the court granted Kyle W. Chapel, Esq.’s application for pro hac vice  admission in James Crabtree v. Ramona  Dairy LLC, et al., Case No. CVRI2100097 in Riverside County, California.  Kyle W. Chapel, Esq., must also serve the supplemental declaration on the State Bar of California.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.