 Case Number:  22STCV38594    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 12, 2022, Plaintiff Elena Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”) and Does
1-20 for negligence and wrongful death. 
On
March 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
September 13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff to respond to deposition questions and for monetary sanctions.  The motion was set for hearing on November 6,
2024.  On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition and request for sanctions. 
On November 1, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 7, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff to respond to
deposition questions and for monetary sanctions. 
Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion and for monetary sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
 “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).) 
“[A] party asserting privacy may . . . object and refuse to answer on this ground .
. . .”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:316, p. 8C-117
(Cal. Practice Guide).) 
“The
party seeking discovery must show a particularized need for the confidential
information sought.  The broad ‘relevancy
to the subject matter’ standard is not enough here.  The court must be convinced that the
information is directly relevant to a cause of action or defense, i.e., that it
is essential to determining the truth of the matters in dispute.” (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:320, p. 8C-119, emphasis omitted.) 
“A
deponent who has objected to a question and refused to answer bears the burden
of justifying such refusal on the motion to compel.  For example, if the objection was that the
question called for privileged information, the burden is on the deponent to
show that the question in fact calls for information protected by a privilege.”
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:814, p. 8E-149.) 
Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s right to privacy under State or federal
law.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97.)  “The burden is on
‘the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.’”  (Id., ¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98.) 
“Unlike
privilege, the protection afforded is qualified, not absolute.  In each case, the court must carefully
balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery [citation].  The showing required to overcome the
protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in some cases,
a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a compelling interest
must be shown.  ‘Only obvious invasions
of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling
interest.’ ”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98, quoting Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 557, emphasis omitted.)  The Court
should consider the purpose of the information sought, the effect that
disclosure will have on the parties and the trial, the nature of the objections
urged by the party resisting disclosure, and the court’s ability to make an
alternative order which may grant partial disclosure, disclosure in another
form, or disclosure only if the party seeking the information meets certain
conditions.  (Id., ¶ 8:323, pp.
8C-120 to 8C-121.) 
“[H]ome
contact information is generally considered private.”  (County of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles
County Employee Relations Com. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 904, 927 [although County
employees have a legally protected privacy interest in their home addresses and
phone numbers, the balance of interests favored disclosure of this information
to the union that represents them].) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s cell phone number 
At
the second session of her deposition on July 3, 2024, Defendant’s counsel asked
Plaintiff for her cell phone number. 
Plaintiff’s counsel objected based on Plaintiff’s privacy rights and
instructed Plaintiff not to provide her cell phone number.  Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff to
provide her cell phone number at a further session of her deposition.  In addition, Defendant asks the Court to
compel Plaintiff to sign a waiver authorizing Defendant to obtain Plaintiff’s
cell phone records.  (Motion pp. 9-10.) 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s cell phone number is “reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence” (Motion p. 2) and is “relevant” because it will allow Defendant to
subpoena cell phone records showing “texts and other messages that were
exchanged between Plaintiff and her daughter in the days leading up to
September 13, 2022, and on the date of Decedent’s death” (Motion p. 7).  According to Defendant,
“[t]hese records are relevant because communication between Plaintiff and
Decedent during the period in question can shed light on such questions for
instance, on Decedent’s whereabouts and whether she skipped class or school.”  (Motion p. 7.) 
Plaintiff
responds that she has already produced documents related to her cell phone
communications in response to Defendant’s discovery requests and Defendant has
not moved to compel further responses.  In
addition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to overcome Plaintiff’s
privacy interests because Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff’s cell phone
number is necessary to Defendant’s defenses. 
The
Court has weighed Plaintiff’s privacy right in her cell phone number against
Defendant’s need for discovery, considering the
purpose of the information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the
parties and the trial, the nature of Plaintiff’s objection, and the Court’s
ability to make an alternative order.  The
Court concludes that Plaintiff’s privacy interests outweigh Defendant’s need to
obtain Plaintiff’s cell phone number. 
The Court therefore denies Defendant’s request to compel Plaintiff to disclose
her cell phone number and to sign a release authorizing Defendant to obtain
Plaintiff’s cell phone records. 
B.   Bulmaro Diaz’s phone number 
At
the July 3, 2024 session of Plaintiff’s deposition, Defendant’s counsel asked
Plaintiff if her cell phone contained Bulmaro Diaz’s phone number.  Plaintiff responded that she did not remember.  Defendant’s counsel then asked Plaintiff to
check her cell phone to see if it contained Bulmaro Diaz’s phone number.
 Plaintiff’s
counsel instructed Plaintiff not to comply with the request to check her cell
phone.  Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff
to comply with Defendant’s counsel's request. 
Defendant
contends that Bulmaro Diaz’s phone number is “relevan[t]” because “Mr. Diaz was
Plaintiff’s live-in boyfriend on September 13, 2022.  He lived in Plaintiff’s home and was the
father of two of her children. He was in communication with Decedent during
relevant periods. He was also a percipient witness to events leading up to
Decedent’s purchase of drugs, ingestion and her death.”  (Motion p. 8; see Motion p. 9 [Defendant
argues that “Mr. Diaz’s knowledge of Decedent’s habits with regard to drug use
is relevant to this case”].)  In
addition, Defendant asserts that “obtaining
Mr. Diaz’s cell phone number is an indispensable part of the effort contact
him.”  (Motion p. 9.) 
In response,
Plaintiff argues that the request to disclose a phone number contained in her
cell phone violates her right to privacy and First Amendment right to
association. 
The
Court has weighed Plaintiff’s privacy and First Amendment association rights
against Defendant’s need for discovery, considering the purpose of the
information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the parties and the
trial, the nature of Plaintiff’s objections, and the Court’s ability to make an
alternative order.  The Court concludes
that Plaintiff’s privacy and First Amendment association rights outweigh
Defendant’s need have Plaintiff check her cell phone to see if it contains
Bulmaro Diaz’s phone number.  The Court
therefore denies Defendant’s request. 
C.   Sanctions 
The
Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions.  Although the Court has denied Defendant’s
motion, the Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial justification for
purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (j). 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion to compel Plaintiff
Elena
Perez to respond to deposition questions and for monetary sanctions. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Elena Perez’s request for
sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
Moving
party is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.