 Case Number:  23BBCV03087    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
rrrm holding
  company, llc, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
vigan
  sardariani,
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV03087
  Related with: 23PDUD04099, 24PDUD00343, and
  24BBCV00136
 
  Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff RRRM
Holding Company, LLC (“Plaintiff” or “RRRM”) alleges that it is entitled to
possession of 7139 Foothill Boulevard, Tujunga, CA 91042 as the owner of the
real property.  Plaintiff alleges that on
April 27, 2002, Plaintiff entered into a written lease agreement with Defendant
Vigan Sardariani (“Sardariani”). 
Plaintiff alleges that the lease expired and became a month-to-month
tenancy effective May 1, 2012.  Plaintiff
alleges that since September 30, 2023, rent was due and owing in the amount of
$121,000.  
The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed February 20, 2024, allege causes of action
for: (1) non-payment of rent; and (2) failure to vacate after termination of
tenancy. 
On February 2,
2024, the default of All Tenants, Subtenants, Named Claimants and Other Occupants
was entered.  
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On
July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment against Defendants
Sardariani and V&S Complete Auto Repairs, Inc. (“V&S”).  Plaintiff argues that there are no triable
issues of material facts, Defendants have no defenses as to Plaintiff’s
complaint that would prevent possession being restored to Plaintiff, and
Plaintiff is entitled to judgment for possession as a matter of law.  Plaintiff states that it is seeking judgment
for possession only and will reserve the right to pursue money in a separate
action.
On
July 26, 2024, Sardariani and V&S filed an opposition brief. 
On
August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of Exhibits: (B) the December 17, 2018 Release of
Claims; (E) Plaintiff’s verified complaint with exhibits; (F) Defendant
Sardariani’s answer; and (G) Plaintiff’s verified complaint and Defendant
V&S’s answer in Case No. 24PDUD00343. 
The request is granted.  (Evid.
Code, §§ 452(c), (d).)  The Court notes
that Sardariani and V&S object to the Court taking judicial notice of the
settlement agreement attached as Exhibit B to Plaintiff’s request, yet Sardariani
and V&S also cite to the document in their opposition papers.  (See Opp. at p.5 at lines 7-12 and fn.
3.)  Further, Plaintiff’s counsel Raymond
Zakari attaches the document as a part of his declaration and states that it
was admitted as Exhibit 18 to Defendant’s deposition.  (Zakari Decl., ¶3.)  Thus, the Court will consider the
document.   
            Plaintiff
filed a supplemental request for judicial notice with the reply brief of
Exhibits: (G) the declaration of Roland Markarian in support of the reply to
the motion to expunge lis pendens filed on April 5, 2024; (H) Defendants’ civil
complaint in LASC Case No. 24BBCV000136; and (I) relevant portions of a
petition for writ of mandate filed with the Court of Appeal.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment against Defendants Sardariani and V&S in this
action.  
            Plaintiff
provides the declaration of Roland Markarian in support of the motion.  Mr. Markarian states that he is the managing
member of RRRM.  (Markarian Decl., ¶1.)  He states that in April 2002, he initially
signed a 10-year lease agreement with two 5-year options with Sardariani for
the subject commercial premises.  (Id.,
¶2; Zakari Decl., Ex. C [Commercial Lease Agreement].)  He states that in 2016, for estate planning
purposes, he changed title to RRRM with the help of an attorney, and he
notified tenant Sardariani that he moved the subject property to RRRM and that
per their lease, he needed to update his insurance policy to reflect RRRM as an
additional insured.  (Markarian Decl.,
¶3.)  He states that Sardariani
ultimately provided him with a Certificate of Liability Insurance dated May 4, 2017,
naming RRRM as a Certificate Holder.  (Id.)  Mr. Markarian states that on December 17,
2018, after a dispute over a second 5-year option, he and Sardariani signed a
Mutual Settlement and Release of Claims, including a release of any and all
unknown claims under Civil Code, § 1542. 
(Id., ¶4; Zarkari Decl., Ex. B [12/17/18 Mutual Settlement
Agreement and Release of Claims].)  He
states that the lease expired on May 1, 2022 and he brought an unlawful
detainer (“UD”) action against Sardariani, but Sardariani contended that Mr.
Markarian had received the May 2022 rent and did not return the rent fast
enough, such that they had a month-to-month tenancy.  (Markarian Decl., ¶5.)  Mr. Markarian states that this was not his
intention such that he returned the May 2022 payment to Sardariani and returned
all subsequent rent checks after May 2022 due to the pending unlawful detainer.  (Id.) 
He states that on September 13, 2023, his initial UD action was
dismissed to allow the parties to arbitrate, but he had still not collected
rent for the use and occupancy of the premises, though he was aware that
Sardariani had deposited $11,000 each month with the Court as security for
remaining at the premises.  (Id.,
¶6.)  He states that he has not received
the benefit of the money and is aware that Sardariani is collecting
approximately $11,000 each month from his subtenant, Rush Hour Collision.  (Id.) 
He states that Sardariani refused to proceed with arbitration.  (Id.) 
Mr. Markarian states that on October 1, 2023, his attorney served
Sardariani with a 3 Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit and a 30 Day Notice to
Quit.  (Id., ¶7; RJN, Ex. A [30
Day Notice to Quit].)  He states that on December 17, 2023, after learning that Sardariani was
evicting Rush Hour Collision (Ara Ohanjanyan and Arman Arutyunyan) through
V&S, he had his attorney serve V&S with a 30 Day Notice to Quit.  (Markarian Decl., ¶8; RJN, Ex. G
[24PDUD00343 Complaint at Ex. 1 [30 Day Notice to Quit].)  Mr. Markarian states that he had received
rent payments from V&S in the past, but believed that V&S was a dba for
Sardariani and not a separate entity claiming a right to possession, as Mr.
Markarian never received a copy of the assignment and Sardariani did not notify
him of the assignment.  (Markarian Decl.,
¶8.)  He states that he has not
received rent from Sardariani or V&S since April 2022 and they have not
relinquished possession of the subject property to him.  (Id., ¶¶9-10.)  
            Plaintiff
has upheld its initial burden in summary judgment showing that the lease
expired on May 1, 2022, Plaintiff served a 3 Day Notice to
Pay Rent or Quit and a 30 Day Notice to Quit on October 1, 2023, and Sardariani
and V&S are still in possession of the premises.  Thus, the burden shifts to Sardariani and
V&S to raise a triable issue of material fact.  
            In
opposition, Sardariani and V&S acknowledge that there is no dispute that
they are in possession of the premises and that RRRM wants them off the
premises, but they argue that RRRM has not established the essential element of
ownership to support a UD claim.  (Opp.
at pp.3-4.)  Sardariani and V&S argue
that while the complaint alleges that RRRM is the owner of the real property
(Pl.’s RJN at Exs. E and G), the lease agreements show that Markarian is the landlord
and that Sardariani is the tenant (Zakari Decl., Ex. C).  Sardariani and V&S also include the May
11, 2022 complaint in Case No. 22PDUD00815, wherein Markarian alleged that he
was the owner of the premises.  (Rifat
Decl., Ex. A [5/11/22 22PDUD00815 Compl., ¶¶1, 4]; see also Ex. B [9/16/22 Motion
for Order Requiring Payment of Fair Rental Value in 22PDUD00815]; Ex. C
[10/7/22 Minute Order in 22PDUD00815].)[1]  Finally, Sardariani and V&S argue that
the Mutual Settlement Agreement and Release of Claims dated December 17, 2018 is
entered between Markarian as landlord and Sardarian as tenant, is signed by
Markarian, and makes no mention of RRRM. 
(Pl.’s RJN, Ex. B.)  These facts
and opposing evidence raise triable issues of material fact regarding ownership
of the premises at the motion for summary judgment stage. 
            With
the reply brief, Plaintiff provides evidence that Matthew D. Rifat, counsel for
Sardariani and V&S, signed and filed a complaint, alleging that Markarian,
without notice to Sardariani as required by the Lease, transferred ownership of
the premises to RRRM with the intent of interfering with Sardariani’s interest
in the premises and avoid the terms of the lease.  (Pl.’s RJN, Ex. H [Sardariani and V&S’s
complaint in 24BBCV00136 at ¶4; Ex. I at p.15.) 
Plaintiff also argues that Sardariani and V&S have acknowledged that
RRRM is the owner of the property and pursued a lis pendens against the
property to ensure there was no transfer from RRRM to another.  (Reply at p.4.)  Plaintiff argues that the arguments raised in
the opposition should not be accepted as true, Defendants have failed to raise
a triable issue of material fact, and any opposing “facts” are based on
misrepresented evidence.  
            Sardariani
and V&S also argue that Plaintiff only provides Markarian’s declaration
wherein he states that he changed title in the property to RRRM in 2016, but
the declaration does not include any documentary evidence to support that the
title change occurred.  Indeed, the
moving papers do not include a deed or any exhibits showing that there was a
change in title or ownership in the property from Markarian to RRRM.  Even with the reply brief, no documentary
evidence showing any transfer of ownership in the property has been
provided.  At this point, the parties
cite to different papers that the other party has filed—Plaintiff provides
papers filed by Sardariani/V&S stating that RRRM is the owner of the
property, while Sardariani/V&S provide papers filed by Markarian/RRRM
stating that Markarian is the owner of the property.  Both parties attempt to rely on estoppel,
arguing that the other cannot deny that they have alleged or admitted facts
regarding the identity of the owner. 
However, at this point at the summary judgment stage, the Court cannot
ascertain whether Markarian or RRRM is the proper owner of the property or who
has standing to pursuing the UD claim. 
The parties’ arguments and conflicting admissions/acknowledgements raises
a triable issue of material fact.  Until
there is definitive proof (i.e., a document showing an actual change of
ownership from Markarian to RRRM), the Court cannot make a factual
determination on the merits regarding this issue.  
            As
such, there are triable issues of material fact regarding the ownership of the
subject property.  Thus, the motion for
summary judgment is denied. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff
RRRM Holding Company, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 
Plaintiff shall give notice of this
order.   
 
DATED: August 2,
2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


