 Case Number:  22BBCV01327    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B



 
HAYLEY DYLAN f/k/a HAYLEY MENDELL, an
  individual, 
 
                     Plaintiff, 
 
v. 
 
JOHN DOE, an individual; PRIVATE SCHOOL
  DOE, a California non-profit corporation; and DOES 33 through 10, inclusive. 
  
  
 


 
   Case
  No. 22BBCV01327
 
Hearing
  Date:  August 2, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
ex parte application to amend the
  verified complaint to substitute defendants’ real names for the fictitious
  designations; and order to show cause re: Why Defendants Should Not be Named
  by Their True Names in the Pleadings



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff
Haylsey Dylan f/k/a Hayley Mendell (“Plaintiff”) alleges that in the summer of
1987, she was 15 years old and was attending summer school at Defendant Private
School Doe when she was sexually assaulted by an adult male, Defendant John Doe
(alluded to as a “Former Professional Athlete”), in a locked janitor’s closet
in the high school gymnasium.  Plaintiff
alleges that the Los Angeles Lakers were filming an instructional basketball
video in Private School Doe’s gym and that students and faculty were allowed to
meet and interact with the players during breaks in the filming.  Plaintiff alleges that during one of the
breaks, the production staff began ushering out the students, faculty, and
parents to resume filming, but John Doe pointed toward her and said to the production
staff, “She can stay.”  Plaintiff
alleges that Private School Doe faculty members and staff were present in the
gym that day, saw John Doe single Plaintiff out to remain with him, left her
unattended, and did not provide any safeguards. 
Plaintiff alleges that she took photographs with John Doe, he invited
her to eat lunch with him, and he asked her for a school tour.  Plaintiff alleges that during the tour, he
took her to a janitor’s closet and sexually assaulted her.  
The complaint,
filed December 30, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) sexual battery
(Civil Code, § 1708.5); (2) sexual assault; (3) violation of Penal Code, §
647.6; (4) false imprisonment; (5) assault; (6) battery; (7) IIED; (8) NIED;
and (9) negligence. 
B.    
Cross-Complaint 
On June 7, 2024,
John Doe filed a cross-complaint against Private School Doe for: (1) indemnity;
(2) equitable contribution; (3) negligence; (4) declaratory relief; and (5)
proration of damages (Civil Code, § 1431 et seq.).  
C.    
Motion on Calendar
On June 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for permission to amend the
verified complaint to substitute Defendants’ real names for the fictitious
designations.  
On June 24,
2024, John Doe filed an opposition to the ex parte application. 
            On
June 25, 2024, the Court held a hearing on the ex parte application and set the
matter as a noticed motion for August 2, 2024. 
The Court also set an Order to Show Cause re: Why Defendants Should Not
be Named by Their True Names in the Pleadings for August 2, 2024.  The Court allowed Defendants to file a
responsive pleading to the OSC 10 days before August 2, 2024.  
On July 18,
2024, John Doe filed an opposition to the ex parte application. 
            On
July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 

LEGAL STANDARD
CCP § 340.1(a) states in relevant part: 
(a) There is no time limit for the commencement of any of the following actions
for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual
assault:
(1) An action against any person for committing an act
of childhood sexual assault.
(2) An action for liability against any person or
entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act
by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that
resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
(3) An action for liability against any person or
entity if an intentional act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the
childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
…
(e) Every plaintiff
40 years of age or older at the time the action is filed shall file
certificates of merit as specified in subdivision (f). 
(f) Certificates of
merit setting forth the facts that support the
declaration shall be executed by the attorney for the plaintiff and by a
licensed mental health practitioner selected by the plaintiff declaring,
respectively, as follows: … 
(g) If certificates
are required pursuant to subdivision (e),
the attorney for the plaintiff shall execute a separate certificate of merit
for each defendant named in the complaint.
(h) In any action
subject to subdivision (e), a defendant shall
not be served, and the duty to serve a defendant with process does not attach,
until the court has reviewed the certificates of merit filed pursuant to
subdivision (f) with respect to that defendant, and
has found, in camera, based solely on those certificates of merit, that there
is reasonable and meritorious cause for the filing of the action against that
defendant. At that time, the duty to serve that defendant with process shall
attach.
(i) A violation of
this section may constitute unprofessional conduct and may be the grounds for
discipline against the attorney.
…
(k) In any action
subject to subdivision (e), a defendant shall
be named by “Doe” designation in any pleadings or papers filed in the action
until there has been a showing of corroborative fact as to the charging
allegations against that defendant.
(l) At any time after the action is filed, the plaintiff may apply to the
court for permission to amend the complaint to substitute the name of the
defendant or defendants for the fictitious designation, as follows:
(1) The application shall be accompanied by a
certificate of corroborative fact executed by the attorney for the plaintiff.
The certificate shall declare that the attorney has discovered one or more
facts corroborative of one or more of the charging allegations against a
defendant or defendants, and shall set forth in clear and concise terms the
nature and substance of the corroborative fact. If the corroborative fact is
evidenced by the statement of a witness or the contents of a document, the
certificate shall declare that the attorney has personal knowledge of the
statement of the witness or of the contents of the document, and the identity
and location of the witness or document shall be included in the certificate.
For purposes of this section, a fact is corroborative of an allegation if it
confirms or supports the allegation. The opinion of any mental health
practitioner concerning the plaintiff shall not constitute a corroborative fact
for purposes of this section.
(2) If the application to name a defendant is made
before that defendant's appearance in the action, neither the application nor
the certificate of corroborative fact by the attorney shall be served on the
defendant or defendants, nor on any other party or their counsel of record.
(3) If the application to name a defendant is made
after that defendant's appearance in the action, the application shall be
served on all parties and proof of service provided to the court, but the
certificate of corroborative fact by the attorney shall not be served on any
party or their counsel of record.
(m) The court shall
review the application and the certificate of corroborative fact in camera and,
based solely on the certificate and any reasonable inferences to be drawn from
the certificate, shall, if one or more facts corroborative of one or more of
the charging allegations against a defendant has been shown, order that the
complaint may be amended to substitute the name of the defendant or defendants.
(n) The court
shall keep under seal and confidential from the public and all parties to the
litigation, other than the plaintiff, any and all certificates of corroborative
fact filed pursuant to subdivision (l).
(o) Upon the favorable conclusion of the litigation with respect to any
defendant for whom a certificate of merit was filed or for whom a certificate
of merit should have been filed pursuant to this section, the court may, upon
the motion of a party or upon the court's own motion, verify compliance with
this section by requiring the attorney for the plaintiff who was required
by subdivision (f) to execute the certificate to reveal
the name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons consulted with
pursuant to subdivision (f) that were relied
upon by the attorney in preparation of the certificate of merit. The name,
address, and telephone number shall be disclosed to the trial judge in camera
and in the absence of the moving party. If the court finds there has been a
failure to comply with this section, the court may order a party, a party's
attorney, or both, to pay any reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by the defendant for whom a certificate of merit should have been
filed.
            …
(CCP § 340.1 [italics added].)  
DISCUSSION RE EX
PARTE APPLICATION
            Plaintiff
moves for court orders to: (1) grant Plaintiff’s request to lodge a copy of her
Certificate of Corroborative Fact under seal pursuant to CCP § 340.1(n); (2)
conduct an in camera review of the application and Plaintiff’s
Certificate of Corroborative Fact pursuant to CCP § 340.1(l) and (m);
and (3) based on the in camera review, issue an order pursuant to CCP §
340.1(m) allowing Plaintiff to amend the verified complaint to substitute the
real names of Defendants John Doe and Public School Doe for the fictitious
designations.  
            John
Doe’s June 24, 2024 opposition argues only procedural grounds to deny the
motion—namely, that Plaintiff has not shown irreparable harm or immediate
danger to seek ex parte relief.  In John
Doe’s July 18, 2024 3-page opposition, John Doe argues that Plaintiff’s request
is premature because there are no known facts to corroborate her allegations
against John Doe at this time, he is a public figure such that irreparable harm
to his character and reputation may ensue, and thus maintaining confidentiality
until after discovery would be reasonable. 

            The
Court notes that Private School Doe has been served but has not yet appeared in
the action, paid first appearance fees, or filed an answer.  However, based on the Notice and
Acknowledgement of Receipt (filed October 5, 2023), the summons, complaint, and
other documents were served on Private School Doe and James A. Harris for
Private School Doe signed an Acknowledgement of Receipt on September 26,
2023.  The application is not opposed by
Private School Doe.  
            Plaintiff
argues that the procedural requirements of section 340.1 have been met.  Plaintiff commenced this lawsuit after her
fortieth birthday (Compl., ¶4) and, thus, she has filed Certificates of Merits
as to John Doe and Private School Doe on December 30, 2022.  (See CCP § 340.1(e), (f)-(g), (k)-(l).)  Plaintiff has served all parties and John Doe
has answered the complaint on June 7, 2024. 

            The Court denies Plaintiff’s ex parte application. 
In cases such as
this, documents such as Certificates of Merit and Certificates of Corroborative
Facts are filed under seal without any ability of the defendants to review the
documents—unless and until a favorable conclusion of the litigation with respect
to any defendant for whom a Certificate of Merit was filed.  Moreover, even then, the party being accused
does not see the actual certificates of corroborative fact, but only a summary
of some of the information in them. The procedure by which the application is
brought, and these certificates are reviewed by the Court without any review or
opportunity of the defendant to review the evidence against him before
suffering prejudice in court is a patently an unconstitutional denial of due
process to the Defendant, and violation of the separation of powers by which
the judicial branch is to decide cases based on fundamental fairness and an
ethical search for the truth. 
The Court has
previously shared some of its thoughts regarding the constitutionality of the
procedure. (See Court’s Order Allowing Service of Process dated January 30,
2023.) In connection with the Certificates of Merit, CCP § 340.1(h) states that
the court shall conduct an in camera review of the documents to
determine if there is reasonable and meritorious cause for filing the action
against that defendant; only upon determination that there is merit, the
plaintiff may serve the defendant with process. 
The
Court’s in camera review, and then subsequent sealing of these
certificates of merit means that the defendant cannot see them, ever, unless
there is a “favorable conclusion of the litigation” with respect to that
defendant. (CCP § 340.1(p).) 
Nevertheless, the Court’s factual determination that the case has merit
is a case dispositive event: without it, the action cannot even be served. Thus,
dispositive action has been taken against a defendant without notice or
opportunity for hearing. It has been established for more than 50 years that
this is fundamental denial of due process that extends to both civil and
criminal proceeding, as the Supreme Court decided in Sniadach v. Family
Finance Corp. of Bay View (1969) 395 U.S. 337,[1] when
it decided that there must be an opportunity for notice and hearing before a
wage garnishment could take place. Three years later the Supreme Court was even
more emphatic in stating the right to be notified and be heard in a civil case:

For more than
a century the central meaning of procedural due process has been clear:
"Parties whose rights are to be affected are entitled to be heard; and in
order that they may enjoy that right they must first
be notified." Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223, 233. See Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U.S. 274; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U.S. 409; Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U.S. 385.  It is equally fundamental that the right to
notice and an opportunity to be heard "must be granted at a meaningful
time and in a meaningful manner." Armstrong v. Manzo, 380 U.S. 545, 552.
(Fuentes v.
Shevin (1972) 407 U.S. 67, 80.)
Nevertheless,
Plaintiff was determined that the Court review her Certificates of Merit and decide
the merits of her case. The Court wondered at one of the hearings as to why this
pointless exercise was occurring since the Court assumed, for the purpose of
the ex parte hearings, that the unconstitutional provisions could be separately
considered, and allowed service of process. This was especially puzzling given
that Plaintiff has eschewed anonymity herself, thus making herself open to a
public trial. Counsel cited to section 340.1(i), which threatens discipline for
disobedience to the strict rules of the statute: “A violation of this
section may constitute unprofessional conduct and may be the grounds for
discipline against the attorney.”  (CCP §
340.1(i).) One might ask: What violation of the attorney ethics is such an
attorney to be charged with and disciplined for? Daring to challenge the
unconstitutional nature of a legislative action? Advocating for fundamental
fairness in court proceedings? These are not matters for discipline, but rather
the essence of what it means to be a good lawyer: to challenge unfair
procedures. 
The Court system
also has its own independence and ethical conduct to consider. For a court to be
required to make binding, case-dispositive findings, in secret, in the absence
of any admissible evidence, violates any conventional notion of separation of
powers and defies the fundamentals of due process. Under Article 3, section 3
of the California Constitution, “The powers of state government are
legislative, executive, and judicial. Persons charged with the exercise of one
power may not exercise either of the others….” The separation of powers doctrine
protects the judiciary’s core and essential functions: to resolve specific
controversies between the parties and declare the law. (Case v.
Lazben Financial Co. (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 172, 184-85.)  
Here, the legislature is mandating that
the Court make a factual and legal finding regarding a specific controversy,
but in secret and without evidence.  These certificates contain no admissible
evidence on which a court could make a determination of merit. There is no
judicial discretion to evaluate the evidence, if there were evidence, yet the
Court must make such a factual determination in factual vacuum so sterile and
secret that the Court does not even know who the parties are.  Under such circumstances, the Legislature is
dictating the result in a particular case, which it is not permitted to do. 
Subsequent to the Court’s January 30, 2023, opinion, Plaintiff sought an
order from the Court of Appeal compelling the Court to follow the
unconstitutional procedure set forth in CCP § 340.1(h). The Court of Appeal
specifically ordered that these appellate proceedings should also proceed
without notice to defendants. (See Court of Appeal’s Order of August 16, 2023.)
In response to the direct order of the Court of Appeal issued on August 23,
2023, this Court issued the orders demanded by the Court of Appeal. Although
the Court of Appeal suggested that there was a “clear legal error,” the Court of
Appeal did not reveal what that error could be. Neither did the Court of Appeal
decide any of the Constitutional questions that this Court laid out in its
January 30, 2023 opinion. While this Court obviously disagreed with the Court
of Appeal’s order, particularly with the ex parte procedure the Court of Appeal
used to reach that result, the Court complied as ordered by that Court. In this
Court’s view, without obedience of subsidiary courts to the direct and specific
orders of appellate courts, the court system cannot function. 
            The presentation of the Certificates
of Corroborative Facts, by which the Plaintiff seeks to name the Defendants
personally, presents a similar, but distinct question of law. As the Court of
Appeal did not analyze any of the legal or constitutional questions at issue
with the other section of the statute, the Court is once again required to do
its own analysis with respect to a separate section of the statute. Moreover,
the Court of Appeal’s prior consideration of the case can have no res judicata
effect, as the Court of Appeal chose to decide the matter without notice or
hearing to the real party in interest.[2]

With respect to Certificates of Corroborative Facts, subsection (l)
states that the court shall review the document in camera and “based solely on the certificate and any reasonable inferences to be drawn from the
certificate, shall, if one or more facts corroborative of one or more of the
charging allegations against a defendant has been shown, order that the
complaint may be amended to substitute the name of the defendant or
defendants.”  The statute contemplates
that upon this procedure occurring, the defendant’s true name may be
revealed.  (Plaintiffs are allowed to
maintain anonymity, thus obtaining an advantage in the litigation.) The
standard, requiring only one “corroborative” fact, hardly seems to promote a
genuine consideration of the evidence. 
            Once again, the legislature is
requiring that this Court consider evidence in secret and decide questions that
will affect substantive rights of the parties without providing Defendants with
notice, or hearing, or the opportunity to review the “evidence” against them.
Like the prior procedure followed with respect to the service of process, the
procedure is an unconstitutional denial of due process to the defendant. For
example, in response to this application, Defendant Mr. Doe has stated: “There
are no known facts that could corroborate Plaintiff’s allegations against Mr.
Doe at this time.” (Doe Opposition dated July 18, 2024 at p.2.) Yet how can the
Court even decide whether there is or is not a “known fact” unless the Court
can hear from both sides of the proceeding? Without notice of what the alleged
evidence might be, Defendants cannot challenge it. Likewise, the Court cannot,
consistent with fundamental fairness, decide whether or not evidence exists or
is sufficient. 
The procedure under subsection (l) also violates the separation of
powers by requiring secret proceedings. While the legislature has some leeway
to dictate how Courts decide cases, there must be a limit, and when the
legislature is ordering secret proceedings that are inherently abhorrent to
fairness in a western country that values due process, that limit has been
crossed. The Court declines to conduct any secret proceedings pursuant to the
Certificates of Corroborative Facts and will not make any findings of fact in
secret through an in camera hearing on sealed documents that Defendants
are unable to review during the case. The Court will make no order requiring
secrecy of anything. Secret hearings are abhorrent in the United States, and we
regularly criticize other countries that hold secret hearings This Court sits
in Burbank, not Moscow. Even those accused of sexual abuse are entitle to
notice and hearing and to view the evidence against them. 
The Court declines to grant the relief
requested by Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s reliance in CCP § 340.1(l)
and (m), as the Court finds the procedure delineated in these subsections to be
unconstitutional.  
DISCUSSION
RE OSC re: Why Defendants Should Not be
Named by Their True Names in the Pleadings
            On June
25, 2024, the Court set an “Order to Show Cause re: Why Defendants Should Not
be Named by Their True Names in the Pleadings” to be held concurrently with the
continued ex parte application hearing.  
            While the Court denies the ex parte
application pursuant to CCP § 340.1 for an order to name Doe Defendants based
on the grounds Plaintiff has argued in the application papers, the Court will
have the parties be identified by their true names following the OSC. There has
never been a basis, consistent with the constitutional right of the public to
open proceedings, to conceal the names of the parties in this case. 
There is a general
constitutional right of access by the public to all court proceedings.
We
believe that the public has an interest, in all
civil cases, in observing and assessing the performance of its public judicial
system, and that interest strongly supports a general right of access in
ordinary civil cases. 
(NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th
1178, 1210.) 
In general, “[t]he names of all
parties to a civil action must be included in the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 422.40.) That requirement extends to real parties in interest—anyone with a substantial
interest in the subject matter of the action. (Tracy Press, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1290, 1296–1297, 80 Cal.Rptr.3d 464.)”  (Department of Fair
Employment & Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105, 109.)  
To be consistent with the constitution, anonymity for parties must be
demonstrated to be necessary to protect an important privacy interest.  (Id. at 110.)  The Court of Appeal stated in the DFEH case:

[An]
important constitutional right is implicated when a party is allowed to proceed
anonymously: the right of public access to court proceedings. Among the
guarantees of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution is that
court proceedings are open and public. (Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v.
Virginia (1980) 448 U.S. 555, 580, 100 S.Ct. 2814, 65 L.Ed.2d 973.) Public
access to court proceedings is essential to a functioning democracy. It
promotes trust in the integrity of the court system, and it exposes abuses of judicial
power to public scrutiny. (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1221, 86 Cal.Rptr.2d 778, 980 P.2d 337 (KNBC).)
The right of public access applies not only to criminal cases, but also to
civil proceedings like this one. (Id. at p. 1222, 86 Cal.Rptr.2d 778,
980 P.2d 337.) And the right to access court proceedings necessarily
includes the right to know the identity of the parties. (Id. at p.
1211, 86 Cal.Rptr.2d 778, 980 P.2d 337 [public has a general right of access to
civil proceedings; by submitting a dispute to resolution in court, litigants
should anticipate the proceedings will be adjudicated in public].)
(DFEH, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at 110–111
[emphasis added].)  The Court further
stated:
Much
like closing the courtroom or sealing a court record, allowing a party to
litigate anonymously impacts the First Amendment public access right. Before a party to a
civil action can be permitted to use a pseudonym, the trial court must conduct
a hearing and apply the overriding interest test: A party's request for
anonymity should be granted only if the court finds that an overriding interest
will likely be prejudiced without use of a pseudonym, and that it is not
feasible to protect the interest with less impact on the constitutional right
of access.[] In deciding the issue the court must bear in mind the critical
importance of the public's right to access judicial proceedings. Outside of
cases where anonymity is expressly permitted by statute, litigating by
pseudonym should occur “only in the rarest of circumstances. (KNBC,
supra, 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1226, 86 Cal.Rptr.2d 778, 980 P.2d 337.)
(DFEH, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at 111–112 [internal quotation marks
and footnote omitted] [emphasis added].) 
While this case
involves a statutory conferral of anonymity, the legislature is not exempt from
the Constitution. At a minimum, there must be a demonstrated need to restrict
such access.  This is plainly stated in
the Constitution of the State of California: 
A statute, court rule, or other
authority, including those in effect on the effective date of this subdivision,
shall be broadly construed if it furthers the people’s right of access, and
narrowly construed if it limits the right of access. A statute, court rule, or
other authority adopted after the effective date of this subdivision that
limits the right of access shall be adopted with findings demonstrating the
interest protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest.
(Cal. Const.,
Art. I, § 3(b)(2).)  Here, there is no need to
restrict the public’s knowledge of accusations of child sexual abuse. There is
no rational basis by which the legislature could possibly be justified in
providing anonymity to persons accused of childhood sexual abuse, or persons
making such accusations.  There is no
need to limit the public’s access. Such anonymity can only perpetuate the
secret nature of childhood sexual abuse, with the result that more abuse will
occur. Even if there were a need for anonymity in specific cases, allowing
anonymity of all plaintiffs and persons accused of childhood sexual abuse in
civil courts is not a narrowly drawn limitation on the public’s right to know. 
            A
recent law article by Eugene Volokh discusses these concerns further: 
Public naming of litigants is one aspect of the
broader "presumption, long supported by courts, that the public has a
common-law right of access to judicial records." []"Public access to
civil trials ... provides information leading to a better understanding of the
operation of government as well as confidence in and respect for our judicial
system." []In particular, the right to public access "protects the
public's ability to oversee and monitor the workings of the Judicial Branch,"
[]and "promotes the institutional integrity of the Judicial Branch."
[]""Public confidence [in the judiciary] cannot long be maintained
where important judicial decisions are made behind closed doors and then
announced in conclusive terms to the public, with the record supporting the
court's decision sealed from public view.'"[]
(Eugene Volokh, The Law of Pseudonymous
Litigation, 73 Hastings L.J. 1353, 1386 (2021-2022) [footnotes
omitted].)  In citing various Circuit
Court cases, the article continues: 
"The public[]" has a "legitimate interest in knowing all of
the facts involved, including the identities of the parties." []"The
people have a right to know who is
using their courts." []"Anonymous litigation runs contrary to the
rights of the public to have open judicial proceedings and to know who is using
court facilities and procedures funded by public taxes." [] "The
Court is a public institution and the public has a right to look over our
shoulders and see who is seeking relief in public court." []
(Pseudonymous
Litigation, 73 Hastings L.J. at 1369-70 [footnotes
omitted].)  Professor Volokh further
stated that pseudonymization can lead to possibly
pseudonymizing the name of others (such as a minor’s parent and other parties)
or even other cases; redactions and sealings of documents filed in the court
and sealing of related cases; interference with reporting on cases; making it
difficult to determine whether a party is a vexatious litigant or a judge is
biased in favor of or against a litigant; and affecting a defendant’s ability
to test credibility and rebut a plaintiff’s claims of damages.  (Id. at 1370-1378, 1386.)  In addition, 
Pseudonymity can also create a "risk of unfairness to the opposing
party," []even when … the defendant knows the plaintiff's identity. …
Fundamental fairness suggests that defendants are prejudiced when required to
defend themselves publicly before a jury while plaintiffs make accusations from behind a cloak of anonymity.
(Pseudonymous Litigation, 73 Hastings
L.J. at 1379-80 [footnotes omitted].) 
For example, plaintiffs’ pseudonymity may make it hard for defendants to
defend themselves in public and may create an imbalance in settlement
negotiation positions as a named defendant would be more eager to settle than a
pseudonymous plaintiff. (Id. at 1380-1382.) 
            As stated by the Court of Appeal in Department
of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105: 
Much
like closing the courtroom or sealing a court record, allowing a party to
litigate anonymously impacts the First Amendment public access right. Before a
party to a civil action can be permitted to use a pseudonym, the trial court
must conduct a hearing and apply the overriding interest test: A party's
request for anonymity should be granted only if the court finds that an
overriding interest will likely be prejudiced without use of a pseudonym, and
that it is not feasible to protect the interest with less impact on the
constitutional right of access.[] In deciding the issue the court must bear in
mind the critical importance of the public's right to access judicial
proceedings. Outside of cases where anonymity is expressly permitted by
statute, litigating by pseudonym should occur “only in the rarest of
circumstances.”
(Department
of Fair Employment and Housing, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at 111-112 [footnote omitted].)  In the NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178 case, the California Supreme Court discussed that before closing
substantive courtroom proceedings and sealing documents, the trial court must
hold a hearing and expressly find that: (i) there
exists an overriding[] interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (ii) there
is a substantial probability[] that the interest will be prejudiced absent
closure and/or sealing; (iii) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly
tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (iv) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest.[]”  (KNBC-TV, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 1217-18
[footnotes omitted].)  
            Based on these factors, the Court
cannot justify allowing defendants to proceed anonymously in this action.  As summarized above, John Doe opposes the
request to reveal his name on the basis that Plaintiff’s request is premature because, he says, there are no known
facts to corroborate her allegations against John Doe at this time. He also
argues that he is a public figure such that irreparable harm to his character
and reputation may ensure such that it would be reasonable to maintain his
confidentiality until after discovery.  However,
John Doe has not provided any admissible evidence or other factual support for
his claims. He has not explained or shown that the case is without merit, as he
contends. John Doe has not explained how his status as a public figure affords
him additional rights to maintain the confidentiality of his name or shield his
identity. Celebrities must suffer the same embarrassment of accusation as
regular people. Here, there is no overriding interest requiring that any party
remain anonymous. Ms. Dylan has never sought such anonymity for herself—she is
ready to subject herself to the embarrassment and stress of a public trial. 
Moreover, there
is an important public interest in knowing the names of anyone accused of
childhood sexual assault as well as the names of the accuser so that those
claims can be fairly evaluated and handled. The records of the Catholic Church
and the Boy Scouts of America and other organizations that have cared for
children show the tragic folly of attempting to suppress evidence of such
accusations. Why should the Courts, which have imposed crippling judgments
against these organizations, follow the same procedures they have condemned?
When such accusations occur, both the accuser and accused should be identified by
their true names so that the accusations can be proven or disproven in an open
and fair court proceeding.
Thus, the Court
does not find that there is an overriding interest supporting anonymity in
Defendants’ true names or that there is a substantial probability that
Defendants’ interests will be prejudiced if their true names are revealed.  Rather, the Court upholds the constitutional
right of access by the public of all court proceedings, which includes knowing
the name of all parties in an action.  (KNBC-TV, supra, 20 Cal.4th
at 1210; Department of Fair Employment and Housing,
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at 109-112.)  
The
Court set this OSC so that Defendants would have the opportunity to show why
their true names should not be revealed. 
John Doe has not shown good cause or any overriding interest to maintain
his anonymity in defending this case. 
Private School Doe has not filed any responsive brief to the OSC.  As such, the presumption of the openness of
the court shall prevail and the parties shall no longer appear in this case
anonymously.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Plaintiff John Doe’s ex parte
application pursuant to CCP § 340.1 for an order to name Doe Defendants is
denied. 
            With respect to the Order to Show
Cause, the Court holds that Defendant John Doe and Private School Doe shall
proceed with this case with their true names upon entry of this order. The
Plaintiff may amend the Complaint to disclose their true names.   
Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
DATED: 
August 2, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 


