 Case Number:  23BBCV00397    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
kevin
  hudson, jr.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
valentin
  bazeekian, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00397
 
  Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer; and motion to compel further
  responses  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Kevin Hudson, Jr. (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that he is the biological son of Decedent Kevin Hudson, Sr.
(“Decedent”), who died in a vehicular collision on December 2, 2021.  Plaintiff alleges that on December 2, 2021 at
around 5:00 a.m., Defendant Valentin Bazeekian (“Bazeekian”) was operating a
2007 Lexus RX400H vehicle southbound on the #1 lane on the Interstate 5 Freeway
in Los Angeles County.  He alleges that Decedent
was operating his 2021 Mazda CX-30 vehicle southbound on the #1 lane on the
Interstate 5 Freeway just prior to and at the time of the incident.  Plaintiff alleges that a vehicle owned by
Defendant Security Paving Company, Inc. (“Security”), operated by Defendant
Mario Rene Cruz Zeleda (“Zeleda”), under the supervision of Defendant
California Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”) was driving in the #1 lane
at 5mph working alongside its workers to pick up and/or work on signs within
the center median.  Plaintiff alleges
that just prior to the accident, Decedent slowed his vehicle behind the
construction vehicle as he prepared to maneuver around the vehicle, but
Bazeekian failed to slow down or otherwise perceive the 2 vehicles in front of
her and caused a collision with Decedent’s vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that as result of
Bazeekian’s negligent operation of her vehicle, she rear-ended Decedent’s
vehicle, causing a significant motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of
Bazeekian’s, Security’s, and Zeleda’s negligent operation of their vehicles, as
well as Defendants Mazda Motor of America, Inc. and The Hertz Corporation’s
failings, Decedent succumbed to his fatal injuries.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
October 2, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) wrongful death – negligence
against Defendants Bazeekian, Security, Mario Cruz Rene Zeleda, Mazda, and
Hertz; (2) wrongful death – dangerous condition of public property against
Defendants State of California, CHP, and Caltrans; (3) strict products
liability – manufacturing defect against Mazda and Hertz; (4) strict products
liability – design defect against Mazda and Hertz; (5) strict products
liability – failure to warn against Mazda and Hertz; and (6) breach of the implied
warranty of merchantability against Mazda and Hertz.  
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff named Mazda
Motor of America, Inc. as Doe 1; and The Hertz Corporation as Doe 2. 
On March 27, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice the 2nd cause of action for wrongful death –
dangerous condition of public property only against Defendants Security Paving
Company, Inc. and Mario Rene Cruz Zeleda only. 
On June 2, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice the following parties from the complaint: State of
California, California Highway Patrol, California Department of Transportation,
and California State Transportation Agency. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints 
On August 11,
2023, Charlotte Brazile, individually as successor in interest to the Estate of
Kevin Anthony Hudson, filed a cross-complaint against Valentin Bazeekian,
Mazda, and Hertz for: (1) negligence; (2) negligence per se; (3) strict
products liability – manufacturing defect strict products; (4) strict products
liability – design defect; (5) strict products liability – failure to warn; (6)
breach of implied warranty; (7) wrongful death; and (8) survivorship. 
On October 13, 2023, Mazda Motor of
America, Inc. dba Mazda North American Operation (“Mazda”) filed the
cross-complaint against Roes 101 through 200 for: (1) implied contractual
indemnity; (2) equitable indemnity; (3) apportionment; (4) contribution; and
(5) declaratory relief.  On October 23,
2023, Mazda named Shaheen Zadori as Roe 101; and Sev Trucking, LLC as Roe
102.  On February 2, 2024, Mazda
dismissed without prejudice the cross-complaint against Sev Trucking, LLC
only.  On March 4, 2024, Mazda named
Traffix Devices, Inc. as Roe 103.  
On November 3, 2023, The Hertz Corporation
(“Hertz”) filed a cross-complaint against Valentin Bazeekian, Mario Rene Cruz
Zeleda, Security Paving Company, Inc., and Mazda for: (1) indemnification; (2)
apportionment of fault; and declaratory relief. 

On December 12, 2023, The State of
California acting by and through The Department of Transportation (erroneously
sued and served as California Department of Transportation) (“DOT”) filed a
cross-complaint against Valentin Bazeekian, Security Paving Company, Inc., and Mazda
for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) express indemnity; (3) express indemnity; (4)
declaratory relief; and (5) implied equitable indemnity and comparative
contribution.  
C.    
Motions on Calendar 
On May 20, 2024, Traffix Devices, Inc.
(“Traffix”) filed a demurrer to Mazda’s cross-complaint.  On June 27, 2024, Mazda filed an opposition
brief.  On July 26, 2024, Traffix filed a
reply brief. 
On June 2, 2024, Mazda filed a single motion
to compel Charlotte Brazile’s further response to: (1) special interrogatories,
set two (“SROG”) and (2) requests for production of documents, set two
(“RPD”).   On July 24, 2024, Brazile
filed an opposition brief.  On July 25,
2024, Mazda filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION RE
DEMURRER
            Traffix
demurs to each cause of action alleged in Mazda’s cross-complaint 
A.    1st cause of action for implied contractual indemnity and 2nd
cause of action for equitable indemnity 
Traffix demurs to
the 1st cause of action, arguing that it is duplicative of the 2nd
cause of action for equitable indemnity. 
The California
Supreme Court addressed this issue in Prince v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151,
1157, wherein it stated: 
In general, indemnity refers to
“the obligation resting on one party to make good a loss or damage another
party has incurred.”  [Citation.] Historically, the obligation of
indemnity took three forms: (1) indemnity expressly provided for by contract
(express indemnity); (2) indemnity implied from a contract not specifically
mentioning indemnity (implied contractual indemnity); and (3) indemnity arising
from the equities of particular circumstances (traditional equitable indemnity). [Citations.] 
Although the foregoing categories of indemnity
were once regarded as distinct, we now recognize there are
only two basic types of indemnity: express indemnity and equitable indemnity. [Citation.]
Though not extinguished, implied contractual
indemnity is now viewed simply as “a form of equitable indemnity.”
(Prince, supra, 45 Cal.4th at 1157 [underline added for emphasis].)  
In the 1st
cause of action, Mazda alleges that Cross-Defendants were solely or
contributorily negligent in causing Plaintiffs’ injuries, such that
Cross-Defendants are obligated to partially or fully indemnify Mazda.  (XC, ¶12.) 
Mazda makes similar allegations in the 2nd cause of
action.  (Id., ¶15.)   Here, the causes of action are
duplicative.  The demurrer to the 1st
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend, but Mazda may allege any
facts in the 1st cause of action into the 2nd cause of
action for equitable indemnity. 
In addition,
Traffix argues that there are no facts alleged against it such that it is
unclear what is being alleged against it. 

Equitable indemnity does not require a
contractual relationship between an indemnitor and an indemnitee, but is rather
premised on a joint legal obligation to another for damages.  (Prince
v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1158.)   “Equitable indemnity principles govern the
allocation of loss or damages among multiple tortfeasors whose liability for
the underlying injury is joint and several.” 
(Expressions at Rancho Niguel Ass'n v. Ahmanson Developments,
Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139.)  
As currently
alleged, both the 1st and 2nd causes of action fail to
allege facts against Traffix regarding the basis for liability under equitable
indemnity.  Further facts should be
alleged upon amendment. 
The demurrer to
the 1st cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  The demurrer to the 2nd cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 

B.     3rd
cause of action for apportionment and 4th cause of action for
contribution
Traffix demurs
to the 3rd and 4th causes of action, arguing that Mazda
has not alleged any facts to support an apportionment cause of action.  
In the 3rd
cause of action, Mazda alleges that Cross-Defendants were responsible, in whole
or in part, for the injuries sustained in the incident by Plaintiffs.  (XC, ¶19.) 
Mazda seeks a declaration and judgment with respect to the portions of
negligence, fault, and/or other liability of Cross-Defendants.  (Id., ¶20.)  In the 4th cause of
action, Mazda alleges that Cross-Defendants were responsible, in whole or in
part, for Plaintiff’s injuries as a result of the incident, such that Mazda is
entitled to contribution from Cross-Defendants. 
(Id., ¶¶22-23.)  
 
The allegations
are devoid of any facts against Traffix. 
The cross-complaint fails to allege what role Traffix played in the
events leading up to or during the accident, Traffix’s role, etc.  The 3rd and 4th causes
of action merely allege the elements of apportionment and contribution without
supporting facts.  As such, the demurrer
to the 3rd and 4th causes of action are sustained with
leave to amend.  
C.     5th
cause of action for declaratory relief 
Mazda demurs to
the 5th cause of action, arguing that it is duplicative of the prior
causes of action and there would be no need for an additional cause of
action.  
“Any person interested under a written
instrument … or under a contract, or … in, over or upon property… may in cases
of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint … for a declaration of his
or her rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any
question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or
contract.”  (CCP § 1060.)  Declaratory relief is allowed if the seeking
party presents two essential elements: “(1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to [the party's] rights or obligations.” 
(Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) 
“Declaratory relief generally operates prospectively to declare future
rights, rather than to redress past wrongs” and is a remedy in the interests of
“... preventative justice, to declare rights rather than execute them.”  (Id.;
Babb v. Superior Court (1971) 3 Cal.3d
841, 848.) “Permission to resort to declaratory relief is a matter of sound
discretion of the court. Such an action is usually unnecessary where an
adequate remedy exists under some other form of action….”  (Pacific Elec. Ry. Co. v. Dewey
(1949) 95 Cal.App.2d 69, 71.)  
In the 5th cause of action,
Mazda alleges that a controversy has arisen between Mazda and Cross-Defendants,
whereby Mazda contends that Cross-Defendants must assume the defense of Mazda
and/or pay for the defense of Mazda for Plaintiffs’ action and that Mazda is
entitled to indemnity and/or contribution. 
(XC, ¶25.)  
At this time, the Court declines to
sustain the demurrer to this cause of action on the basis that it could be
duplicative of the other causes of action. 
A declaratory relief cause of action seeks the declaration of rights
between the parties, which is somewhat distinguishable from the other causes of
action.  The Court notes that this is the
only basis upon which Mazda demurs to the 5th cause of action in the
demurrer papers.
Traffix also argues that because the prior
causes of action fail to allege sufficient facts against it, the declaratory
relief cause of action also fails as there are no facts alleged against
Traffix.  For the reasons discussed
above, the Court will sustain the demurrer to the 5th cause of
action with leave to amend so that Mazda may allege further facts regarding
what role Traffix played in the subject incident.  
The demurrer to the 5th cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend. 

DISCUSSION RE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
            Mazda
moves to compel Brazile’s further responses to SROG Nos. 74, 76-84, and 86-102
and RPD Nos. 30-38.   
A.   
Single Motion 
Mazda filed a single motion to compel
further responses to the SROG and RPD. 
The motion to compel further responses to written discovery is improper
because Mazda seeks several types of discovery orders in one motion, i.e., an
order under CCP § 2030.300 to compel further responses to interrogatories and
an order under CCP § 2031.310 to compel further responses to requests for
production.  
As Mazda has not filed separate motions
nor paid the additional filing fees on the motions, the Court will only
consider the merits of the motion to compel Brazile’s further responses to the
SROG.  If Mazda intends to move forward
with the motion to compel further responses as to the RPD, Mazda is ordered to
pay additional filing fees.  
The Court will consider the merits of the
SROG motion and continue the hearing on the RPD motion so that Mazda may pay
filing fees.  
B.     Merits of the SROG Motion
Mazda seeks
further responses from Brazile regarding real property.  SROG No. 74 asks Brazile to identify all owners of the property located at 9191
Redwood Blvd., California City in Kern County (“Property”).  SROG No. 76 asks Brazile about the monthly mortgage payment for the Property.  SROG No. 77 asks for the identity of the person(s) responsible for paying the
monthly mortgage.  SROG No. 78 asks Brazile to
identify all documents related to the purchase of the Property.  SROG Nos. 87-89 ask Brazile: (87) to identify all persons who currently reside at the
Property; (88) if she receives rent from any individuals who reside at the
Property; and (89) to state the amount of rental income she receives.
To SROG Nos. 74
and 76-78, Brazile objected that the SROGs lacked foundation, called for
speculation, invaded her financial privacy, called for an expert opinion, and
were not relevant to the action nor to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  She argues that she has a
privacy right into her finances as an individual and the entire universe of her
finances should not be revealed.  To SROG
Nos. 87-89, Brazile objected that the SROGs lacked foundation and were not
relevant to the action.  Mazda argues
that Brazile has made claims for economic damages for loss of financial support
and other economic entitlements, such that her financial status is relevant to
this action, as she claims she was wholly reliant on Decedent financially at
the time of his death.  Mazda also argues
that there have been questions about Hudson’s alleged marriage to Brazile, such
that information about the ownership of the Property, payments on the mortgage,
sources of income, her living situation, her personal expenses, etc. are relevant
to this action.  
 “[I]ndividuals have a legally recognized
privacy interest in their personal financial information.”  (International
Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers, Local 21, AFL-CIO v. Sup.
Ct. (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 319, 330.)  “The
constitutional right of privacy does not provide absolute protection against
disclosure of personal information; rather it must be balanced against the
countervailing public interests in disclosure.” 
(Hooser v. Superior Court (2000)
84 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004 disapproved on other grounds by Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)  While
there is a recognized privacy interest in Brazile’s personal financial
information, she has put her finances and the finances of Decedent at issue in
this case, in part, by her allegations seeking damages as a result of
Decedent’s death.  In Brazile’s cross-complaint, she alleges
that she is the successor-in-interest and wife of Decedent, and she has been
damaged by the loss of comfort and companionship and the loss of
earning/earning capacity/household services of Decedent.  (Brazile XC, ¶¶77, 79.)  
In Mazda’s
separate statement, Mazda argues that Decedent’s son and brother were not aware
of his marriage to Brazile at the time of his death and that the Property was
purchased by Decedent in 2015 as his sole and separate property.  It is unclear if she resided at the Property
with Decedent prior to or at the time of his death.  Nevertheless, there may be some relevance to
SROG Nos. 74, and 76-78 in that they may be a source of Decedent’s income that
Brazile may be entitled to or may lose out on as a result of Decedent’s
death.  While Brazile objects on the
basis of her financial privacy, it appears that the interrogatories seek
information about Decedent’s financial information.  As such, the motion is granted as to SROG
Nos. 74, 76-78, and 87-89.  
Mazda seeks
further responses from Brazile regarding her income, her personal vehicle, and
her phone bills.  SROG Nos. 79-81 ask Brazile:
(79) to state her monthly income; (80) to identify all sources of her income;
and (81) to identify all financial institutions with whom she has a banking
relationship.  SROG Nos. 82-84 ask Brazil:
(82) to identify the make and model of her personal vehicle; (83) if she has
any monthly car payments; and (84) if she has monthly car payments, to state
the amount of the monthly payment.  SROG No. 86 asks Brazile to
state the amount of her monthly cell phone bills.
To SROG Nos. 79-84,
Brazile objected that the SROGs lacked foundation, called for speculation,
invaded her financial privacy, and were not relevant to the action nor to the
discovery of admissible evidence; she also argued that she was not making a
loss of earnings claim as a result of the incident.  Mazda argues that Brazile has made claims for
economic damages for lost earnings or earning capacity in her cross-complaint
at paragraph 79.  However, paragraph 79
alleges in full: “Cross-Complainant
is also entitled to recover her pecuniary losses in the form of the lost
earnings or earning capacity and/or loss of household services which Decedent
would have contributed to Cross-Complainant had his life not been lost at the
hands of Cross-Defendants.”  Thus, the
loss of earnings is not related to her personal loss of earnings potential
is not at issue in this action.  Rather,
the amount of earnings by Decedent are what is at issue in this action.  Thus, the motion as to SROG Nos. 79-84 is
denied.  
            Lastly, Mazda seeks further
responses regarding Decedent Kevin Hudson. 
SROG Nos. 90-93 ask Brazile to state: (90) the make, model,
and year of all vehicles owned by Decedent; (91) the current locations of all
vehicles owned by Decedent; (92) all other real property owned by Decedent; and
(93) all financial institutions with whom Decedent had a banking relationship,
at the time of his death.  SROG Nos. 94-96 ask Brazile: (94) if she shared any bank accounts with Decedent; (95) to
identify all bank accounts she shared with Decedent; and (96) identify the
primary beneficiary of Decedent’s estate, at the time of his death.  SROG
Nos. 97-101 ask Brazile: (97) if
Decedent had any life insurance policies in force at the time of his death; (98)
if she received any proceeds from life insurance following his death; (99) to
state the total amount of proceeds received; (100) if she anticipates receiving
insurance proceeds following his death; and (101) to identify the insurance
companies for each life insurance policy in force at the time of his
death.  SROG No. 102 asks Brazile
to identify all beneficiaries of Decedent’s estate at the time of his
death.  
            To
Nos. 90-93, Brazile objected that the SROG lacked foundation and called for
speculation but also responded: “[D]espite a
diligent search and reasonable inspection, Plaintiff does not possess the
requisite information to respond to this interrogatory. Discovery and
investigation are ongoing. Plaintiff therefore reserves the right to amend this
response at any time.”  To provide a
response that is fully compliant with CCP § 2030.220(c), Brazile should respond
as follows: “If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”  Thus, a further response will be warranted to
this limited extent with respect to SROG Nos. 90-93.  
            To
Nos. 94-102, Brazile objected that the SROGs lacked foundation, called for
speculation, invaded her financial privacy, and sought information privileged
under the collateral source rule.  While
Brazile claims a privilege based on her financial privacy, she has put some of
her financial privacy at issue in this action by seeking loss of earning claims
in relation to Decedent.  Thus, the bank
accounts she has shared with Decedent are arguably relevant to this action and
may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  With respect to the collateral source rule,
while certain evidence may not be admitted at trial, the information may still
be discoverable under the broad rules of discovery prior to trial.  As such, the motion is granted as to SROG
Nos. 94-102.  
C.     Sanctions 
            Mazda did not request sanctions in
the moving papers.  
Brazile requests sanctions in the amount
of $2,700 for filing the opposition brief. 
In light of the ruling on the motion, the Court declines to award
sanctions to Brazile. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
Mazda Motor of America, Inc. dba Mazda North American Operation’s motion to
compel Defendant/Cross-Complainant Charlotte Brazile’s further responses to the
Special Interrogatories, set two, Nos. 74,
76-78, and 87-102 is granted.  The motion
is denied as to SROG Nos. 79-84.  Brazile
is ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this
order.  
            The
motion to compel further responses to the Request for Production of Documents
is continued to August 23, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. 
Mazda is ordered to pay an additional filing fee by the end of the
business day on August 12, 2024 if it intends to go forward with the
motion.  If proof of filing fees is not
submitted by the end of the business day on August 12, 2024, the motion with
respect to the Request for Production of Documents will be taken
off-calendar.  No further briefing will
be permitted on the motion to compel further responses as to the Request for
Production of Documents.  
            Cross-Defendant
Traffix Devices, Inc.’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant Mazda Motor of America,
Inc. dba Mazda North American Operation’s cross-complaint is sustained without
leave to amend as to the 1st cause of action; and sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the 2nd to 5th causes of action.
 
Each moving party shall provide notice of their
respective order. 
 
 
DATED: August 2, 2024                                            ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 