 Case Number:  23BBCV01894    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
brandon edward
  bourgeois,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01894
 
Hearing
  Date:  August 2, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Brandon Edward Bourgeois (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on April 4, 2020, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contact with
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding a 2020 Ford Escape vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that the warranty contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to the
bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty, etc.  Plaintiff alleges that the defects and
nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves during the applicable
warranty period, including but not limited to, engine defects, transmission
defects, infotainment defects, and electrical defects, among other defects and
non-conformities.  Plaintiff alleges that
FMC failed to promptly replace the vehicle or make restitution.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he delivered the vehicle to Defendant Star Ford Lincoln
Mercury (“Star”) for substantial repair on at least one
occasion, but Star failed to use ordinary care and skill to properly store,
prepare, and repair the subject vehicle. 

The complaint, filed August 16, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(D); (2) violation
of Civil Code, § 1793.2(B); (3) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(A)(3); (4)
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civil Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794,
and 1795.5); and (5) negligent repair. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 9, 2024, Defendants Ford Motor
Company (“FMC”) and Star Ford Lincoln Mercury (“Star”) filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Special Interrogatories, set one (“SROG”).  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCLOSURE
AND ORDER
Prior to ruling on the motion(s), the
Court makes the following disclosure: 
John Kralik was an associate of the Law
Firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed from 1979-1987 and a partner in Hughes
Hubbard & Reed from 1988-1993. During that time he worked on Ford Motor
Company matters, principally on products liability cases from 1976 (when he was
a summer associate) until 1987. Ford was a major client during his partnership
with the firm, and so some portion of his partner draw would have originated
with Ford. The Court does not feel that it is biased in this matter as the
result of this long-ago legal representation but recognizes that the parties
may have a different perception. If any party feels that the Court’s prior work
at Hughes Hubbard creates an appearance of bias, please file an appropriate
request for the Court to recuse prior to the next hearing in this matter. It is
not necessary to file a peremptory challenge under CCP 170.6. 
The parties are ordered to attend the
hearing.  Prior to the hearing, counsel
should discuss with their clients whether they would like this case to proceed
in this Department.  If the parties have
objections, they should be raised at the hearing so that the Court may take
appropriate steps to recuse itself from the action and transfer the case. 
If the parties are willing to waive these
issues, then the Court will continue the hearing on the motion to compel
further responses to August 30, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  No further briefing will be permitted on the
motion. 
Defendants shall provide notice of this
order.  
 
 
DATED: August 2,
2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   