 Case Number:  24STCV11609    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Monday, August 8, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV11609
CASE NAME:                        Andreas Jung, et al. v. Adam Acosta, et al. 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Special Motion to Strike
(CCP, § 425.16.) and Demurrer to Complaint
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Adam Acosta
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Andras Jung and Maribel
Alvarenga
OPPOSITION:                        26 July 2024
REPLY:                                  1
August 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Acosta’s special motion to strike is denied and the
demurrer is continued. Defendant Acosta is ordered to file a declaration
showing compliance with the meet and confer requirement. 

                                                                                                                                                

PROCEEDING:                      Special Motion to Strike (CCP, §
425.16.)
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Jeffrey C. Bigelow;
Manuel Corral, Diana Corral, and Henry Gambill. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Andras Jung and Maribel
Alvarenga
OPPOSITION:                        26 July 2024
REPLY:                                  1
August 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ special motion to strike is
denied. Defendants to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                    

 
Background
 
On May 8, 2024, Andreas Jung
(“Jung”) and Maribel Alvarenga (“Alvarenga”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”), filed
a Complaint against Adam Acosta, Jeffrey C. Bigelow (“Bigelow”); Manny Corral
(“M. Corral”); Diana Corral (“D. Corral”); Henry Gambill (“Gambill”)
(collectively “Defendants’); and Does 1 to 100. 
 
The Complaint alleges the
following ten causes of action for: 
1)    
Breach of Contract (by Plaintiff Jung against
Defendant Acosta);
2)    
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing (by Plaintiff Jung against Defendant Acosta);
3)    
Breach of Contract – Third Party Beneficiary (by
Plaintiff Alvarenga against Adam Acosta);
4)    
Conspiracy to Breach of Contract (against all
Defendants); 
5)    
Intentional Inference with Contract (Plaintiff
Junga against Defendants Bigelow, M. Corral, D. Corral, and Gambill.)
6)    
Intentional Interference with Economic Relations
(Plaintiff Alvarenga against all Defendants); 
7)    
Intentional Inference with Prospective Economic
Advantage (Plaintiff Alvarenga against all Defendants);
8)    
Fraud – Promise Made without Intention to
Perform (Plaintiff Jung against Defendant Acosta.) 
9)    
Fraud – Suppression of Fact Perform (Plaintiff
Jung against Defendant Acosta); and 
10) Conspiracy
to Commit Fraud (against all Defendants). 
 
On June 13, 2024, Defendants
Jeffrey C. Bigelow; Manuel Corral, Diana Corral, and Henry Gambill (hereinafter
“Defendants”) filed a Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16. Defendant
Acosta filed a joiner to the Motion. 
 
On July 15, 2024, Defendant Acosta
filed a Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16 and a demurrer to the
Complaint
 
Plaintiff opposes all Motions. The
matter is now before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
CCP § 425.16 sets forth the
procedure governing anti-SLAPP motions.¿ In pertinent part, the statute
provides: “A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that
person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under
the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection
with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the
court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability
that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (CCP § 425.16(b)(1).) “[A]n
anti-SLAPP motion, like a conventional motion to strike, may be used to attack
parts of a count as pleaded.” (Baral v. Schnitt¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
393.) The purpose of the statute is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought
to chill the valid exercise of a litigant’s constitutional right of petition or
free speech. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (a); Sylmar Air Conditioning
v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049,
1055-1056.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Courts employ a two-step process
to evaluate anti-SLAPP motions. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61 (Equilon).) To invoke the statute's
protections, the defendant must first show that the challenged lawsuit arises
from protected activity, such as an act in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech. (Ibid.) From this fact, courts “‘presume the purpose of
the action was to chill the defendant’s exercise of First Amendment rights.¿ It
is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.’” (Ibid.) In determining whether
the plaintiff has carried this burden, the trial court considers “the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.” (CCP, § 425.16(b)(2); see Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291 (Soukup).)¿¿¿ 
 
dEFENDANT
aDAM ACOSTA’S ANTI-SLAPP MOTION
 
I.         Discussion
 
Defendant Acosta filed this special
motion to strike because he asserts that even if the allegations in the
Complaint are true, they arise from protected activity because they were made
in connection to an official proceeding and matters of public interest. 
 
The Complaint alleges that on
August 8, 2019, Defendant Acosta sued his former employer, District Counsel 36
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFL-CIO)
(hereinafter “DC 36”), Vice-President Rodney Fowler and DC 26 President,
Plaintiff Jung in the LASC Case No. 19STCV28149 entitled Acosta v. DC 36.
(Compl., ¶ 36.) The Parties, including Acosta, Jung, and DC 36, all agreed to
mediate the matter. (Compl., ¶ 12.) 
 
The Parties, through their counsels
of record, signed the Mediation Confidentiality Agreement (“MCA”) on May 23, 2021,
when the mediation began. (Compl., ¶¶ 12, 14, Ex. A.) The Complaint alleges
that as part of the mediation, Acosta submitted a mediation brief that
contained text messages between Jung and Alvarenga that were produced as part
of the discovery in the underlying litigation. (Compl., ¶ 13.) The mediation
resulted in the Confidential Settlement Agreement (“CSA”) signed on or about
July 14, 2021, by Acosta, DC 26, Jung, and Fowler. (Compl. ¶ 15.) 
 
The Complaint alleges that after signing
the MCA, Acosta contacted Defendant Bigelow, provided Bigelow with a copy of
the mediation brief and its exhibits, and falsely represented that the materials
were non-confidential. (Compl., ¶ 29.) The Complaint further asserts that after
entering into the CSA, Acosta discussed the settlement with Bigelow. (Compl., ¶
30.) 
 
Bigelow then provided a copy of
the mediation brief to the other Defendants, which was then used to draft
charges under the AFL-CIO (AFSCME) International Constitution to expel
Plaintiff Jung from union membership and terminate Plaintiff Alvarenga. (Compl,
¶¶ 30-32.) Plaintiffs were presented with the charges against them and on May
5, 2022, the AFSCME Judicial Panel hearing officer rendered a decision and
removed Jung from his office as President of DC 36 and ordered Alvarenga’s
termination. (Compl., ¶ 36.) Plaintiffs appealed to the AFSCME Judicial Panel, but
the appeal was denied on June 8, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 38.) 
 
On May 8, 2024, the Plaintiffs
brought this action in relation to the Defendants’ breach of the MCA and the
CSA. Defendant Acosta along with the other Defendants now seek to strike the
Complaint pursuant to CCP § 425.16. 
 
A.        Timeliness of Motions 
 
CCP § 425.16(f) states:  
 
The special
motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint or, in the
court’s discretion, at any later time upon terms it deems proper. The motion
shall be scheduled by the clerk of the court for a hearing not more than 30
days after the service of the motion unless the docket conditions of the court
require a later hearing. 
 
Plaintiffs
assert Defendants’ Motions are untimely. Even if Defendants’ Motions are
untimely, section 425.15 “vests the trial court with discretion to entertain an
anti–SLAPP motion proffered after expiration of the 60–day period.” (Hewlett-Packard
Co. v. Oracle Corp. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1187.)  The
Court exercises its discretion to consider this anti-SLAPP motion.
 
B.        Step
1: Does Defendants Alleged Wrongful Conduct Arise for a Protected Activity? 
 
“In ruling on a defendant's anti-SLAPP
motion, the trial court engages in a two-step analysis.” (Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88.) First, the court determines “whether the
defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is
one arising from protected activity,” which includes the defendants’ right of
petition, or free speech, under a constitution, in connection with issues of
public interest. (Ibid; CCP, § 425.16.) “[T]he moving defendant must identify the acts
alleged in the complaint that it asserts are protected and what claims for
relief are predicated on them. In turn, a court should examine whether those
acts are protected and supply the basis for any claims.” (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) 
 
Defendant Acosta asserts: 
 
By giving a copy
of the Non-Confidential Mediation Brief to Mr. Bigelow prior to the execution
of the Confidential Mediation Agreement (“CMA”) and the Confidential Settlement
Agreement (“CSA”), Mr. Acosta was providing a written statement that would
eventually be used in connection with an official proceeding. This proceeding
was the AFSCME International Judicial Panel (“Judicial Panel”), an official
hearing mandated by federal law and the AFSCME International’s constitution.
 
(Acosta Anti-SLAPP, at p. 1:18-23.) In
Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106
(Briggs), the California Supreme Court found that “‘communications
preparatory or in anticipation of bringing an action or other official
proceeding’” are protected by section 425.16. (Id. at p. 115.)
 
At issue is whether the sharing of a
mediation brief is a protected activity if the disclosure is made in connection
to “an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law” or “any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of
free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.”
(CCP § 425.16(e).) The court finds that unless an exception applies, the
mediation privilege applies to prevent the disclosure of the mediation brief
even if the brief is disclosed in connection to an official proceeding concerning
the public interest. To hold otherwise, would be to create an
exception to the mediation privilege where none is provided. (See Foxgate
Homeowners' Ass'n, Inc. v. Bramalea California, Inc.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1, 15 [“To carry out the purpose of encouraging mediation by
ensuring confidentiality, the statutory scheme, which includes sections 703.5,
1119, and 1121, unqualifiedly bars disclosure of communications made during
mediation absent an express statutory exception.”].)
 
Defendant
Acosta asserts that the mediation brief was non-confidential because he
provided a copy of the brief before he signed the MCA on May 23, 2021. (Acosta
Decl., ¶ 2; see also Compl., Ex. 1.) “Mediation confidentiality is
to be applied where the writing, or statement would not have existed but for a
mediation communication, negotiation, or settlement discussion.” (Wimsatt v.
Superior Court (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 137, 160 (Wimsatt); see also
Evid. Code, § 1119.) The fact that the mediation brief was disclosed before the
start of mediation and before Acosta signed the MCA, does not make the
mediation brief non-confidential because the brief was produced in anticipation
of mediation and would not have exited but for the mediation. 
 
Evid.
Code § 1119 states: 
 
(a) No evidence of anything said or any admission
made for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a
mediation consultation is admissible or subject to discovery, and disclosure of
the evidence shall not be compelled, in any arbitration, administrative
adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in which, pursuant
to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.
 
(b) No writing, as defined in Section 250, that
is prepared for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation
or a mediation consultation, is admissible or subject to discovery, and
disclosure of the writing shall not be compelled, in any arbitration,
administrative adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in
which, pursuant to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.
 
(c) All communications, negotiations, or
settlement discussions by and between participants in the course of a mediation
or a mediation consultation shall remain confidential.


The mediation brief was not
produced during the regular course of litigation but pursuant to a mediation
and is therefore confidential and subject to the mediation privilege. There is no evidence supporting Acosta’s assertion that the mediation
brief was non-confidential. “Mediation briefs epitomize the types of
writings which the mediation confidentiality statutes have been designed to
protect from disclosure.” (Wimsatt, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p.
160, 158.) 
 
Mediation briefs are designed to facilitate an
open and frank dialogue with the hope that the case can be resolved in the
mediation. When written, the authors expect the briefs will always be kept
confidential and used only in mediation by the mediator and the parties. Thus,
mediation briefs are an integral part of the mediation process and are
“prepared for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or
a mediation consultation,” and are to remain confidential. (Evid.Code, § 1119,
subd. (b).)


(Id. at pp. 158-159.) 
 
Even in the absence of a
protective order, the mediation brief remained confidential, and the
confidentiality does not end merely because the mediation ended. (See Wimsatt,
supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 159.) 
 
By statute, “any writing that is inadmissible,
protected from disclosure, and confidential under” the mediation
confidentiality provisions “before a mediation ends, shall remain inadmissible,
protected from disclosure, and confidential to the same extent after the
mediation ends.” (§ 1126.)

(Rojas v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 407, 416.) Accordingly, it is
immaterial that Defendant Acosta asserts that disclosure of the mediation brief
occurred before the CSA became effective because the mediation brief was
confidential since it was made for the purpose of mediation. 
 
Defendant Acosta fails to cite
case law finding that mediation briefs are not confidential and are not protected
for disclosure if the brief is submitted in furtherance of a party’s right to
petition or as part of a judicial proceeding. On the contrary, the Evidence
Code is quite clear that the use of mediation materials is not permitted, even
if it is submitted to an adjudicative body: 
 
Neither a mediator nor anyone else may submit
to a court or other adjudicative body, and a court or other adjudicative body
may not consider, any report, assessment, evaluation, recommendation, or
finding of any kind by the mediator concerning a mediation conducted by the
mediator, other than a report that is mandated by court rule or other law
and that states only whether an agreement was reached, unless all parties to
the mediation expressly agree otherwise in writing, or orally in accordance
with Section 1118.
(Evid. Code, § 1121 [bold
added].) 
Defendant Acosta fails to show that disclosure of
the mediation brief was permissible because it occurred under one of the four
exceptions expressly outlined in Evid. Code section 1123. “The [California
Supreme Court] has refused to judicially create exceptions to the statutory
scheme, even in situations where justice seems to call for a different result.”
(Wimsatt, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 152.) “The Courts of
Appeal also strictly construe the mediation confidentiality statutes, even when
the equities in the case suggest contrary results.” (Id. at p. 155.) 
The Wimsatt Court
explained that the mediation confidentiality rule applied even in legal malpractice
suits because “when clients, such as Kausch, participate in mediation they are,
in effect, relinquishing all claims for new and independent torts arising from
mediation, including legal malpractice causes of action against their own
counsel.” (Wimsatt, supra, 152 Cal.Ap.4th at p. 163.) Therefore,
even if a party is engaging in a petitioning activity by filing a lawsuit, the
mediation privilege applies and prevents disclosures related to the mediation. “[T]he
parties and their attorneys should be warned of the unintended consequences of
agreeing to mediate a dispute. If they do not intend to be bound by the
mediation confidentiality statutes, then they should ‘make [it] clear at the
outset that something other than a mediation is intended.’ ” (Id. at p.
164.) 
 
Because the mediation privilege
applied, the mediation brief was confidential, and any disclosure of the brief
was a violation of privilege and was not protected activity as outlined in Evidence
Code § 1121. To hold that the mediation privilege must yield to disclosures
made in an official proceeding or made in furtherance of the right to petition
or the “constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue
or an issue of public interest” would create an exception to the mediation privilege
where none exits. 
 
Therefore, the court finds that
Defendant Acosta fails to show that this lawsuit arose out of a protected
activity. 
 
The mediation privilege does
not apply to documents or exhibits, such as text messages, produced as part of
discovery in the underlying litigation, provided that such evidence is not
subject to a protective order. (See Compl.,¶ 13.) “Thus, if parties use facts
in mediation, mediation confidentiality does not necessarily preclude
disclosure of those facts.” (Wimsatt, at p. 158.) “Under Evidence Code section 1120, a writing that is otherwise
admissible or subject to discovery outside of a mediation does not ‘become
inadmissible or protected from disclosure solely by reason of its introduction
or use in a mediation or a mediation consultation.’ ” (Lappe v. Superior
Court (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 774, 784
 
Defendant Acosta would not have violated the
mediation privilege if he had disclosed the contents of Plaintiffs’ text
messages and other evidence produced during discovery in the underlying
litigation. Moreover, the signing of the MCA precludes the finding that Acosta was
entitled to waive the confidentiality of his mediation brief. (See Evid. Code,
§ 1122(a)(2)[1].) Therefore, the disclosure of the mediation brief is a
violation of the mediation privilege, and the disclosure is not a protected
activity for the purpose of this Motion. 
Therefore, Defendant Acosta’s Special Motion to
Strike is denied. 
            C.        Plaintiff’s Reasonable Probability of Success on the Merits
Even if
the court found that this action arose from Defendant Acosta engaging in a
protected activity, Plaintiffs can show that they have a probability of
succeeding on the merits. 
“The
plaintiff need only establish that his or her claim has ‘minimal merit’
[citation] to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.” (Soukup, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) “The trial court merely determines whether a prima facie
showing has been made that would warrant the claim going forward.” (HMS
Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.¿(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.) “The
court considers the pleadings and evidence submitted by both sides but does not
weigh credibility or compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, the court's
responsibility is to accept as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff¿[citation] and evaluate the defendant's evidence only to determine if
it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.¿[Citation.]
The trial court merely determines whether a prima facie showing has been made
that would warrant the claim going forward.”¿(Id. at p. 212.)¿¿ 
Plaintiffs
can show that on May 23, 2021, Defendant Acosta signed the MCA, agreeing to
keep the contents of the mediation confidential. (Compl., Ex. 1; Plaintiffs’
Compendium of Evidence “PCOE” Ex. 2.) Plaintiffs further provide transcripts
from the AFSCME’s Judicial Panel hearing wherein Defendant Bigelow admits that
Defendant Acosta gave him the mediation brief. (PCOE Ex. 8 [02/09/22 Trans. at
p. 869:7-13]; Ex. 9 [03/08/22 Trans. at p. 1268:11-16].) Defendant Bigelow
believed the brief was nonconfidential because Acosta had told him it was not.
(PCOE Ex. 8 at p. 854:13-19.) Bigelow asserts that Acosta only shared the
brief, not other discovery produced in the underlying litigation. (PCOE Ex. 9
at p. 1240:6-9.) 
Bigelow
then shared the brief with the other Defendants and relied on Exhibit 4 of the
mediation brief to draft the charges against Plaintiffs. (PCOE Ex. 4 [mediation
brief]; Ex. 8 at  pp. 858:7-860:2; Ex. 9
at p. 1219:10-16.) Bigelow admitted that he knew the mediation brief was
specially prepared for mediation and contained a summary of the text messages
(Exhibit 4) that were part of the mediation brief. (PCOE Ex. 9 at p. 1236:2-14.)
The Declaration of Jeffry Bigelow further confirms that he reviewed a document
entitled “Non-Confidential Mediation Brief” that was provided by Defendant
Acosta, which included the text messages sent between Plaintiff Jung and
Plaintiff Alvarenga. (Bigelow Decl., ¶¶ 5-7) 
Furthermore, even if the MCA did not expressly state the
mediation brief was confidential, the mediation brief was nevertheless
protected from disclosure under the mediation privilege. “We have repeatedly
said that these confidentiality provisions are clear and absolute. Except in
rare circumstances, they must be strictly applied and do not permit judicially
crafted exceptions or limitations, even where competing public policies may be affected.”
(Cassel v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 113, 118.) 
 
With
specified statutory exceptions, neither “evidence of anything said,” nor any
“writing,” is discoverable or admissible “in any arbitration, administrative
adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in which ...
testimony can be compelled to be given,” if the statement was made, or the
writing was prepared, “for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a
mediation....” (Evid.Code, § 1119, subds. (a), (b).)
 
(Id. at p. 117.)
 
Under
the broad applicability of the mediation privilege, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have a reasonable probability of succeeding on the merits. To the
extent that Plaintiff Alvarenga asserts that under the Collective Bargaining
Agreement (“CBA”), the AFSCME International Constitution did not apply to her
as an employee of DC 36 and that the charges brought against her violated the
CBA, the court finds that the allegation is irrelevant because the Complaint
does not allege breach of the CBA. (See Alvarenga Decl., ¶ 4.)
The issue as framed by the pleadings and this Motion, is
whether the disclosure of the mediation brief to an adjudicative body was a
protected activity. As outlined above, the court finds it was not. Lastly,
in ruling on the merits of this Motion, the court declines to consider whether
Plaintiff Alvarenga lacks standing to sue because she is not a third-party
beneficiary to the CMA or CSA as the issue is irrelevant because Defendants
have failed to show this action arose from their engagement in a protected activity.

 
dEFENDANTS’
ANTI-SLAPP MOTION
 
I.         Evidentiary Objections 
 
Defendants object to Paragraph 12
of the Declaration of Plaintiff Andrew Jung on the basis that it discloses
communications protected by the attorney-client and work product privilege. The
objection is sustained. 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendants Jeffrey C. Bigelow; Manuel Corral, Diana Corral,
and Henry Gambill (hereinafter “Defendants”) seek to strike this action on the
basis that this action arose from Defendants’ exercise of free speech and
petition in the public interest under CCP § 425.16 and the litigation privilege
under Civil Code § 47. 
 
            A.        Disclosure and Submission of the
Mediation Brief is Not Protected Activity
 
Defendants assert that they engaged in a protected activity
by filing an internal labor union charge under the constitution of the AFSCME
International Union (“AFSCME International”) and prosecuting charges of
misconduct against Plaintiff Jung and Plaintiff Alvarenga. For purposes of this
Motion, the court accepts that the AFSCME Judicial Panel proceeding was an
official proceeding required under the Labor Management Reporting &
Disclosure Act of 1959 (“LMRDA”). (See 29 U.S.C. § 401; see also §§ 417.3, 481(h).)
Accordingly, the AFSCME Judicial proceeding is an “administrative adjudication, civil action, or other
noncriminal proceeding” subject to the restrictions outlined in Evid. Code § 1119,
which prohibits the disclosure of any writing made for the purpose of or pursuant
to a mediation. (Evid. Code, § 1119.) 
 
Evid. Code § 1121 applies to “anyone” and prohibits the
submission of “any report, assessment, evaluation, recommendation, or finding
of any kind by the mediator concerning a mediation conducted by the mediator”
except for a report “that states only whether an agreement was reached[.]”
(Evid. Code, § 1121.) The court finds that Defendants did not engage in a
protected activity when they submitted the mediation brief to the AFSCME
Judicial Panel because the mediation brief was confidential and protected from
disclosure under the mediation privilege. 
 
Defendants admit that when they
submitted the charges against Plaintiffs, they submitted the mediation brief to
the ASFCME Judicial Panel, in violation of Evid. Code §§ 1119 and 1121. (M. Corral
Decl., ¶¶ 7-10, Ex. D-F.) The fact that the text messages were discoverable and
capable of being made admissible because they were produced during the regular
course of litigation rather than mediation, does not make the submission of the
mediation brief permissible conduct under the Evidence Code. “Thus, for
example, if a witness observed a car accident and the witness's statement
prepared for a mediation was used by one party to support his or her position
in mediation, the witness would not be precluded from testifying in a
subsequent trial, even if the witness' statement was protected from
disclosure.” (Wimsatt, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.) Defendants’ conduct
would have been excusable if they had just submitted the text messages that
were produced in litigation rather than submitting the entire mediation brief. 
 
The fact that the AFSCME Judicial Panel relied only on the
text messages, which were capable of being discovered and made admissible, did
not make the text messages automatically discoverable or admissible and
did not excuse Defendants’ violation of the Evidence Code. Defendants fails to
cite any case law holding that the mediation privilege is not violated if part
of the privilege material submitted to an “administrative adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal
proceeding” is capable of being discovered and admitted outside of the
mediation. (Evid. Code, § 1119.) The only submission permitted in relation to a
mediation is “a report that is mandated by court rule or other law and that
states only whether an agreement was reached, unless all parties to the
mediation expressly agree otherwise in writing, or orally in accordance with
Section 1118.” (Evid. Code, § 1121.) 
 
B.        The Litigation Privilege is Inapplicable to Disclosure and
Submission of the Mediation Brief 
 
Lastly, the court is unpersuaded
that the disclosure and submission of the mediation brief is conduct protected
by the litigation privilege. The litigation privilege “applies to any publication required
or permitted by law in the course of a judicial proceeding to achieve the
objects of the litigation, even though the publication is made outside the
courtroom and no function of the court or its officers is involved.” (Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212 [italics added].) The disclosure and
submission of the mediation brief to the AFSCME Judicial Panel was neither
required nor permitted by law. “If
the publication has a reasonable relation to the action and is permitted by
law, the absolute privilege attaches.” (Albertson v. Raboff (1956) 46
Cal.2d 375, 381.) Because the disclosure and submission of the mediation brief
were expressly forbidden by the Evidence Code, the Defendants conduct is not
protected by the litigation privilege.
 
Accordingly, the litigation
privilege does not apply to Defendants’ disclosure and submission of the
mediation brief to the AFSCME Judicial Panel.  “It is in the public interest for mediation to
be encouraged and used where appropriate by the courts.” (CCP § 1775(c).) The
public interest would not be served by allowing the mediation privilege to be
eviscerated by the litigation privilege whereby any materials made for the
purpose or pursuant to mediation may be used against that party in a subsequent
litigation. As explained by the California Supreme Court: 
 
We have repeatedly noted that the mediation
confidentiality provisions of the Evidence Code were enacted to encourage
mediation by permitting the parties to frankly exchange views, without fear
that disclosures might be used against them in later proceedings. [Citations]
Toward that end, ‘the statutory scheme ... unqualifiedly bars disclosure of
communications made during mediation absent an express statutory exception.’
 
(Fair v. Bakhtiari
(2006) 40 Cal.4th 189, 194.)  
 
“[T]he only thing the defendant needs to establish to invoke
the [potential] protection of the SLAPP statute is that the challenged lawsuit
arose from an act on the part of the defendant in furtherance of her right of
petition or free speech.” (Equilon, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 61.)
Because Defendants have failed to meet their burden of showing that this action
arose from Defendants’ constitutionally protected speech or petitioning
activity, the court need not consider whether Plaintiffs’ will be able to prevail
in their claims against Defendants. 
 
Defendants’ special motion to strike is denied. 
 
DEFENDANT ACOSTA’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT


The court notes that Defendant
Acosta has not filed a declaration showing compliance with the mandatory
requirements of CCP § 430.41 which requires the parties to meet and confer
before filing a demurrer. The court “retains the discretion to order counsel to
meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward reducing the number of
issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to continue the hearing date
to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020)
45 Cal.App.5th 348, 356, fn. 3.) 
 
The court continues the hearing on
the demurrer until after Defense counsel submits a declaration showing
compliance with the meet and confer requirement.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Acosta’s special motion to strike is denied and the demurrer is continued.
Defendant Acosta is ordered to file a declaration showing compliance with the
meet and confer requirement. Defendants’ special motion to strike is denied.
Defendants to give notice. 


