 Case Number:  23STCV05798    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GLENN WRIGHT,
  et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
EXODUS
  RECOVERY, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV05798
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024



 
Defendant
William Wirshing, M.D.’s unopposed motion to compel Non-party James P.
Hall, D.O. to comply with a deposition subpoena for the production of business
records is granted.
 
Defendant
William Wirshing, M.D., (“Wirshing”) (“Defendant”) moves unopposed for
this Court to compel Non-party James P. Hall, D.O. (“Dr. Hall”) to comply with his
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records on the grounds that the
records sought pertain to Decedent Le’Wayne Anthony Wright’s (“Decedent”)
mental state which is at issue in this lawsuit. 
(Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§1987.1, 2025.480, 56.10, 56.05.)
Wirshing
moves in the alternative to compel Plaintiffs Glenn Wright (“Glenn”) Nina
Woolfolk (“Nina”) (“Plaintiffs”) as successors-in-interest to Decedent to sign
authorization for release of records relative to the mental condition and
treatment of Decedent.  (Notice of Motion,
pg. 2.)
 
Background
          This matter arises out of Decedent’s
death by suicide and Plaintiffs’ allegation that Defendants should have
prevented Decedent’s death.  As part of
plaintiff Glenn’s response to special interrogatories, Dr. Hall was identified
as a psychiatrist who provided care to Decedent during the ten years prior to
death.
(Decl.
of Pruett ¶3, Exh. 1.)  
Defendant
issued a subpoena to Dr. Hall on or about January 17, 2024, for records to be produced
on February 16, 2024.  (Decl. of Pruett
¶4, Exh. 2.)   The subpoena was served to the custodian of
records for Dr. Hall at the location of 5816 Corporate Avenue, #170, Cypress,
CA 90630.  (Decl. of Pruett ¶4, Exh. 2.)   On
February 13, 2024, Dr. Hall objected to the subpoena on the basis the subpoena
seeks confidential and privileged psychiatric records which are protected from
disclosure absent a Court order or patient authorization.  (Decl. of Pruett ¶5, Exh. 3.)
The
subpoena requested the following documents: 
Any and all medical records, documents,
medical reports, including doctor’s entries, nurses’ charts, progress reports,
physical therapy records, pathology reports, all films, original x-ray films,
MRI’s, CT scans including any films/images that may be stored
digitally/electronically, x-ray reports, lab reports, case history, emergency
room records, admitting sheets, special tests, inpatient and outpatient
records, laboratory test/results, original color photographs, videos/dvds of
all clinical lab procedures, referrals, prescriptions, medications, and any
sign-in sheets pertaining to the care and treatment, diagnosis, prognosis,
condition, discharge, insurance records, billing records, billing ledgers, and statement
of charges rendered, and any payments made, including but not limited to any records/documents/correspondence
that may be stored digitally and/or electronically, including all patient
orders and patient results and specifically for any discharge orders, all
detailed screen shots within any computer system, electronic records, purged
records, and all electronic correspondence affecting or relating to Le’Wayne
Wright AKA: Le’Wayne A. Wrights, Le’Wayne Anthony Wright, DOB: 4/11/1994, SS#:
XXX-XX-0381, including but not limited to those pertaining to psychiatric
treatment, psychiatric rehabilitation, psychological treatment, psychological rehabilitation,
treatment for alcoholism, drug addition, depression, mental instability, mental
disease or emotional instability.
 
(Decl.
of Pruett ¶4, Exh. 2.)
          The subject subpoena was properly
issued by attorneys for Defendant, as permitted under C.C.P. §2020.210(b):
“Instead of a court-issued deposition subpoena, an attorney of record for any
party may sign and issue a deposition subpoena.”  Subpoenas may be used to compel a California
nonparty’s production of documents.  (C.C.P.
§§2020.010(a)(3), 2025.280(b); Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
352, 357.)  A deposition subpoena may
require a witness to produce records for copying.  (C.C.P. §2020.510.)
          C.C.P. §56.10 provides: “A provider of
health care, a health care service plan, or a contractor shall disclose medical
information if the disclosure is compelled by any of the following: [¶] (1) A
court order. . .. [¶] (3) A party to a proceeding before a court or administrative
agency pursuant to a subpoena, subpoena duces tecum, notice to appear served pursuant
to Section 1987 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or any provision authorizing
discovery in a proceeding before a court.” 
(C.C.P. §56.10.)
C.C.P.
§56.05(j) defines “‘Medical Information’ means any individually identifiable
information, in electronic or physical form, in possession of or derived from a
provider of health care, health care service plan, pharmaceutical company, or
contractor regarding a patient’s medical history, mental health application
information, reproductive or sexual health application information, mental or
physical condition,
or treatment. ‘Individually identifiable’ means that the medical
information includes or contains any element of personal identifying information
sufficient to allow identification of the individual, such as the patient's
name, address, electronic mail address, telephone number, or social security
number, or other information that, alone or in combination with other publicly
available information, reveals the identity of the individual.”  (C.C.P. §56.05(j), emphasis added.)
The
subpoenaing party may seek a court order mandating the non-party’s compliance with
the subpoena.  (C.C.P. §2025.480; Unzipped
Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 132-133.)  Additionally, C.C.P. §1987.1 provides, in
relevant part, “if a subpoena requires the . . . production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court .
. . or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by
any person described in subdivision (b) . . . may make an order . . . directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare.”  (C.C.P. §1987.1.)
Here,
Dr. Hall objected to Defendant’s subpoena based on privacy concerns.  Plaintiffs have not asserted any objections
to the subject subpoenas. Defendant has exhausted all legal avenues to obtain
the requested records from Dr. Hall and the Plaintiffs have failed to cooperate
or provide a valid legal basis for withholding the records by not responding to
Defendant’s requests for a signed authorization form to authorize Dr. Hall to
release the medical and psychiatric-psychological records.
Although
medical and mental health information is generally privileged, the privilege
gives way when the medical or mental health issues are presented as the issues
in litigation, as here.  Defendant’s
subpoena seeks records pertaining to the Decedent’s mental state and health attributed
to the incident giving rise to the lawsuit. Litigation seeks to ascertain the
truth and this discovery is needed to pursue the truth relative to the nature
of the decedent’s mental illness that ultimately led to his suicide. Therefore,
such records are well within the scope of permissible discovery.  (C.C.P. §2017.010.)
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s
unopposed motion to compel Dr. Hall to comply with Defendant’s
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records is granted.
Moving Party is to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Dated: 
May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  