 Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
to Tax Costs
Plaintiff moves to strike or tax
costs detailed in Defendants, Ramin J. Javahery, M.D., Glenn Levine, M.D., and
Mundi Attinasi, M.D.’s 2/5/24 memorandum of costs. She contends Defendants’
§998 offer was not in good faith and cannot form the basis of a request for
costs. Further, she moves to strike additional unnecessary costs.  
 
2.     Opposition
Defendants filed timely opposition
papers on 9/6/24. Defendants argue that Plaintiff provides no evidence in
support of her motion. Defendants contend each item of costs was actually and
necessarily incurred, and its §998 was made in good faith and not a token under
the circumstances. Defendants ask the Court to deny the motion to tax costs in
its entirety.  
 
3.     Law
Governing Motions to Tax Costs
Allowable costs under CCP §1033.5
must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than
merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in
amount.  An item not specifically
allowable under §1033.5(a) nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may
nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court if they meet the
above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable in amount).  If the items appearing in a cost bill appear
to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show
that they were not reasonable or necessary. 
(Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.)  On the other
hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the
burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.  (Ibid.)  Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary
to the litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and its
decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion. 
(Ibid.)  However, because the
right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to
award costs not statutorily authorized. (Ibid.)  Discretion is abused only when, in its
exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds of reason, all of the circumstances
being considered.”  
 
4.     Items
in Memorandum of Costs
a.    
Expert Fees
Defendants seek to recover $8,700
(worksheet, ¶8) in expert witness fees. 
CCP §1033.5(b) precludes recovery of expert witness fees unless the
expert was ordered by the court or such fees are expressly recoverable per law.   The exception to this rule is CCP §998,
which permits recovery of expert fees if the defendant makes a statutory offer
to compromise, the plaintiff refuses the offer, and the defendant ultimately
achieves a better result than the offer. 
Plaintiff concedes this is the case but contends the Court should tax
the expert fees despite §998 because the offer was “token” and not made in good
faith.  
 
The purpose of CCP §998 is to
encourage the settlement of litigation without trial. To effectuate this
purpose, a §998 offer must be made in good faith. (Jones v. Dumrichob
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1262.)  A
“token” or “nominal” offer may not satisfy the “good faith” requirement and so
may not be the basis for an award of expert witness fees and costs penalties
under §998(c). (Arno v. Helinet Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1019,
1024-1025.)  “The offer must carry with
it some reasonable prospect of acceptance. One having no expectation that his
or her offer will be accepted will not be allowed to benefit from a no-risk
offer made for the sole purpose of later recovering large expert witness fees.”
People ex rel. (Lockyer v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th
1260, 1271.)
 
If the defendant prevails at trial,
or the verdict is less than defendant's §998 offer, that fact constitutes prima
facie evidence that the offer was reasonable. The burden is therefore on the
offeree to prove the offer was in “bad faith.” (Adams v. Ford Motor Co.
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1484.)
 
Defendants herein made a statutory
offer to compromise of $25,000. 
Additionally, if Plaintiff had accepted the offer, Defendants would not
have recovered their costs, which were already substantial at that time.  Plaintiff makes no meaningful argument in her
moving papers in support of her position that the offer was token and/or not in
good faith. Defendants had the case reviewed by experts whose opinions were
supportive, and each was prepared to file a motion for summary judgment. As
such, at the time Defendants served their offers for waiver of costs and
malicious prosecution, they concluded they had a significant likelihood of
prevailing at trial. Accepting the offers would have allowed Plaintiff to avoid
the dispositive ruling ultimately entered against her.  
 
The Court finds the offer was not
token and was made in good faith, and the motion to tax expert costs is denied.
 
b.     Deposition
Fees
Defendants seek to recover $762 in
costs associated with transcribing the deposition of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff argues this cost was not reasonable
because the deposition was unnecessary, unwarranted, and not utilized. Further,
the costs are not recoverable pursuant to CCP § 1033.5(a)(3). Lastly, Plaintiff
argues that no documentation for this cost was provided. 
It is common knowledge that a
deposition is necessary to litigation and that failing to depose the plaintiff
in a civil action would be extremely poor practice. Further, the costs of
taking, videotaping and transcribing depositions are specifically
allowable pursuant to CCP §1033.5(a)(3). Lastly, Defendants need not submit
documentation with their memorandum of costs. The request to tax this cost is
denied.
 
c.     Service
of Process
Plaintiff moves to strike the costs
of $477 in service of process fees for lack of invoices provided to support
this cost. In opposition, Defendants provide the invoice showing the total of
$477 for service of process. (Masutani Decl., ¶2, Exh. A.) Accordingly, the
motion to tax this cost is denied.
 
d.    
Court Reporter Fees 
Plaintiff moves to strike the costs
of $2,425. in court reporter fees for lack of invoices provided to support this
cost. Court reporter fees are an allowable cost as established by statute under
CCP §1033.5(a)(11). Defendants make no argument or mention of this cost in
their opposition. Thus, the Court is unable to determine if this cost was
reasonable. Accordingly, the motion to tax this cost is granted.
 
e.     Jury
Fees
Plaintiff moves to strike the costs
of $150 in jury fees but makes no argument as to this item.  Accordingly, the motion to tax this cost is denied.
 
f.      Filing
Fees for Motions
Plaintiff moves to strike the costs
of $3,092.85 in filing and motion fees but makes no argument as to this
item.  Accordingly, the motion to tax
this cost is denied.
 
g.     Conclusion
The motion to tax the costs for court
reporter fees is granted.  The motion to
tax costs is otherwise denied.
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 