  Case Number:  19STCV30280    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On August 23,
2019, Plaintiffs Kristin Hirai, individually and as successor-in-interest to
her deceased husband Toshio Harai; Takeo Harai, Kristen and Toshio’s son,
through Kristin as his guardian ad litem; Isao Hirai; and Brigitta Hirai sued
twelve (12) defendants for seven (7) causes of action arising from an
automobile-motorcycle collision that resulted in Toshio’s death. 
The Court uses the
plaintiffs’ and the decedent’s first names where necessary solely for clarity,
not out of familiarity or disrespect. 
Plaintiffs filed
their operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) on August 28, 2023, naming (1)
the City of Los Angeles, (2) the State of California (CalTrans), (3-5) the
driver and owners of the vehicle that struck and killed Toshio (Linda, Lonnie,
and Tanesha Phillips).
It is undisputed
that Toshio died in the course of his employment as a police officer for the
City of Gardena (“the City”); he was on his police motorcycle when he was
struck and killed. Plaintiffs argue in the instant motion that the City’s
negligence contributed to Toshio’s death because his motorcycle’s brakes were
not properly maintained. However, Plaintiffs at no point named the City as a
defendant.
Plaintiffs
settled with CalTrans for $5 million, the City of Los Angeles for $1 million,
and the Phillips for $100,000, for a total recovery of $6.1 million. (Clayton
Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
2.     Legal
Standard
Where a public
employee pays into CalPERS, the employee may be entitled to benefits upon his
injury or death. In this circumstance, Government Code section 20252 applies:
“If benefits are payable under this
part because of an injury to or the death of a member and the injury or death
is the proximate consequence of the act of a person other than his or her
employer (the state or the employing contracting agency), the board may on
behalf of this system recover from that person an amount that is the lesser of
the following: 
(1) An amount that is equal to
one-half of the actuarial equivalent of the benefits for which this system is
liable because of such injury or death. 
(2) An amount that is equal to
one-half of the remaining balance of the amount recovered after allowance of
that amount that the employer or its insurance carrier have paid or become
obligated to pay.”
(Gov. Code, § 20252.)
 
3.     Discussion
a. CalPERS has an enforceable lien
on the settlement proceeds.
Plaintiffs
assert CalPERS cannot assert a lien on Kristin’s recovery because the City,
Toshio’s employer, was a proximate cause of his death, and section 20252 only
permits CalPERS to recover where “the injury or death is the proximate
consequence of the act of a person other than his or her employer”. (Gov. Code,
§ 20252.) Plaintiffs cite McQuillan v. Southern Pacific Co. (1974) 40
Cal.App.3d 802 (McQuillan) to argue that where an employer makes any
proximate contribution to a covered employee’s injury, CalPERS may not recover.
Even accepting
Plaintiffs’ reading of McQuillan as correct, they have not shown the
exception applies here. Plaintiffs acknowledge that in McQuillan, a jury
determined the plaintiffs’ employer was partly liable. They wave away this
crucial distinction by arguing that “there is no statutory or case authority
that requires there be a ‘finding’ of employer negligence to bar [a] CalPERS
subrogation claim.” (Reply, 2:25-28.)
Some “finding”
of employer negligence is necessary for the Court to apply the exception in
section 22052. The Court will not bar CalPERS’ multiple-hundred-thousand dollar
recovery based on a handful of declarations and exhibits, none of which amount
to a showing of negligence.
Plaintiffs argue
that if the Court adopts CalPERS’ argument, then “ever[y] case in which CalPERS
asserts a subrogation claim would necessarily have to go to verdict regardless
of the desire of the parties to settle.” (Reply, 2:28-3:2.) Not so. In
fact, case law acknowledges that parties to a settlement that implicates
CalPERS subrogation are free to account for the adjusted recovery, or not.
(E.g. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. v. Board of Administration (1979)
89 Cal.App.3d 766 [CalPERS not bound by release in settlement to which it is
not a party].)
Plaintiffs have
not established that they are exempt from the application of section 22052.
b. Plaintiffs have not identified
any legal doctrine that reduces CalPERS’ subrogation rights past a calculation
under section 20252.
The parties also
dispute the amount to which CalPERS is entitled. CalPERS contends it is
entitled to $656,250.75 from Kristin’s settlement funds, based on the method
stated in Government Code section 202252(1).
Plaintiff
contends that CalPERS’ recovery should be reduced beyond its proposed amount,
on several bases. 
First, Plaintiffs
argue CalPERS should recover less because Toshio paid into the CalPERS fund. But
the plain language of section 20252 applies to all “members” of the CalPERS
program. (Gov. Code, § 20252.) Section 20281 states that a State employee
“becomes a member upon his or her entry into employment.” (Id., §
20281.) Section 20252 applies to Toshio and his survivors; his payment into the
fund is irrelevant (and, in fact, mandatory). Plaintiffs also rely solely on McQuillan,
supra, for their proposition. And as discussed above, McQuillan
is distinguishable in a number of crucial respects. (See McQuillan,
supra, 40 Cal.App.3d, at pp. 806-807; accord Bilyeu v. State Emp.
Retirement System (1962) 58 Cal.2d 618, 622-623 [application of 20252 and
payment into fund are separate, bargained-for terms of employment contract].)
Second,
Plaintiff contends Kristin has not been “made whole” by her settlement, and
that should affect CalPERS’ recovery. There is no reference to being “made
whole” in section 20252. The Court would need to make sweeping factual findings
about the extent of Kristin’s injury in order to determine that she recovered
less than what would make her whole. And again, case law – including McQuillan
– suggests the Court should not make such judgments when applying section
202252. (See McQuillan, supra, 40 Cal.App.3d 802, 807
[inconsequential that plaintiffs might doubly recover survivor benefits and
damages].)
Plaintiffs have
not shown either of theories requires a change to the calculation method
clearly stated in section 202252.
c. The
Court’s arithmetic confirms CalPERS’ calculation.
Section 20252
permits CalPERS to recover the lesser of one-half of (1) the “actuarial
equivalent” of death benefits it will pay to Plaintiffs over their lifetimes as
a result of the third party’s tort, or (2) the “remaining balance of the amount
recovered” after subtracting any amount paid by Plaintiffs’ employer or its
insurer.
/ / /
/ / /
            i. Actuarial Equivalent of
Lifetime Benefits
For purposes of
section 20252, “ ‘[a]ctuarial equivalent’ means a benefit of equal value when
computed upon the basis of the mortality tables adopted and the actuarial
interest rate fixed by the [Board of Administration]” for CalPERS. (Gov. Code,
§ 20013.) CalPERS submits the declaration of one of its Actuary Seniors,
Wingcheong Lee, who attests that he calculated the value of Kristin’s benefit
based on the relevant mortality tables and interest rate and arrived at a
lifetime benefit of $1,312,501.50 at the time of Toshio’s death. (Lee Decl., ¶
5 and Exh. A.) The $1.3 million result “considered [Toshio’s] salary, his age
at the time of his death, the amount [he] had contributed to the retirement
system ..., the age of his surviving spouse, the age of his surviving child,
and life expectancies, among other factors.”
One-half of that
proposed recovery is $656,250.75.
            ii. Remaining Balance of Amount
Recovered
Alternatively,
the Court could base the calculation on half of Kristin’s total recovery. No
adjustment for employer payment is needed, because there is no evidence the
City of Gardena paid Plaintiffs anything. The total recovery for Plaintiffs is
$6.1 million. Adjusting for attorneys’ fees and costs, Plaintiffs recover a net
amount of $3,490,745.38. Adjusting for Kristin’s 65% portion, she recovers a
net $2,268,984.50. One-half of that amount is approximately $1.1 million.
In its
calculation, CalPERS then further reduces the amount of Kristin’s recovery
based on CalPERS’ share of attorneys’ fees (because CalPERS did not assist
Plaintiffs with the litigation). But whether or not the calculation is adjusted
for fees (either once or twice), the result exceeds the calculation under
section 20252(1), so the Court adopts the former amount.
iii. Compromise
Discussions
Plaintiffs argue
in part that CalPERS’ counsel stipulated to a lien of only $525,356.19.
(Reply, 6:13-17, citing Mot., Exh. 5.) After reviewing counsel’s email
exchange, the Court finds that even if CalPERS’ counsel made a firm offer to
compromise, and even if evidence of that offer is admissible in support of
Plaintiffs’ motion, there is no evidence that Plaintiffs accepted the offer. In
fact, this motion confirms they rejected it. Plaintiffs cannot rely on a
rejected compromise proposal to limit CalPERS’ relief.
iv. Final Result
According to the
undisputed declaration of Mr. Lee, one-half of the actuarial equivalent of
benefits to be paid to Kristin – the recovery described in section 202252(1) –
equals $656,250.75. CalPERS’ recovery under section 20252(2) would be higher,
so the lesser calculation under subdivision (1) applies. CalPERS’ lien amounts
to $656,250.75.
 
4.     Conclusion
Having reviewed
the moving papers, opposition, and reply, the Court determines that CalPERS may
recover $656,250.75 from the proceeds of Plaintiffs’ settlement.
Moving plaintiffs
to give notice.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.