 Case Number:  23STCV11687    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAGGIE PARSONS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERT OZERAN,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11687
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  DEPOSITION 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 12, 2024



 
On September 29, 2024, Plaintiff
Maggie Parsons noticed the deposition of Defendant Robert Ozeran for the agreed
date of October 11, 2024.  (Frank Decl. ¶
4 & Ex. A.)
The
day before the deposition, Defendant informed Plaintiff that he would not appear
due to a self-incrimination issue with contempt proceedings in a different family
law case.  (Frank Decl. ¶¶ 5, 13 & Ex.
B; see Cianci Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  Plaintiff proceeded
to take a Certificate of Non-Appearance on October 11, 2024.  (Frank Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. C.)
Also
on October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant’s deposition.
A
motion to compel a deposition must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
that states facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2025.450, subd. (a)(2).)
Plaintiff
did not file the required declaration.  Defendant’s
evidence makes clear that Plaintiff did not even try to meet and confer before filing
this motion.
On
October 10, 2024, Defendant’s counsel in this case was informed by Defendant’s family
law counsel that Plaintiff had filed a petition for contempt.  (Cianci Decl. ¶ 7.)  Concerned about self-incrimination, Defendant’s
counsel told Plaintiff’s counsel that Defendant would not appear for a deposition
until the expected resolution of the contempt petition on October 22, 2024.  (Cianci Decl. ¶ 8 & Ex. 5; Frank Decl., Ex.
B.)  Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to
the email and filed this motion the next day. 
(Cianci Decl. ¶¶ 10-12.)  Since then,
the family law contempt proceedings have been continued to February 4, 2025 because
Plaintiff did not personally serve Defendant with the petition for contempt.  (Cianci Decl. ¶ 13 & Ex. 6.)
In
reply, Plaintiff states, “Counsel for plaintiff did send an email after receiving
the objection meeting and conferring Counsel for defendants seem to omit the meet
and confer correspondence when they raise lack of same in their opposition papers.  And not a lot of room for negotiation here in
a meet and confer – deponent appears or not. (Frank Decl. – Reply).  Meeting and conferring after the non-appearance
rather than before seems a little non-sequitur. And the meet and confer was conducted.”  (Reply at p. 2.)
Plaintiff’s
counsel declares, “I did telephone counsel for defendants, left a voicemail and
no return call (see Frank Decl. in moving papers).”  (Frank Reply Decl. ¶ 2.)  Nowhere in the first declaration does counsel
refer to meet and confer phone calls or voicemails.
Plaintiff’s
counsel also declares, “I sent an email after receiving the objection days (a court
day) before the deposition explaining that the deponent was to appear and why and
conducted a meet and confer and stated that the deposition would proceed as no protective
order, stay, nor valid objection under the Code (see the moving papers and declaration).
. . . So, I did send an email after receiving the objection meeting and conferring
Counsel for defendants seem to omit the meet and confer correspondence when they
raise lack of same in their opposition papers.” 
(Frank Reply Decl. ¶ 3.)  The numerous
exhibits to the declaration primarily relate to the family law contempt proceedings
and are not relevant here.  There is no evidence
of an email from Plaintiff’s counsel to Defendant’s counsel after Defendant cancelled
his deposition appearance.
Plaintiff’s
purported “meet and confer correspondence” is an October 23, 2024 email from Plaintiff’s
counsel to Defendant’s counsel about an unspecified deposition.  (Frank Reply Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. N.)  Even if this was about Defendant’s deposition,
it was sent twelve days after Plaintiff filed this motion.
“[T]he
statute requires that there be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution”
before filing a motion to compel.  (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1438.)  “[T]he law requires that counsel attempt to talk
the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.”  (Id. at p. 1439.)  This was not done, and Plaintiff did not even
attempt to do so.
The
motion to compel deposition is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 