 Case Number:  21STCV09874    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CARLA VEGA, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FCA US LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV09874
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BIFURCATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 12, 2024



 
On
October 4, 2024, Defendant FCA US LLC filed a motion to bifurcate the trial into
liability and punitive damages phases.
The
Court may order a separate trial of any cause of action or any separate issue in
furtherance of convenience or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition
and economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(b).)  The Court may also order the trial
of an issue to precede the trial on another issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)  “The court shall, on application of any defendant,
preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition
until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages
and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance
with [Civil Code] Section 3294.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 3295, subd. (d).)
Plaintiffs
Carla Vega and Leonel Torres argue that Defendant’s motion goes beyond asking that
evidence of the Defendant’s profits or financial condition in support of punitive
damages be bifurcated from the liability portion of the trial.  (Opposition at p. 1.)  Plaintiffs contend that Defendant improperly requests
that liability be determined by “clear and convincing evidence” and that all evidence
concerning punitive damages (not just Defendant’s profits or financial condition)
be excluded.  (Id. at pp. 1-2.)
To
recover punitive damages, Plaintiffs will need to prove by clear and convincing
evidence that Defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 3294, subd. (a).)  This does not alter Plaintiffs’ burden of proof
for the underlying causes of action.  It is
simply the burden of proof for punitive damages.
Because
bifurcation is mandatory under these circumstances, the motion to bifurcate punitive
damages is GRANTED.  Evidence of Defendant’s
profits or financial condition may not be admitted until after the trier of fact
finds that Defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud.  Arguments about the introduction of other evidence
should be addressed through motions in limine or objections at trial.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 