  Case Number:  23STCV24004    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  11 Lee (23STCV24004)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           6/25/24
Time:                          11:00
am
Moving Party:           Vizio Services, LLC (“Defendant”)
Opposing Party:        Jung Ho Lee (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
continued.  The Court intends to grant
the parties leave to submit supplemental evidence and will hold an evidentiary
hearing with live testimony.
 
BACKGROUND
 
“Defendant operates a Smart TV platform and related services[.]”  (Motion, p. 2.)  Plaintiff used to work for Defendant as an
account executive.  He alleges that
Defendant subjected him and other current and former employees to numerous
wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Defendant moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual
claims.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence, Assent, and
Enforcement
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
started working for Defendant in October 2022. 
(See McLeod Decl., ¶ 5.)  During
the onboarding process, which took place online, Plaintiff received several
documents, including the 2021-2022 employee handbook and 2022 arbitration
agreement.  (See id. at ¶¶ 6-11.)  It is undisputed that Plaintiff e-signed an
acknowledgment page in which he acknowledged receiving the 2021-2022 handbook
and 2022 agreement.  (See id. at ¶¶ 12,
14; see also Lee Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
The
2022 agreement appears on the 2022 acknowledgment page.  It states:
 
This will
acknowledge that I have received my copy of the 2021-2022 VIZIO, Inc. (“the
Company”) Employee Handbook, and that I will familiarize myself with its
contents. I understand that this handbook represents the current policies,
regulations, and benefits, and that except for employment at-will status and
the Arbitration Agreement, any and all policies or practices can be changed at
any time by the Company. The Company retains the right to add, change, or
delete wages, benefits, policies, and all other working conditions at any time
(except the policy of "at will employment" and Arbitration Agreement,
which may not be changed, altered, revised or modified without signature by the
President of The Company). 
 
I further understand
that nothing in the Employee Handbook creates or is intended to create a
promise or representation of continued employment with the Company, and that my
employment, position, and compensation with the Company are at-will, and may be
changed or terminated at the will of the Company. I understand that I have the
right to terminate my employment at any time, with or without cause or notice,
and that The Company has a similar right. My signature below certifies that I
understand the foregoing agreement that at-will status is the sole and entire
agreement between the Company, and myself concerning the duration of my
employment and the circumstances under which my employment may be terminated.
It supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, and representations
(whether written or oral) concerning my employment with the Company.
 
I further agree and
acknowledge that the Company and I will utilize binding arbitration to resolve
all disputes that may arise out of the employment context. The Company and I
each agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either I may have against
the Company (or their owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents,
and parties affiliated with their employee benefit and health plans), or that
the Company may have against me, arising from, related to, or having any
relationship or connection whatsoever with my seeking employment with,
employment by, termination from, or other association with the Company shall be
submitted to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration under the
Federal Arbitration Act [(“FAA”)], in conformity with the procedures of the
California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec 1280 et seq., including
section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s other mandatory and permissive rights to
discovery). Included within the scope of this Agreement are all disputes, whether
based on tort, contract, statute (including, but not limited to, any claims of
discrimination and harassment, whether they be based on the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, or any other state or federal law or regulation), equitable law, or
otherwise, with exception of claims arising under the National Labor Relations
Act which are brought before the National Labor Relations Board, claims for
medical and disability benefits under the California Workers’ Compensation Act,
Employment Development Department claims, or as otherwise required by state or
federal law. However, nothing herein shall prevent me from filing and pursuing
proceedings before the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or
the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (although if I choose
to pursue a claim following the exhaustion of such administrative remedies,
that claim would be subject to the provisions of this Agreement). In addition to
any other requirements imposed by law, the arbitrator selected shall be a
qualified individual to whom 2 Version: April 2016 the parties mutually agree,
and shall be subject to disqualification on the same grounds as would apply to
a judge of such court. All rules of pleading (including the right of demurrer),
all rules of evidence, all rights to resolution of the dispute by means of
motions for summary judgment, judgment on the pleadings, and judgment under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 631.8 shall apply and be observed. Resolution
of the dispute shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims and
defenses pleaded, and the arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including but
not limited to, notions of "just cause") other than such controlling
law. The arbitrator shall have the immunity of a judicial officer from civil
liability when acting in the capacity of an arbitrator, which immunity
supplements any other existing immunity. Likewise, all communications during or
in connection with the arbitration proceedings are privileged in accordance
with Cal. Civil Code Section 47(b). As reasonably required to allow full use
and benefit of this agreement's modifications to the Act’s procedures, the
arbitrator shall extend the times set by the Act for the giving of notices and
setting of hearings. Awards shall include the arbitrator's written reasoned
opinion. I understand and agree to this binding arbitration provision, and both
the Company, and I give up our right to trial by jury of any claim I, the
Company may have against each other. 
 
This is the entire
agreement between the Company, and me regarding dispute resolution, the length
of my employment, and the reasons for termination of employment, and this
agreement supersedes any and all prior agreements regarding these issues. It is
further agreed and understood that any agreement contrary to the foregoing must
be entered into, in writing, by the President of the Company, to be binding
against the Company. No supervisor or representative of the Company, other than
the President of the Company, has any authority to enter into any agreement for
employment for any specified period of time or make any agreement contrary to
the foregoing. Oral representations made before I was hired do not alter this
Agreement. 
 
If any term,
provision, or portion of this Agreement is declared void or unenforceable, it
shall be severed and the remainder of this Agreement shall be enforceable.
 
(McCleod Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. A; see
also Lee Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 4.)
 
Facts
and terms like these normally suffice to demonstrate an agreement to arbitrate;
however, Plaintiff contends the motion to compel should be denied because:
 
(1)
Plaintiff e-signed an acknowledgment in January 2023 that supersedes the 2022
agreement (see Opposition, pp. 2-4);
 
(2)
Defendant is not a signatory to the 2022 agreement (see id. at pp. 4-5);
 
(3)
Defendant lacks standing to enforce the 2022 agreement as a third-party
beneficiary or under the doctrine of equitable estoppel (see id. at pp. 5-12);
and
 
(4)
“Plaintiff’s continued employment with Defendant” did not constitute implied
assent to the 2022 agreement.  (Id. at p.
12.)
 
The
Court finds that the hearing should be continued as to point (1).  The 2023 acknowledgment states:
 
This is to
acknowledge that I have received a copy of the Employee Handbook and understand
that it contains important information on VIZIO’s general personnel policies
and on my privileges and obligations as an employee. I acknowledge that I am
expected to have read, familiarized myself with, understood, and will adhere to
all VIZIO policies set forth herein. I understand that I am governed by the
contents of the handbook and that VIZIO may change, rescind or add to any
policies, benefits or practices described in the handbook, other than the
employment-at-will policy, from time to time in its sole and absolute
discretion, with or without prior notice. VIZIO will advise employees of
material changes within a reasonable time. 
 
I also acknowledge
that I have received a copy of the “Employee Privacy Notice and Policy” that is
effective on January 1, 2023. If I am an employee in Colorado, New York, or
Washington, I acknowledge that I have received a copy of a separate Addendum that
is designed to supplement this Employee Handbook. If there is any conflict
between the Addendum that applies to me and this Handbook, the Addendum will
control. Furthermore, I understand that employment with VIZIO is not for a
specified term and is at the mutual consent of the employee and the company.
Accordingly, either the employee or the company can terminate the employment
relationship at will, with or without cause, at any time. This represents a
final and binding integrated agreement with respect to the at-will nature of
the employment relationship and cannot be modified, unless it is modified in a
written agreement signed by the president of the company and by me. 
 
This is the
entire agreement between the Company, and me regarding dispute
resolution, the length of my employment, and the reasons for termination of
employment, and this agreement supersedes any and all prior agreements
regarding these issues. It is further agreed and understood that any
agreement contrary to the foregoing must be entered into, in writing, by the
CEO of the Company, to be binding against the Company. No supervisor or
representative of the Company, other than the President of the Company, has any
authority to enter into any agreement for employment for any specified period
of time or make any agreement contrary to the foregoing. Oral representations
made before I was hired do not alter this Agreement. 
 
If any term,
provision, or portion of this Agreement is declared void or unenforceable, it
shall be severed and the remainder of this Agreement shall be enforceable.
 
(Lee Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 4, emphasis
added.)  The emphasized language tends to
indicate that the drafters intended the 2023 acknowledgment to be the “entire
agreement . . . regarding dispute resolution” and to “supersede[] . . . all
prior agreements regarding” dispute resolution. 
(Ibid.)  Admittedly, though, the
term “dispute resolution” is ambiguous, and “VIZIO” is undefined.  Supplemental evidence and an evidentiary
hearing on the meaning of these words are needed to decide the motion.
 
For now, Defendant’s cases do not
change the result.  Defendant cites Ramirez-Baker
v. Beazer Homes, Inc. (E.D.Cal. 2008) 636 F.Supp.2d 1008 and Thorup v.
Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 228, claiming a subsequent
agreement that is silent concerning arbitration cannot supersede a prior
agreement that expressly requires arbitration. 
(See Reply, pp. 2-3.)  The
subsequent integration clause in Ramirez-Baker did not have a “dispute
resolution” term.  (Ramirez-Baker,
supra, 636 F.Supp.2d at 1016.)  Thorup
analyzes a different issue – “whether the employer waived its right to
arbitrate by firing the employee before seeking arbitration.”  (Thorup, supra, 180 Cal.App.3d at
232.)  Both are distinguishable on the
current record, so a continuance remains necessary.
 
Point (2) is unpersuasive.  The 2022 agreement provides that “the Company
and [Plaintiff] will utilize binding arbitration to resolve all disputes that
may arise out of the employment context.” 
(McCleod Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. A.) 
“Company” means “VIZIO, Inc.” 
(Ibid.)  Defendant, on the other
hand, is not mentioned and is not a signatory, but these facts, alone, are not
enough to defeat the motion to compel.  Indeed,
“[c]ertain persons who did not
sign the agreement to arbitrate may be entitled to enforce it and prosecute the
arbitration in their own names.” 
(Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:262.)  For
example, third-party beneficiaries.  (See
id. at ¶ 5:263.)
 
Which brings the Court to point
(3).  The 2022 agreement identifies
multiple beneficiaries, namely, “the Company[’s]” – i.e., VIZIO, Inc.’s –
“owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, and parties
affiliated with their employee benefit and health plans[.]”  (McCleod Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. A, emphasis
added.)  Defendant’s director of human
resources declares that Defendant is VIZIO, Inc.’s subsidiary, that VIZIO,
Inc.’s benefits plan applied to Defendant’s employees, and that Plaintiff was
enrolled in the plan.  (See id. at ¶¶ 3,
15.)  The statement supports Defendant’s
position, and there is no contrary evidence. If the Court ends up holding that
the 2023 acknowledgment does not supersede the 2022 agreement, the Court intends
to find that Defendant qualifies as a third-party beneficiary.
 
The motion to compel is moot as
to agency, equitable estoppel, and point (4). 
Defendant does not discuss these theories in reply.  (See Reply, pp. 2-8.)  They appear to be abandoned. 
 
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff does not argue that the
2022 agreement is unconscionable.  (See
Opposition, pp. 1-12.)
 
Class Claims
 
Defendant contends the class
claims should be stricken because the 2022 agreement does not authorize class
arbitration.  Defendant asserts that
“[c]lass or collective arbitration is not available when an arbitration agreement
is silent on the issue.”  (Motion, p.
13.)
 
Plaintiff did not respond.  (See Opposition, pp. 1-12.)
 
Defendant’s contention puts the
cart before the horse.  The 2022
agreement states that the FAA governs. 
(See McCleod Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. A; see also Lee Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 4.)  Case law holds, in FAA cases, that “the
foundational issue – whether a particular arbitration agreement prohibits class
arbitrations – must . . . be decided by the arbitrators, not the courts.”  (Garcia v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 297, 298; see also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:356.5 [citing Green
Tree Financial Corp. v. Bazzle (2003) 539 U.S. 444, noting that the United
States Supreme Court “has held in a plurality opinion that when an arbitration
provision does not expressly permit or prohibit classwide arbitration, the
decision is for the arbitrator, not the court”]; Sandquist v. Lebo
Automotive, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 233 [agreeing with the High
Court’s plurality opinion].) 
Consequently, if the 2022 agreement ends up being found to not be
superseded, the arbitrator will need to decide whether the 2022 agreement
allows class arbitration before the Court can address Defendant’s request to
strike.    
 
Private Attorneys General
Act (“PAGA”)
 
Prior
to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking
River”), the applicable law was Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348. 
“Iskanian’s principal rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’
PAGA claims in the first sense.”  (Viking
River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.)  “That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative
standing to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].) 
 
In
Viking River, the plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any
dispute arising out of her employment.” 
(Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action Waiver’ providing that in any
arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring any dispute as a class,
collective, or representative PAGA action.” 
(Ibid.)  “It also contained a
severability clause specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class,
collective, representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in
court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any
‘portion’ of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After
leaving her position” with the defendant, the plaintiff “filed a PAGA action .
. . in California court.”  (Ibid.)  “Her complaint contained a claim that [the
defendant] had failed to provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as
required by” Labor Code sections 101 and 102. 
(Ibid.)  “But the complaint also
asserted a wide array of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . .
. employees, including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage,
overtime, meal periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s]
‘individual’ PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she
suffered — and to dismiss her other PAGA claims.”  (Ibid.) 
“The trial court denied that motion, and the California Court of Appeal
affirmed, holding that categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to
state policy and that PAGA claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual
claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’ claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted
arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale
enforcement was impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration[.]”  (Ibid.)
 
The
United States Supreme Court granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one,
that the FAA preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and
non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA claims.
 Under Iskanian, this provision
was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss[.]
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways stand out: 
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands; 
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims; 
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and 
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in a case called Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104.
 
In light of Iskanian, Viking
River, and Adolph, if the 2002 agreement ends up being found binding
and enforceable, the Court intends to compel Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim
to arbitration and to stay the representative PAGA claim until the arbitration
is finished.
 