 Case Number:  22STCV28564    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  26 8/19/2024 
Dept. 26
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
Christina Development Corporation v. Steven Raymond Short (22STCV28564) 
 
Counsel for Short:  Steve Short, in Pro Per 
Counsel for Christina Development Corporation:  Louis Miller
(Miller Barondess, LLP) 
 
PLAINTIFF SHORT’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES
TO FORM INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL, SET TWO (filed on 12/12/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Discovery is MOOT. 
 
The parties’
requests for sanctions are DENIED.   
 
I. BACKGROUND
On September
1, 2022, Plaintiff Christina Development Corporation (“CDC”) filed the
complaint against Defendant Steve Raymond Short (“Short”) and Does 1 through 10.
The complaint alleges (1) tortious interference with contractual relations; (2)
defamation; (3) civil harassment; (4) conversion; and (5) breach of
contract.¿¿ 
On January
18, 2023, Plaintiff Steve Short filed the case entitled Steve Short v.
Christina Development Corporation; Christina Properties Limited, et al. Los
Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23VECV00203 for Labor Code violations against
CDC, Christina Properties Limited, G&A Partners, LTD, David Allen
Whitehead, Lawrence Norman Taylor, Adam Jacob Rosenkranz, Vincent Chan, Connor
Stephen Wilks, JW Associates, LLC, Empire View Homes, LLC, and Crescent Hill
Lofts, LLC.¿¿ 
On March 10,
2023, CDC filed a notice of related cases with the case entitled Steve Short
v. Christina Development Corporation; Christina Properties Limited, et al. Los
Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23VECV00203. On March 29, 2023, the Court
found the two cases related and set an Order to Show Cause as to why the cases
should not be consolidated. (Minute Order 3/29/23.) On April 20, 2023, the
Court consolidated the two actions for all purposes. (Minute Order
4/20/23.)¿¿ 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff Short filed the Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories –
General, Set Two, arguing:
·      
Short served Form Interrogatories – General, Set Two on Defendants
Vincent Chan and David Whitehead. However, Chan and Whitehead failed to serve
responses. 
·      
Short also seeks $500 in monetary sanctions against each
Defendant. 
 
On August 6, 2024, CDC Defendants filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendants’ responses to Plaintiff’s form interrogatories were
originally due on October 20, 2023. However, Plaintiff granted to Defendants a
couple of extensions which the parties had documented in writing. Defendants
were concerned with divulging personal information in their discovery
responses. The attorney handling this matter left Defendants’ counsel’s firm and
this matter fell through the cracks. The new attorney handling this matter
served Form Interrogatory responses on February 20, 2024. This was 5 months before the parties even had an operative
Complaint. (Gill Declaration, ¶ 6, Exhibit C.)
·      
Plaintiff’s instant motion cannot be granted because responses
were served. If Plaintiff did not like the responses he received, he should
have met and conferred and filed a motion to compel further responses. 
·      
Plaintiff’s request for permissive sanctions should be denied.
·      
Defense counsel has been forced to prepare a full substantive
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion, even though this motion should have been
withdrawn or limited to Plaintiff’s sanctions request. Defendants therefore
request sanctions under CCP Sections 2023.10(h), 2023.030, and 2030.290 in the
amount of $2,550.
 
Plaintiff Short filed a reply maintaining that he is entitled to
sanctions.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a
response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve
a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no
time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served and no
meet and confer is required when a party does not respond to discovery
requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories
was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has
expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
The Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.290(c) provides in relevant part that,   
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under [Section
2023.010] against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).) 
B.     Discussion
 
                                                   
i.     Motion to
Compel Responses
 
Plaintiff served
Form Interrogatories – General, Set Two on Defendants Vincent Chan and David
Allen Whitehead on September 18, 2023. (Short Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Responses were
due on or before October 20, 2023. 
 
Defendants
contend that Plaintiff had granted Defendants an open extension to provide form interrogatory responses, so that
the parties could continue to meet and confer about sensitive discovery and
disclosure issues. (Williams Declaration, ¶¶ 3-4.) However, Defendants’ prior counsel
states he could not locate any documentation memorializing this extension and
that after he transitioned to another law firm, this matter fell through the
cracks. (Ibid.) Defendants’ counsel declares that verified responses
were eventually served on February 20, 2024. (Gill Declaration, ¶ 6, Exhibit C.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s motion to compel is moot as
Defendants’ counsel provided the requested responses. When respondents
serve untimely discovery responses after parties have filed motions to compel
initial responses, courts have broad discretion as to the ruling and may hold
that the motion is moot. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., v. Klugman
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Discovery is MOOT. 
 
                                                  
ii.     Sanctions
Plaintiff requests $500.00 in sanctions against each
Defendant based on hours it took to research and prepare his motion. (Short
Decl., ¶ 5.)  
In opposition, Defendants dispute this request for sanctions,
arguing that Plaintiff “(a) had granted to Defendants an open extension to
respond, (b) had served form interrogatories many months before there was an
operative Complaint, (c) had no real reason to serve those discovery requests
and did not raise them in opposing Defendants’ demurrers, and (d) had insisted
upon Defendants’ disclosure of personal identifying information despite his
criminal background.” (Oppos., p. 7.) Further, Defendants assert that
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is procedurally deficient since his
declaration does not provide a basis for calculating an award. Defendants
assert that sanctions should be awarded against Plaintiff in the amount of $2,550 for Defendants’ work on its opposition. 
Here, the Court will not award either parties’ request for
sanctions. As discussed above, Plaintiff’s motion is moot. Defendants have
already provided Plaintiff with responses to Plaintiff’s discovery request. The
Court will not exercise its discretion to award sanctions. 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Discovery is MOOT. 
 
The parties’ requests for sanctions are
DENIED.  