  Case Number:  1806544    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  26 8/19/2024
Dept. 26
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CHEN, et al. v. GILMORE, et al. (18STCV06544)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Miranda Chen (Pro
Per)
Counsel for Defendants/opposing
party:  Michael Long (Long & Associates),
Todd Stevenson (Stevenson Law Office), Daniel Friedlander (Law Office of Daniel
Friedlander)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PRESENT
ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE & REQUEST FOR RELIEF (filed 04/09/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Present Additional Evidence & Request
for Relief is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November
29, 2018, Plaintiffs Miranda Chen aka Jien Chen (“Chen”) and Rolling Roles, LLC
(jointly “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant action fraud action against Defendants
Christine Gilmore, Red Velvet Entertainment, Inc., Blood Pageant, LLC, and
Anthony J. Sands.  On September 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative
second amended complaint against Christina Gilmore aka Chris Gilmore aka
Christina Ferra Gilmore dba Red Velvet Entertainment, Red Velvet Entertainment,
Inc., a California Corporation, Red Velvet Entertainment, Inc. a Wyoming
Corporation, Blood Pageant, LLC, Robert Burton, Anthony Sands, and Mark
Askey.  The second amended complaint asserted three causes of action for
(1) Fraud and Deceit, (2) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (3) Constructive
Trust.   
 
On May 3,
2019, Defendants Christine Gilmore, Red Velvet Entertainment, Inc., a
California Corporation, and Blood Pageant, LLC (collectively
“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs, Otis Cooper,
Cindy Villareal, and Tony Boldi.  On October 14, 2022, Cross-Complainants
filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs and Otis
Cooper.  The Second Amended Cross-Complaint asserted four causes of action
for (1) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, (2) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (3) Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage, and (4) Breach of Contract. 
 
On June 6,
2023, pursuant to the jury verdict, judgment was entered in favor of Defendants
on both the second amended complaint and the second amended
cross-complaint. 
 
On August 9,
2023, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motions for a judgment notwithstanding the
verdict and for a new trial.
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Leave to Present
Additional Evidence & Request for Relief, arguing:
·       Plaintiff moves to introduce new evidence pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 473
·      
Plaintiff seeks to introduce an email from
Defendant Red Velvet Entertainment dated April 9, 2020, that show
discriminatory remarks and bias towards her because she is referenced in a
derogatory manner. The evidence showcases Defendants’ prejudiced motivations. 
Defendants
filed an opposition, arguing:
·        Plaintiffs’
motion is untimely.
o   A motion to set aside judgment “shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” C.C.P. §473(b)
o   Notice of entry of judgment was served and filed on June 16, 2023. Chen’s
motion was filed on April 9, 2024.
·       The email Plaintiffs attempt to introduce as new
evidence is not new. The email was already presented at trial. 
·      
Plaintiffs cite to C.C.P. §473(b); however, Plaintiffs do
not demonstrate any grounds to permit a new trial or to warrant the Court to
set aside a jury verdict and judgment entered pursuant to said verdict
·       The motion improperly seeks reconsideration or new trial. Seeking to
relitigate the merits of the underlying case is barred by collateral estoppel
and res judicata.
Plaintiffs
did not file a reply.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
Section 473, subdivision (b) states in pertinent
part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.... Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
 
Section
473, subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under
the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from
a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or
his or her attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand,
upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted
in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision,
and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation
results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only
extends to vacating
a default which will result in the entry of a default judgment, a default
judgment, or an entered
dismissal.”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)  ¿¿ 
 
To gain the
statutory benefits, a party or legal representative must seek such relief
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b);
see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 (Rappleyea). 
If relief is sought after the six-month period, a trial court may still vacate
a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.¿ (Olivera
v. Grace (1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 575-76.)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
seek to introduce newly discovered evidence under Code of Civil Procedure § 473. Plaintiffs argue that the evidence
they seek to introduce is an email that is critical to the case and shows
discrimination and bias against Plaintiff. 
 
However, Plaintiffs motion fails to establish any basis for
relief. While Plaintiffs cite to Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), Plaintiffs have
not shown any mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect that would allow them relief from judgment. Plaintiffs argue
that the email is newly discovered evidence. However, Plaintiffs do not explain
how the email was newly discovered. Moreover, in Defendants’ opposition, they
assert that the email is not newly discovered evidence and was presented at
trial. Plaintiffs did not file a reply and failed to respond to any of
Defendants’ arguments. 
 
The
Court does not find that Plaintiff is entitled to relief under Code of Civil Procedure § 473. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Present
Additional Evidence & Request for Relief is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 

Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Present
Additional Evidence & Request for Relief is DENIED. 