 Case Number:  22STCV11779    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  26 08/19/2024
Dept. 26
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
Daniel Figueroa v. Mohini, LLC (22STCV11779)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party: Kaveh Elihu and Melad Haddad from Employee
Justice Legal Group     
 
Counsel
for Defendant/moving party: Lyne Richardson and Daniel Valenti from Ogletree,
Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart, P.C. 

 
Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment (filed on
03/08/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
Factual
Background
            Daniel Figueroa (Plaintiff) filed
suit for wrongful termination after he was terminated in October of 2020, by
his former employer Mohin, LLC (Defendant) after being hired six months earlier
on June 14, 2020. Plaintiff alleges that during his time working with Defendant
he was living with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). (Complaint, ¶16.)
Additionally, Plaintiff injured his hand in a non-work-related accident on
October 25, 2020. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff’s Complaint states that he
requested accommodations due to his disabilities. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) On October
29, four days after injuring his hand, Plaintiff arrived for his scheduled
shift. (Complaint, ¶ 20.) When his supervisor noticed the injury, Plaintiff was
instructed to take time off of work. (Id.) When Plaintiff contacted his
supervisor on December 1, 2020 and notified him he was able to resume work, his
supervisor allegedly responded, “We do not have any availability for you,” “I
have to let you go.” “…you are always going to the bathroom, and I cannot deal
with it.”(Complaint, ¶21.) Plaintiff then filed suit.  
 
Procedural
Background
            Plaintiff filed a Complaint on April
7, 2022 containing seven causes of action against his former employer Mohini,
LLC (Defendant). The causes of action are as follows:
 
1.     Discrimination in Violation of Gov.
Code §§12940 Et Seq.;
2.     Retaliation in Violation of Gov.
Code §§12940 Et Seq.;
3.     Failure to Prevent Discrimination and
Retaliation in Violation Of Gov. Code §12940(K);
4.     Failure To Provide Reasonable Accommodations
In Violation Of Gov. Code §§12940 et seq.;
5.     Failure to Engage in a Good Faith
Interactive Process in Violation Of Gov. Code §§12940 et seq.;
6.     Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy; and
7.     Declaratory Judgment.
            The motion now before the Court is
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the
Motion; no reply was filed.  
 
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff
submitted several evidentiary objections with their opposition, primarily to
the Declaration of Daniel E. Valenti. All objections are overruled.
    

            Likewise,
Defendant submitted several evidentiary objections with their reply, primarily
to the Declaration of Melad Haddad (Haddad Decl.). All objections are
overruled.     
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
            “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)
            As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
            Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto.  
To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
            In their moving papers,
Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of
disability discrimination because Plaintiff was not disabled when he was
terminated. Plaintiff proffers no evidence that either IBS or the hand injury
suffered was a disability under the Fair Employment & Housing Act.
Therefore, absent such evidence no cause of action based on Plaintiff’s
disability can stand. Accordingly, the Motion is granted.  
   
            Defendant negates
Plaintiff’s claim of a disability
            Defendant’s initial
burden is to present facts that negate an essential element of Plaintiff’s
claim. Plaintiff’s claim is based on discrimination and wrongful termination
because of an actual or perceived disability. 
            FEHA makes unlawful any
discrimination based upon several broad and inclusive protected categories. “It
is an unlawful employment practice, unless based upon a bona fide occupational
qualification…(a) for an employer, because of the...physical disability
[or]…medical condition … of any person, … to discriminate against the person in
compensation or in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”
(Gov. Code §12940(a).)
            In order to plead a
violation of FEHA based on disability, a plaintiff must allege the following:
(1) that plaintiff suffered from a disability, (2) plaintiff could perform the
essential duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3)
plaintiff was subjected to an adverse employment action because of the
disability. (Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th
47, 53.)
            In their moving papers,
Defendant attempts to show there was no disability nor discrimination based on
a disability. Defendant proffers the deposition of Plaintiff to demonstrate
that Plaintiff, not only did not have a disability when terminated, but did not
have a disability at all by his own admission. 
Q: When
you applied with Karim, did you notify him of any medical issues or
disabilities that you have?
A: No.
(Evidence ISO Defendant’s MSJ, Exh. 2, pg. 29, lines 19-22.)
            Moreover, when Plaintiff
informed his supervisor Karim of the need to use the restroom multiple times a
day because of IBS, Plaintiff said that Karim responded “Okay, its’ fine.” (Id.
pg. 32, line 6.) Plaintiff also never applied for disability benefits. (Haddad
Decl., Exh. 6, pg. 9, line 17.)
            The main contentions of
the parties surround the events that preceded Plaintiff’s termination. On
October 25, 2020, Plaintiff injured his hand in a non-work-related incident
which required immediate medical attention. Plaintiff testified in his
deposition that he did not remember if he called his supervisor after the
injury. (Evidence ISO Defendant’s MSJ, Exh. 2, pg. 89, lines 18-22.) Plaintiff
was terminated the same month. When Ketan Sharma (Sharma), the owner of
Defendant, was asked why, he stated that Plaintiff was fired because he
abandoned his position after being a “no-call, no-show” for three days. (Haddad
Decl., Exh. 1, pg. 149, lines 15-25.) Moreover, Sharma who made the final
decision to terminate Plaintiff (Haddad Decl., Exh. 1, pg. 149, lines 8-14),
was not aware of Plaintiff possessing any physical disability during
employment. (Haddad Decl., Exh. 1, pg. 156, lines 17-24.) 
            In their opposition
papers, Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff’s IBS forced him to use the restroom
multiple times, relieving him of his work duties, and that the laceration in
his hand limited his work duties, thereby constituting a disability. However, Plaintiff’s
arguments are unpersuasive, as little evidence is offered to counter
Defendant’s evidence. There is no evidence that Plaintiff experienced
discrimination based on his having IBS. At no point does Plaintiff contend that
his supervisor or any other coworker reprimanded or discouraged him from using
the restroom. Plaintiff also contends that whether Plaintiff abandoned his job
is disputed. However, even by Plaintiff’s own admission, he does not recollect
whether he informed Defendant about the hand injury after his termination, does
not know if he was scheduled after his injury, and does not know if he complied
with his schedule. (Evidence ISO Defendant’s MSJ, Exh. 2, pg. 126 and 129.)
             Without substantial evidence to dispute
whether (1) Plaintiff had a disability and (2) whether Plaintiff was
discriminated against and terminated for said disability, Plaintiff’s claims
fail. Accordingly, the Motion is granted. 
            
Conclusion and ORDER
            Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.