  Case Number:  23TRCV04127    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  P  



Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Alexander
  Vyborg,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04127




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Ruling on Defendant LBK Consulting, Inc.’s Demurrer without Motion to Strike 
 




 
LBK
  Consulting Inc, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 
 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:  March 20, 2024
Department
P, Judge David K Reinert
 
Demurrer without Motion
to Strike 
 
Moving
Party:  Defendant LBK Consulting, Inc.
Responding
Party:  Plaintiff Alexander Vyborg
 
Ruling: 
          The demurrer is SUSTAINED
as to the breach of contract claim WITH LEAVE TO AMEND and OVERRULED as to the
negligent misrepresentation claim. 
 
The
Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff
Alexander Vyborg (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant LBK
Consulting, Inc. d/b/a Kreiss Home Furnishings (“Defendant”) for (1) Breach of
Contract; and (2) Fraud and Deceit — Negligent Misrepresentation.
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant demurrer. On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
March 14, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on
the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant’s counsel, Brett Rubin,
provides a declaration where he states that he sent a meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff’s counsel, outlining the defects in the Complaint and the grounds for
the demurrer. (Rubin Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel disagreed and provided
reasons as to why he believed the Complaint was sufficient. (Id. at ¶
5.) Counsel for the parties spoke again but were unable to informally resolve
the dispute. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Thus, the meet and confer requirement is
satisfied. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
            “To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
 
Defendant
contends that the complaint fails to adequately plead the existence and terms
of a written contract and alleges breaches that do not correspond to any
promises within the contract. It argues that the purported breaches relate to
an expectation for the furniture to fit in a certain space and to have certain
attributes, which were not specified in the written contract.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the complaint clearly alleges a written
contract, including specific terms regarding the furniture to be delivered and
its cost. Plaintiff contends that the breach of contract is adequately pled by
alleging that the delivered items did not meet the specified requirements or
expectations laid out in the contract.
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff entered into a written contract with Defendant
for the purchase and delivery of custom-designed furniture for his residence,
for which he paid a total of $58,420.00. (Compl. ¶¶ 8-9.) It is further alleged
that upon delivery, Plaintiff discovered substantial defects and
non-conformities in the furniture, resulting in his inability to use it for its
intended purpose. (Id. ¶ 11.) These defects and non-conformities
include, but are not limited to, incorrect sizing, incorrect base designs, and
failure to include specified features such as shelving and proper sealant
application. (Id.) Plaintiff asserts that he provided timely notice of
these issues Defendant and ultimately rejected the furniture based on its
non-conformity with the contract. (Id. ¶¶ 12-23.) 
 
The
Court finds that the Complaint does not provide sufficient facts regarding whether
Defendant breached the contract. Although Plaintiff sufficiently pleads the existence
of a contract, specific terms of that contract, and identifies alleged
breaches, Plaintiff fails to show that the parties agreed to the terms that
were allegedly breached. Specifically, Plaintiff does not allege that the
written contract required Defendant to guarantee the size, firmness or
clearance room for any of the items would meet with Plaintiff’s preferences,
even if those preferences were entirely different than the measurements
contained in the written contract between the parties.
 
Thus,
the demurrer as to the breach of contract claim is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendant
argues that the negligent misrepresentation claim is effectively barred by the
statute of limitations applicable to negligence actions and does not meet the
pleading standards required for fraud. It states that Plaintiff has not
demonstrated justifiable reliance on any misrepresentations made by Defendant.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that the negligent misrepresentation claim is
properly characterized as a form of deceit, subject to a three-year statute of
limitations, and adequately alleges the elements of such a claim, including
misrepresentation and justifiable reliance.
 
“[A]
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation typically is subject to a
two-year limitations period. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 339; Ventura
County Nat. Bank v. Macker (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1528, 1530–1531, 57
Cal.Rptr.2d 418. See generally, 1 Schwing, Cal. Affirmative Defenses, supra, §
25:21, pp. 1415–1416, fns. 8–9.) That same two-year period generally applies to
actions ‘upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded upon an
instrument of writing....’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. 1.) A cause of action
for fraud or mistake is governed by a three-year statute of limitations. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) And the limitations period for a written
contract is four years.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1316.” “Where more than one statute might apply to a
particular claim, ‘a specific limitations provision prevails over a more
general provision.’” (Id.) 
 
Although
the statute of limitations for negligent misrepresentation is generally two
years, it may vary depending on the specifics of the case. For instance, in William
L. Lyon & Associates, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 1294, the court held that negligent misrepresentation claims
against a real estate broker and a dual listing agent, founded on negligence or
fraud, could be subject to the fraud limitations period of three years, or the
professional negligence limitations period of two years from discovery.
“[W]hether a breach of that duty constitutes negligence or fraud depends on the
particular circumstances of each case. [Citation.] Consequently, there is no
clear line establishing when a fiduciary's breach of the duty of care will be
merely negligent and when it may be characterized as constructive fraud.
However, a breach of a fiduciary duty usually constitutes constructive fraud.”
(Id. at p. 1313.) The court reached a similar conclusion in the Bank
of New York Mellon v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 935, where a
claim of constructive fraud or negligent misrepresentation was governed by the
three-year statute of limitations for an action for relief on the ground of
fraud or mistake. Thus, determining the statute of limitations for a negligent
misrepresentation claim in this context hinges on whether the allegations
relate more closely to negligence or fraud. 
 
Here,
the Court finds that although there are characteristics of both, it appears
that it is more akin to fraud. This is evidenced by Defendant’s
misrepresentations regarding the customization and suitability of the furniture
for Plaintiff’s home, offered within a professional service context that
implied accuracy and reliability. (See Compl. ¶¶ 27-32.) Defendant’s assertions
about furniture dimensions and design, intended to induce Plaintiff into a
purchasing decision, coupled with his justified reliance on these professional
assurances. (Id. ¶¶ 33-35.) While negligence—through a failure to
exercise due care—is evident, the context, the inducement based on specialized
expertise, and the significant detriments suffered by Plaintiff align the case
closer to the effects typically associated with fraudulent actions. Thus, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to Plaintiff’s negligent misrepresentation
claim.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as
to Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim WITH LEAVE TO AMEND and OVERRULES the
demurrer as to Plaintiff’s negligent misrepresentation claim.