 Case Number:  21STCV30186    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T 21STCV30186 McLellan v  Temple City [TENTATIVE] ORDER: Defendant City  of Temple City’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  Introduction  The City of Temple City (Temple  City) moves for summary judgment of the Complaint, which contains only one  cause of action for dangerous condition of public property.  Plaintiff Anne McLellan (Plaintiff) opposes  the motion. Procedure Temple City objects to  Plaintiff’s separate statement, which contains additional undisputed material  facts, arguing that Code of Civil Procedure section 437(c), did not authorize  Plaintiff to provide additional undisputed material facts.  (Objections to Plaintiff’s Undisputed  Material Facts, filed on January 3, 2025, p. 2; Plaintiff’s Response to  Defendant Temple City’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, filed  on December 27, 2024, pp. 17-24 [listing additional undisputed material  facts].) However, California Rules of  Court, rule 3.1350(f)(3) states: “If the opposing party contends that  additional material facts are pertinent to the disposition of the motion, those  facts must be set forth in the separate statement.” Therefore, Temple City’s  objection to Plaintiff’s separate statement is overruled. Evidentiary Objections The Court also overrules  Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections (i.e., Nos. 1 to 22) and Temple City’s  evidentiary objections (Nos. 1 to 15).  Discussion The Complaint alleges that on or  about March 4, 2021, Plaintiff was on a jungle gym at Temple City, taking a  group photo, and as she was walking on the steps of the jungle gym, she  “tripped on a defective stair, including a raised lip, causing her to fall” and  sustain injuries.  (Compl., Par. 11.)  “Public property is in a  ‘dangerous condition’ when it ‘creates a substantial (as distinguished from a  minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property ... is used  with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be  used.’  [Citations.]”  (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71  Cal.App.5th 508, 518; Gov. Code, sec. 830, subd. (a).) “The court’s analysis of whether  a walkway defect is trivial involves as a matter of law two essential  steps.”  (Huckey v. City of Temecula  (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105 (“Huckey”).) “‘First, the court reviews  evidence regarding type and size of the defect.”  (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th, at p.  1105.)  For example, “[s]idewalk  elevations ranging from three-quarters [3/4] of an inch to one and one-half [1  and ½] inches have generally been held trivial as a matter of law.” (Id. at p.  1107.) “‘If that preliminary analysis  reveals a trivial defect, the court considers evidence of any additional  factors [bearing on whether the defect presented a substantial risk of  injury].’”  (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th,  at p. 1105.)  Specifically, the court  “must also consider the nature and quality of the defect, the time of day and  lighting conditions when the accident occurred, and whether there is evidence  any one else has been injured by the same defect.”  (Stathoulis v. City of Montebello (2008) 164  Cal.App.4th 559, 568.)  “‘If these  additional factors do not indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a  reasonably careful person, the court should deem the defect trivial as a matter  of law ....’  [Citation.]”  (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th, at p. 1105.) Here, Temple City has submitted  evidence showing that the alleged defect on the stepladder that allegedly  caused Plaintiff to fall was trivial and additional factors do not indicate the  defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person. Glen Raphael  (Raphael), a claims adjuster of Carl Warren & Company (Temple City’s  third-party administrator), testifies that on May 13, 2021, two months after  the incident, he measured the deflected stepladder where Plaintiff allegedly  fell and found that the smallest deflection was approximately ¼ inch with the  largest being approximately 1-1/4 inch.   (Temple City’s Separate Volume of Evidence (VOE), Raphael Decl., Par. 3,  7.)  The “rise” of the stepladder steps  was approximately 9 inches tall.   (Raphael Decl., 7.)  Temple City  has also submitted the declaration of Samuel DeFillipo (DeFillipo), a  recreational consultant specializing in playground safety with a B.A. in  Recreation and a Master’s Degree in Recreation Administration from the  University of New Mexico at Albuquerque, New Mexico.  (DeFillipo Decl., Par. 1.)  Since 1997, DeFillipo has been the managing  party at PlaySafe, LLC, which is a national company that works with states,  counties, municipalities, private industries, and school districts to create  the safest play environment for children of all ages.  (DeFillipo Decl., Par. 2.)  DeFillipo testifies that “[a]fter examining  the photographs taken by Glen Raphael on May 31, 2021, and based upon [his]  examination of the subject equipment as well as my experience in the field of  playground safety, [DeFillipo] determined that the subject jungle gym  playground feature was intended for children 5 to 12 years of age who are the  intended users.”  (DeFillipo Decl., Par.  7.)  “Moreover, the stepladder is not a  staircase utilized for ‘ingress’ and ‘egress’ as those phrases are typically  used in the context of the Uniform Building Code for buildings. While the  stepladder can be used to access and exit the play structure, it is designed to  be a ‘play feature’.  The seemingly odd  and unequal run/rise ratio (8 inch run/9 inch rise) is so that children can  climb/crawl up them, hence the designation of the stepladder as a ‘play  feature.’”  (DeFillipo Decl., Par. 8.)  According to DeFillipo, “[t]he minor tread  deflection on the stepladder step did not pose a substantial risk of injury to  its intended users; i.e., children who use the stepladder for  climbing/crawling, nor was the stepladder designed for traditional use as a  staircase for access/exit by adults which is not a normal and customary use of  such a stepladder.”  (DeFillipo Decl.,  Par. 12.)  Finally, Temple City submits  the declaration of its Personnel Analyst, Karen Johnson (Johnson), whose duties  included taking notices of claims filed against the City.  (VOE, Johnson Decl., Par. 2.)  Johnson testifies that she reviewed the  City’s Notice of Claim records from 2016 through the date of the incident and  found no Notice of Claim (and Johnson does not have personal recollection of  any Notice of Claim) alleging issues regarding the steps or gaps at the jungle  gym.   (Johnson Decl., Par. 4, 5.) The Court finds that through the  above evidence, Temple City has met its burden of establishing that the  stepladder at issue was not in a dangerous condition.  Therefore, the burden shifts to  Plaintiff to show a triable issue of material fact exists as to her first cause  of action for dangerous condition of public property.  In opposition, Plaintiff submits  the deposition transcript of Temple City’s Person Most Knowledgeable Sayo  Elizalde (PMK).  During the deposition,  counsel asked the PMK: “The condition of the bottom step with the protruding  nose, before anything was done to it, do you believe that condition was  safe?”  (Declaration of Daniel DeSantis,  filed on December 27, 2024, Exhibit F – Elizalde Depo., p. 22:14-16.)  The PMK answered: “You know, obviously it  wasn’t, you know.”  (Elizalde Depo., p.  22:18-19.)  Therefore, the PMK believed  the stepladder that allegedly caused Plaintiff to fall was unsafe.  Plaintiff also submits the declaration of her  expert witness, Mark J. Burns (Burns), who is a licensed general building  contractor and a California-certified building inspector.  (Declaration of Mark J. Burns, filed on  December 27, 2024 (“Burns Decl.”), Par. 2.)   Burns opines that based on his inspection of the jungle gym, the  stepladder at issue constituted a tripping hazard with a height differential  between the subject nosing and tread surface measured 17/32 inch.  (Burns Decl., Par. 9.)  “The existence of the 17/32-inch height  differential created a dangerous condition for step ladder users because a  height differential of this magnitude is certainly significant enough for a  shoe front or heel to catch at the edge of the height differential and cause a  pedestrian to trip and stumble forward.”   (Burns Decl., Par. 9.)  Burns  concedes that the jungle gym is designed for 5 to 12-year-olds, but opines that  it was “clearly foreseeable that parents supervising children and other adults  would utilize the play structure and [the] step ladder.  This is corroborated by the sign at Live Oak  Park showing parental supervision was not only expected but recommended  ….”  (Burns Decl., Par. 13.) The Court finds that through the  above evidence, Plaintiff has met her burden of showing that triable issues of  material fact exist regarding whether the stair step that allegedly caused her  to trip and fall was in a dangerous condition.  Accordingly, the Motion for  Summary Judgment is DENIED.  IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.