 Case Number:  24VECV03240    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T 24VECV03240 TRAFTON V GENERAL MOTORS
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant
General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the first through fourth causes of action; and DENIED as to the
fifth cause of action.
Defendant
General Motors LLC is ordered to file an Answer to the First Amended Complaint
within 20 days.
Introduction

Defendant
General Motors LLC (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Phil Trafton’s (Plaintiff)
First
Amended Complaint (FAC).  Defendant
demurred to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action (COA) for fraudulent inducement –
concealment.  Defendant moved to strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.
Discussion
Defendant
argued that the concealment claim is time-barred.  The statute of limitations for fraud claims
is three years ((Code Civ. Proc., sec. 338(d).) 
Defendant notes that Plaintiff purchased his vehicle in November 1, 2018
(FAC, par. 6), but did not commence this action until July 8, 2024, and did not
allege any facts to justify the late filing. 
Furthermore, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s allegations concedes that
he discovered the defects in his vehicle “within the applicable express
warranty period ….” (FAC, par. 11.)  This
argument is unpersuasive.
In
opposition, Plaintiff correctly notes that the fraudulent inducement –
concealment (COA) is not time-barred because the running of the statute of
limitations does not appear “clearly and affirmatively” on the face of the FAC.  Further, Plaintiff’s allegations that he
discovered the defects “within the applicable express warranty period …” is not
an absolute bar to his fraud claim. (FAC, par. 11.)  The warranty contract attached to the FAC
indicates that Plaintiff’s purchase included various warranties covering the
car bumper-to-bumper, as well as the car’s powertrain, with terms of “the first
4 years of 50,000 miles, whichever comes first[,]” and “the first 6 years or
70,000 miles, whichever comes first[,]” respectively.  (FAC, par. 7, Exh. A, p. 7.)  Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer based on
the statute of limitations is OVERRULED.
Defendant
claims that Plaintiff failed to present sufficient facts allegations to support
a concealment claim.  Pleading fraudulent
inducement by concealment requires: (1) concealment of a material fact, (2) a
duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) intentional concealment or
suppression of the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) that the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiffs sustained damage.  (CACI No. 1901; see also Rattagan v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 41 (Rattagan).) The same specificity
pleading standard for affirmative fraud applies to pleading fraudulent
inducement by concealment, but “the focus of the inquiry shift to the unique
elements of the claim. [Citations.]” (Rattagan, supra, at p. 43.)  Thus, in a concealment claim is based on a
defendant’s duty to disclose arising from the defendant’s exclusive knowledge,
the complaint must also specifically allege “(1) the content of the omitted
facts, (2) defendant’s awareness of the materiality of those facts, (3) the
inaccessibility of the facts to plaintiff, (4) the general point at which the
facts should or could have been revealed, and (5) justifiable and actual
reliance, either through action or forbearance, based on the defendant’s
omission.” (Id., at p. 43-44.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to specifically allege the facts that Defendant
failed to disclose; that Defendant knew of those facts at the time Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle; what advertising materials Plaintiff reviewed and relied
upon for his purchase where Defendant could have disclosed these facts; how
long prior to purchasing the vehicle Plaintiff viewed such materials; and
whether those materials were prepared by GM. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff failed to plead specific facts demonstrating Defendant’s intent to
defraud.
However,
Plaintiff’s FAC includes the following allegations, in satisfaction of the
elements for pleading fraudulent concealment described by the Rattagan Court:
(1) Plaintiff has experienced various symptoms of a transmission defect during
the operation of his vehicle, including hesitation upon acceleration and harsh
shifts (Transmission Defect), as well as a dead battery that required
replacement (FAC, par. 21, 60-61); (2) based on information and belief, prior
to Plaintiff purchasing his vehicle, Defendant acquired knowledge that its
8-speed transmissions, such as the one installed on Plaintiff’s vehicle, had
the Transmission Defect that Plaintiff later noticed based on pre-production
testing data, early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect,
aggregate warranty data, and other sources of internal information, and even
issued internal technical bulletins to its dealers concerning this Transmission
Defect (Id., par. 62, 64-67); (3) Plaintiff did not have access to know about
the Transmission Defect prior to purchasing the car because Defendant
aggregated its knowledge through internal sources not available to consumers,
and Defendant’s communications regarding the Transmission Defect were only
distributed internally, not to customers (Id., par. 62, 64-67); (4) as a
reasonable customer, Plaintiff interacted with sales representatives regarding
the vehicle he purchased and viewed Defendant GM’s advertisement and marketing
materials, which did not reveal the Transmission Defect (Id. par. 63, 67); and (5)
Defendant’s failure to disclose the Transmission Defect was material because
the symptoms created a safety hazard to Plaintiff’s use of the vehicle, and
Plaintiff would not have purchased the vehicle if he had known about the
Transmission Defect (Id., par. 61, 63, 67, 72-73). These facts, as alleged by
Plaintiff, are sufficient to establish the elements of a concealment if
Plaintiff can also demonstrate the existence of a duty to disclose.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to allege facts giving rise to a duty to disclose
because there was no transaction involving direct dealings between Plaintiff
and Defendant. A duty to disclose a material fact can arise if: (1) it is
imposed by statute; (2) the defendant is acting as plaintiff’s fiduciary or is
in some other confidential relationship with plaintiff that imposes a
disclosure duty under the circumstances; (3) the material facts are known or
accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows those facts are not known or
reasonably discoverable by plaintiff (i.e, exclusive knowledge); (4) the
defendant makes representations but fails to disclose other facts that
materially qualify the facts disclosed or render the disclosure misleading (i.e.,
partial concealment); or (5) defendant actively conceals discovery of material
fact from plaintiff (i.e., active concealment). 
(Civ. Code, sec. 1710; Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 41.)
“Circumstances
(3), (4), and (5) presuppose a preexisting relationship between the parties,
such as ‘between seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor
and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.
[Citation.] All of these relationships are created by transactions between
parties from which a duty to disclose facts material to the transaction arises
under certain circumstances.’ [LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
337 (LiMandri).] ‘Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct
dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the
defendant and the public at large.’ [Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 312 (Bigler-Engler).]” (Rattagan, supra, at p. 41.)
Defendant
contends that there is no duty disclose in this case because Plaintiff does not
allege that he purchased the Subject Vehicle directly from Defendant, and
therefore there was no direct transaction between Plaintiff and Defendant. This
argument is incorrect. Although a manufacturer does not have a transactional
relationship with the “public at large,” (Bigler-Engler, supra, at p. 312), a
vendor does have a duty to disclose material facts “not only to immediate
purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to
expect the item will be resold.” (OCM Principle Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859-60.) The facts here are
also distinguishable from Bigler-Engler. In that case, the plaintiff was a
patient who sued a physician for medical malpractice, the physician’s medical
group, and the manufacturer of the medical device involved. (Bigler-Enger,
supra, at p. 284.) Here, however, Plaintiff was a purchaser of the product, not
merely a person on whom the product was used.
Further,
although Plaintiff did not purchase his vehicle directly from Defendant, he did
enter a direct contractual warranty agreement with Defendant. (FAC, par. 6-7,
Exh. A; see LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 336 (“parties entering into
any kind of contractual agreement.”)) Plaintiff also pled sufficient facts to
demonstrate Defendant’s duty to disclose based on their exclusive knowledge of
the Transmission Defect affecting the vehicle (FAC, par. 62, 70a-70b), actively
concealing this information (Id., par. 27, 29, 35-36, 64, 67-68, 71-72, 75,
76), and intent to induce Plaintiff into purchasing the vehicle (Id., par. 72).
(See, e.g., Collins v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 249, 255-259 (as
modified Dec. 28, 2011, finding plaintiffs sufficiently plead common law fraud
in connection with defendant’s failure to disclose a material fact, citing
LiMandri, supra).) Accordingly, Plaintiff has pled sufficient, specific facts
for a fraudulent concealment claim and Defendant’s demurrer on this basis is
OVERRULED.
Defendant
also argues that the concealment claim is barred by the Economic Loss Rule
(ELR). In Rattagan, the Supreme Court extended its decision in Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979 (Robinson), holding
that fraudulent inducement by concealment, like fraudulent inducement by
affirmative misrepresentation or fraud and deceit, is also exempted from the
ELR, and that a plaintiff can assert an independent claim of fraudulent
concealment in the performance of a contract. (Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at
p. 38.) Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to
survive general demurrer. Therefore, the concealment claim is not barred by the
ELR, and Defendant’s demurrer on this basis is OVERRULED.
The
Demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED.
Defendant
moved to strike the request for punitive damages made in Prayer, par. D.
Defendant argued that punitive damages are not recoverable under the first four
COAs for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civ. Code, sec.
1790 et seq. (The Act)) because civil penalties are “akin to punitive damages.”
(Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174,
184-185; Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d
218, 228 (Troensegaard).) Damages under The Act included a refund of the
purchase price or replacement of the vehicle and, under certain circumstances,
a civil penalty not to exceed two times Plaintiff’s actual damages. (Civ. Code,
sec. 1794.) Civil penalties are awarded if the trier of fact finds Defendant
willfully violated its obligations. (Civ. Code, sec. 1794(c).) 
Plaintiff
cited to several federal cases to dispute Troensegaard. (See Brilliant v.
Tiffin Motor Homes, Inc. (N.D. Cal. July 7, 2010) 2010 WL 2721531; Clark v. LG
Elecs. U.S.A., Inc. (S.D. Cal. Oct. 29, 2013) 2013 WL 5815410; Romo v. FFG Ins.
Co. (C.D. Cal. 2005) 397 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1240.) Although the federal cases may
have opined otherwise, the Court chooses to exercise its discretion in finding
the federal cases to be unpersuasive. Because our California Courts of Appeal
opined that civil penalties under The Act are “akin to punitive damages” and
there is no California case law opining that punitive damages Civil Code
section 3294 can be pled or awarded under The Act, the Court finds Defendant’s
argument persuasive.
Plaintiff
also asserted that punitive damages and civil penalties may be sought
simultaneously at the pleading stage. (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256-57 (Clauson).) However, Clauson is distinguishable from
the allegations in the instant action. The Clauson court opined that plaintiff
could plead punitive damages under the common law tort claim of invasion of
privacy and simultaneously plead civil penalties under the statutory claim for
unlawful wiretapping pursuant to Penal Code section 637.2, subdivision (a). The
Court of Appeal did not opine that punitive damages under Civil Code section
3294 could be pled under the statutory claim for unlawful wiretapping.
Plaintiff is attempting to argue that Civil Code section 3294 punitive damages
can be pled under The Act. However, Plaintiff’s argument is without any
supportive legal authority.
The
motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
first through fourth COAs.
As
to the request for punitive damages under the fifth COA for fraud, the Court
finds that the fifth COA is sufficiently pled to survive the general demurrer,
as reviewed above, and thus the claim is sufficient to support the fraud
element required for punitive damages. (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 3294.) The Court
does not find Defendant’s argument against punitive damages to be persuasive.
The
motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED as to the fifth COA.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK
TO GIVE NOTICE.