


[1] All undesignated statutory references are to this
code.


[2] Petitioner did not move to compel Sewell’s
deposition. Further, the City objected to the notice of deposition on multiple
grounds, not merely relevance. (See Pet.’s Objection Exhs. K, L.)  Petitioner does not specify the legal basis
upon which Sewell’s declaration would be “inadmissible” in these circumstances
even if the City “refused to make him available for deposition.”  


[3] Neither Petitioner nor Respondent has submitted a
copy of CPRA Request #20-588. The petition summarizes part of the request,
while Petitioner’s declaration paraphrases the request.  (Pet. ¶ 6; Barham Decl. ¶ 32.) Petitioner’s
summary includes certain additional content that Respondent contends was not
part of the original request. LAPD analyst Shavonne Robinson, who processed the
request, provides a “verbatim” list of the categories of records
requested.  (Robinson Decl. ¶ 3.) The
court reproduces above the “verbatim” list from Robinson’s declaration.  
 


[4] Petitioner has withdrawn his demand for production of
the original Lecia data files and MDT printouts. (Reply 4:8-15; 6:9-10; Reply
Barham Decl. ¶ 2.) Accordingly, except where relevant to other issues, the
court does not discuss the two withdrawn requests. Petitioner also indicates
LAPD produced Officer Fuentes’ BWC video and Petitioner located the Cooke OIS
bullet scene diagram after he filed his Opening Brief. Petitioner contends,
however, LAPD must produce those records without redactions of street addresses.
(Reply 5:27-6:1, 6:22-24.) Accordingly, the address redaction issue alone is discussed
herein.
 


[5] For a discussion of the contents of “metadata,” see
Declaration of Dwight Cook, generally, and Crews v. Willows Unified School
District (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1368, 1372, fn. 2.


[6]
Further, “individuals have a substantial privacy interest in
their home addresses.” (City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1019.) “In determining whether the public interest in
nondisclosure of individuals’ names and addresses outweighs the public interest
in disclosure of that information, courts have evaluated whether disclosure
would serve the legislative purpose of ‘shed[ding] light on an agency's
performance of its statutory duties.’ ” 
(Ibid.) Petitioner has not developed any argument suggesting disclosure
of the private home addresses in the metadata would shed light on LAPD’s
performance of its statutory duties. 
Accordingly, the public interest in disclosure of home address
information is minimal, and there is a clear overbalance on the side of
confidentiality.


[7] Because the CPRA “was modeled on its federal
predecessor,” the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the “judicial construction
of the FOIA . . . serve[s] to illuminate the interpretation of its California
counterpart.” (Regents of the University of California v. Superior Court
(2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 383, 400.)
 


[8] Relatedly, CPRA Request # 22-1746 at paragraph H
sought “[a]ny reports concerning photographing Shellie Cooke at L.A.
County-U.S.C. Medical Center including any written requests to photograph her.”
(Robinson Decl. ¶ 4.)


[9] Petitioner stated in his initial declaration “LAPD
Dispatch assigned to the involved officer a ‘tac frequency,’ i.e., separate
radio frequency channel devoted solely for the Cooke incident-related
broadcasts.” (Barham Decl. ¶ 33.F.) 
Petitioner did not argue in his Opening Brief LAPD assigned Frequency 35
only to the Cooke incident.


[10] In light of the court’s conclusion, it need not
decide whether Petitioner was required to request a physical inspection of the
FID investigatory files in his CPRA Requests. 



[11] The City argues, and submits evidence, the diagram
referred to in paragraph 33.G of Petitioner’s declaration “is not an LAPD
record created for the investigation of the 2017 OIS incident; rather, it was
created specifically for litigation in a civil action that was filed in October
2018, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 18STCV00882.” (Opposition 10:26-28;
see Kelly Decl. ¶ 3.) Petitioner does not respond to or dispute this evidence
in reply.  


[12] “The Leica C10 scanner that FID used to conduct the
survey scans for the March 6, 2017 OIS investigation was an early-generation
scanner that was very sensitive and had limited capabilities and features
compared to what has come out on the market since.” (Sewell Decl. 
¶ 4.)

