 Case Number:  23STCP02575    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  86 600 FOOTHILL OWNER, LP v. CITY OF LA CAÑADA
FLINTRIDGE  
Case Number: 23STPC02575 [Related to Case No.
23STCP02614]
Hearing Date: February 2, 2024 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE 
 
 
Respondents, City of La Cañada Flintridge, the
City of La Cañada Flintridge Community Development Department, and the City of
La Cañada Flintridge City Council (collectively, Respondents), move for an
order consolidating this action (the 600 Foothill Proceeding), for all
purposes, with the related action, California Housing Defense Fund v. City
of La Cañada Flintridge, Case No. 23STCP02614 (the CHDF Proceeding).  Petitioners, 600 Foothill Owner, L.P. and
CHDF (collectively, Petitioners) have filed separate oppositions to the
motion.  Petitioners-Intervenors the
People of the State of California, ex rel. Rob Bonta and the California
Department of Housing and Community Development (collectively, Petitioners-Intervenors),
who were granted leave to intervene in the CHDF Proceeding, have not opposed
the motion.
 
The motion is denied. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
The Motion is Procedurally Defective 
 
California
Rules of Court (CRC), Rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1) specifies a notice of
motion to consolidate “must: . . . (B) Contain the captions of
all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown
first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated.”  (Emphasis added.)  
 
Respondents
filed a notice of motion in the 600 Foothill Proceeding only. Thus, Respondents
failed to comply with CRC, Rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1)(C). In addition, the
notice of motion does not list the CHDF Proceeding in the caption as required
by CRC, Rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1)(B).
 
CRC,
Rule 1.5, subdivision (b) specifies the word “ ‘must’ is mandatory.” Respondents’
failure to comply with the applicable CRC results precludes the court from
granting the motion. (See Cal-Air Conditioning, Inc. v. Auburn Union School
Dist. (1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 655, 673 [noncompliance with “mandatory”
statutory duties “has an invalidating effect”].)  
 
Respondents concede the procedural violations but
contend Petitioners have suffered no prejudice by their failure to comply with
the CRC. Petitioners-Intervenors,
who
intervened in the CHDF Proceeding on December 20, 2023, have not filed an
opposition and, as a result, have not waived the procedural defect.[1]
Respondents do not address the potential prejudice to Petitioners-Intervenors
from their failure to comply with CRC, Rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1)(B) and
(C), including failure to give notice in the CHDF Proceeding. Respondents also do
not address the mandatory nature of CRC, Rule 1.5.
 
On January 24, 2024, in the 600 Foothill Proceeding,
Respondents filed an application for relief from the failure to comply with CRC,
Rule 3.350 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
Respondents did not calendar the application for hearing with the court; they
purported to calendar it for hearing today, February 2.
 
The application suffers from its own procedural
defects. Even assuming the matter had been calendared with the court for
hearing, Respondents were required to provide 16 court days notice of the
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (a)(13).) In addition, Respondents did
not file a similar application in the CHDF Proceeding.
 
Moreover, Respondents’ counsel does not claim he
committed excusable neglect—he relies upon the mandatory relief provision
contained within Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). That
provision, however, authorizes relief only if the attorney’s neglect 
resulted in a “default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment” or a “default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client.”  (See generally Shayan v.
Spine Care & Orthopedic Physicians (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 167, 170 [“the
provision for mandatory relief does not apply absent an actual default, default
judgment or dismissal”].) As Respondents’ counsel’s neglect and/or mistake did
not result in a default, default judgment, or dismissal, Respondents may not
obtain relief under the mandatory relief provision of Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b)—it just does not apply.
 
Based on the issues with
Respondents’ application for relief, the application is denied.
Respondents’ motion to consolidate
is also denied because of the failure to comply with the mandatory requirements
of CRC, Rule 3.350.
 
Even assuming the court disregarded
the procedural issues with the motion, the court would deny the motion on its
merits.
 
Consolidation is Not Appropriate Given the
Differences Between the Two Proceedings and the Prejudice to CHDF
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision
(a) states: 
 
When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court,
it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.  
 
“[T]here are . . . two types of consolidation: a
consolidation for purposes of trial only, where the two actions remain
otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation or consolidation for all
purposes, where the two actions are merged into a single proceeding under one case
number and result in only one verdict or set of findings and one judgment.” (Hamilton
v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.)
 
Respondents move for “complete consolidation” of
the 600 Foothill Proceeding and the CHDF Proceeding. Respondents argue “both
cases directly arise from and relate to common questions of law and fact with
respect to the City’s Housing Element and rezoning efforts as they relate to
the approval process for 600 Foothill’s Project.” (Memo 5:8-10.)  
 
As the court noted when considering Respondents’
demurrer in the CHDF Proceeding on November 22, 2023, “both proceedings concern
the City’s decision the Builder’s Remedy Application of . . . 600 Foothill
Owner, LP, was incomplete.” (CHDF Proceeding, Order filed 11/22/23 at 1, fn.
1.) The two proceedings present some common questions of law or fact, including
whether Respondents failed to adopt a substantially compliant Housing Element
and whether Respondents properly determined 600 Foothill Owner, LP failed to
submit a complete builder’s remedy application to Respondents.  
 
That said, the court disagrees with Respondents’
conclusion “there is a complete overlap between the two actions.” (Memo 5:10.) A
cursory review of 600 Foothill Owner, LP’s Opening Brief (filed December 29,
2023) and its Table of Contents shows 600 Foothill Owner, LP
raises many claims and issues that need not be
resolved in the CHDF Proceeding. 600 Foothill Owner, LP’s claims under the
Permit Streamlining Act, Density Bonus Law, and Subdivision Map Act and its
fair hearing claim (ninth cause of action) raise questions of law and fact not
alleged in the CHDF Proceeding. In contrast to the claims asserted in the 600
Foothill Proceeding, the CHDF Proceeding pleads a single cause of action for
violation of the Housing Accountability Act with a derivative claim for
declaratory relief.
 
The CHDF Action, in contrast, pleads
only a single writ cause of action for violation of the Housing Accountability
Act, along with a claim for declaratory relief. 

 
In addition, there is the question of
Respondents’ appeal of the court’s denial of Respondents’ special motion to
strike the fair hearing claim (ninth cause of action). Thus, issues related to
a stay could delay adjudication of CHDF’s claims upon consolidation or create
legal uncertainty about the issue. (See Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Oracle Corp.
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1185 [“[H]owever unsound an anti-SLAPP motion may
be, it will typically stop the entire lawsuit dead in its tracks until an
appellate court completes its review.”] See also Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 195 [“the perfecting of an appeal
from the denial of an anti-SLAPP motion stay[s] further trial court proceedings
on the merits”].)[2]
 
“[I]t is possible that actions may be
thoroughly ‘related’ in the sense of having common questions of law or fact,
and still not be ‘consolidated,’ if the trial court, in the sound exercise of
its discretion, chooses not to do so.” (Askew v. Askew (1994) 22
Cal.App.4th 942, 964.) Here, even though the actions involve some common
questions of law or fact, there are important distinguishing factors that weigh
against complete consolidation of the two proceedings.  
 
Further, the significantly larger
number of claims in the 600 Foothill Proceeding, combined with the possibility
of delayed adjudication from the stay, demonstrates consolidation would be
prejudicial to CHDF. Such facts related to prejudice also weigh against consolidation.
(See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d
428, 431-432.)  
 
Consolidation Is Not Necessary to Promote
Judicial Economy and/or Avoid Duplication 
 
Petitioners also argue consolidation is
unnecessary because the two proceedings have been related and have been
coordinated for trial. The court agrees.
 
As summarized by CHDF: 
 
The
two cases have been related. (See Order, filed Aug. 7, 2023.) They have been
scheduled for conferences and motion hearings together. (See, e.g., City’s
Notice of Ruling and Scheduled Dates, filed Oct. 31, 2023.) They have been
scheduled for trial together, and briefing on the merits is already underway.
(See Minute Order, filed Nov. 22, 2023; Minute Order, filed Nov. 22, 2023 in
600 Foothill action; CalHDF’s Mot. to Issue Writ of Mandate, filed Dec. 29,
2023; State’s Opening Brief, filed Dec. 29, 2023; 600 Foothill’s Opening Brief,
filed Dec. 29, 2023 in 600 Foothill action.) (CHDF Opposition 4:10-16.)  
 
Given that the two actions will be decided in a
bench trial and have been coordinated for purposes of trial and briefing,
consolidation of the two actions does not offer any material advantages in
terms of judicial economy. To the extent Respondents seek leave to file a
consolidated or “omnibus” opposition brief (see below), that request may be made
to the court without consolidation of the two actions.  
 
The motion to consolidate is denied.
 
Respondents’ Proposal to Submit an Omnibus
Opposition Brief 
 
In reply, Respondents indicate they “offered to
withdraw Respondents’ Motion to Consolidate and asked in exchange that
Petitioner’s [sic] agree (subject to Court approval) for Respondents to
file an omnibus opposition brief of 57 pages, equaling the number of pages of
briefing filed by all three Petitioners on December 29, 2023, in their opening
briefs.”  (Reply 5:8-11.)  Respondents report “Petitioners declined to so agree, . . . .” (Reply 5:11)
 
That Petitioners declined such an
offer has no bearing on whether consolidation should be granted. Respondents
have not filed an ex parte application or motion for the court to
authorize the filing of an omnibus opposition. It is not clear if Respondents
are making that request now. If Respondents are so requesting, Petitioners have
not had an opportunity to respond to the request. 
 
The court will address the issue
during the hearing.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to consolidate is denied.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
February 2, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 
 


