  Case Number:  22STCP02209    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  86 BARHAM v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Case Number: 22STCP02209 
Hearing Date: February 2, 2024
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 
 
Petitioner, E. Thomas Barham, Jr., an attorney, seeks
a writ of mandate directing Respondent, City of Los Angeles, to comply with
Petitioner’s requests, under the California Public Records Act (CPRA),
Government Code[1]
section 7921.000. Petitioner request and order requiring
the disclosure of certain public records held by the Los Angeles Police
Department (LAPD) related to the non-fatal officer-involved shooting of
Petitioner’s client, Shellie Cooke.  
 
Respondent’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of
Exhibit A is granted.  
 
Petitioner’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration
of Shavonne Robinson and the Declaration of John Sewell are overruled.[2]
 
BACKGROUND
 
Petitioner is an attorney admitted to practice in
this state since 1982. Although he stopped accepting cases several years ago,
he still does consulting work as an attorney. His primary area of practice for
more than 30 years was police misconduct litigation. Petitioner also has law
enforcement experience. He was employed by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department from 1965 to 1981, when he resigned at the rank of lieutenant.
(Barham Decl. ¶¶ 2-14.)
 
Petitioner was a consultant to attorneys John C.
Burton and Dale Galipo, Shellie Cooke’s retained counsel in the matter of Cooke
v. City of Los Angeles, et.al., Los Angeles Superior Court case number
18STCV00882. Petitioner summarizes the lawsuit and his consultant work as
follows: 
 
Cooke’s lawsuit alleged battery, negligence and
violation Bane Act (Cal. Civ. Code § 52.1). The events arose from the March 6,
2017 incident in which LAPD officers responded to Ms. Cooke’s home to assist
the Los Angeles Fire Department in response to a request by Cooke’s mother for
help getting her hospitalized for treatment of alcoholism. Ultimately, LAPD
officers shot and seriously injured Ms. Cooke after she had exited her home
carrying a rifle. The officers claimed Ms. Cooke had pointed the rifle at officers;
Ms. Cooke denied doing so, stating that she had turned away from the officers
without threatening them. . . . In the Cooke lawsuit my services included
reviewing the LAPD generated records of its FID (Force Investigation Division)
investigation into the Cooke shooting. Some of those records are under a
protective order. I also made numerous scene inspections while also reviewing
the following: LAPD records on the analysis of the physical evidence, body worn
camera recordings, digital recordings of LAPD radio and telephone
communications; the District Attorney Justice System Integrity Divisions [JSID]
report. . . . [I]n late 2022 the parties in this Cooke litigation reached a
settlement, and on April 21, 2023, the Los Angeles City Council approved it.
Under the settlement, the City paid Ms. Cooke $1,650,000.00 in exchange for
dismissal of her lawsuit. (Barham Decl. ¶¶
15-17.)
 
In 2019, Petitioner served as co-counsel
on a criminal case brought against Cooke in which she entered a no contest plea
to prohibited possession of a firearm. In April 2021, the Honorable Renee Korn
granted Petitioner’s motion for Cooke to withdraw her plea and dismiss the
information. Petitioner “intend[s] to seek an order to direct sealing and
destruction of Cooke’s arrest record for alleged violation of Welfare and
Institutions Code § 8103(i) (Prohibited possession of a firearm and Penal Code
§ 417(c) (Drawing or exhibiting a firearm in a rude, angry, or threatening
manner in the presence of a peace officer.)” (Barham Decl. ¶¶ 20-24.) 
Petitioner made two CPRA requests to obtain evidence to support a
petition to seal and destroy Cooke’s arrest records.  
 
CPRA Request # 20-588
 
On January 25, 2020, Petitioner submitted
a CPRA request to LAPD. The City assigned the request # 20-588. The request stated:
 
I am seeking the Total Station or other GPS crime
scene surveys with index of all evidence surveyed in connection of an officer
involved shooting on 3-6-17 at [ ] Edgecliffe Drive (DR 17020791-- FO16-17) in
light of SB 1421. 
 
Second, please provide any reports concerning search
and/or recovery of expended rifle bullets. 
 
Third, please provide duplicate originals of all crime
scene photographs, in digital format, (LYNX photo management system). 
 
Fourth, please a copy of the PDF presentation prepared
for the Chief of Police and/or Board of Police Commissioners. 
 
Fifth, please provide the body camera videos made by
Officers Secor, Blanchard, Munoz, Martin, Fuentes, Rattanpichetkul, Zarris and
Sergeant Gruner. 
 
Sixth, please provide the audio recordings and
computer assisted dispatch information for the call relating to the incident
and subsequent radio, MDT or other forms of communication in digital format.
 
(Robinson Decl. ¶ 3; Barham Decl. ¶ 32; Pet. ¶ 6; Ans.
¶ 6.)[3]
 
CPRA Request # 22-1746 
 
On February 22, 2022, Petitioner
submitted a CPRA request to LAPD. The City assigned the request # 22-1746. The
request sought:
 
All requests pertain [to] the Officer Involved
Shooting of Shellie Cooke on March 6, 2017 as reported in LAPD F016-17 and DR
No. 17-02-07191.
 
A. 3-6-17 Body worn camera video by Officer II Jose
Castaneda, serial number 37223, as well as his body worn camera video of- Axon
Body 2X81063669, made as he accompanied Shellie Cooke from [ ] Edgecliffe Drive
to L.A. County- U.S.C. Medical Center.
B. Any and all reports by Officer Fuentes concerning
LAPD F0J6-17 and DR No. 17-02-07191.
C. 3-6-17 Body worn camera video by Officer I Rubin
Fuentes, Jr. Axon Body 2X81090968, commencing at or about 5:45:34 p.m. through
5:53:40 p.m.
D. 3-6-17 Body worn camera video by Officer II James
Blanchard AXON 2 X81049986 (including enhancements thereof).
E. Bench notes made by Criminalist Alan Perez N3438
concerning his touch DNA swabbing of Shellie Cooke's .22 caliber Remington
rifle. 
F. Duplicate originals of all color photographs and
video images of Shellie Cooke taken at L.A. County-U.S.C. Medical Center
including placard(s) showing the date, time and identify [sic] of the
photographer. 
G. Bench notes and photographs of efforts to lift
latent and/or patent fingerprints from Shellie Cooke's .22 caliber Remington
rifle.
H. Any reports concerning photographing Shellie Cooke
at L.A. County-U.S.C. Medical Center including any written requests to
photograph her. 
I. Kindly provide still photographs in original
format, e.g. JPEG with metadata.
 
              (Robinson
Decl. ¶ 5; see also Pet. ¶ 11 and Ans. ¶ 11.)
 
LAPD’s Responses to the CPRA
Requests 
 
In response to Petitioner’s CPRA Requests
#20-588 and #22-1746 (collectively, CPRA Requests), LAPD produced public
records to Petitioner by way of access to a website. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Among other records, LAPD produced the
FID Executive Summary of the incident; 147 crime scene photos in PNG format;
the Office of Inspector General (OIG) Report of the incident; body worn video
(BWV) for several officers; 911 audio clips; the Use of Force Review Board
report; and various “supplemental” records and “addenda.” (Robinson Decl. ¶ 8.)
LAPD also produced “Leica Data”; JPEG photographs taken at a hospital; and
numerous JPEG crime scene photographs. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
Believing LAPD’s responses to the CPRA
Requests were deficient in certain respects, Petitioner initiated this
proceeding.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Under the
CPRA, individual citizens have a right to access government records. In
enacting the CPRA, the Legislature declared “access to information concerning
the conduct of the people's business is a fundamental and necessary right of
every person in this state.” (§ 7921.000; see also County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 57,
63.) 
 
Article 1, Section 3(b) of the
Constitution affirms “[t]he people have the right of access to information
concerning the conduct of the people’s business.” The Constitution mandates
that the CPRA be “broadly construed,” while any statute “that limits the right
of access” must be “narrowly construed.” (See National Lawyers Guild, San
Francisco Bay Area Chapter v. City of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.) The CPRA
“does not allow limitations on access to a public record based upon the purpose
for which the record is being requested, if the record is otherwise subject to
disclosure.” (§
7921.300.) “Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be available
for inspection by any person requesting the record after deletion of the
portions that are exempted by law.” (§ 7922.525, subd. (b).)
 
Petitioner
bears the initial burden of proof and persuasion in a mandate proceeding. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.) “To establish an agency has a duty to
disclose under [the CPRA], the petitioner must show that: 
(1) the
record ‘qualif[ies] as [a] ‘public record[ ]’ . . . ; and (2) the record is ‘in
the possession of the agency.’ ” (Anderson-Barker v Superior Court (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538.)  
 
While there
are recognized exemptions to production under the CPRA, CPRA exemptions must be
narrowly construed; the agency bears the burden of showing a specific exemption
applies. (Sacramento County Employees’
Retirement System v. Superior Court (2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.) “Because the agency has full knowledge of the contents of the
withheld records and the requester has only the agency’s affidavits and
descriptions of the documents, its affidavits must be specific enough to give
the requester ‘a meaningful opportunity to contest’ the withholding of the
documents.” (American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California v. Superior
Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 83; see also Getz
v. Superior Court (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 637.)
 
“
‘On questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s]
independent judgment.’ . . . . Interpretation of a statute or regulation is a
question of law.” (Christensen v.
Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Petitioner acknowledges LAPD produced
some of the requested records, but he contends LAPD failed to produce other
requested records. Petitioner also argues LAPD improperly redacted some of the
records produced. (Barham Decl. ¶¶ 32-34; Pet. ¶¶ 6-13.) Petitioner also seeks
physical access to: (1) “the LAPD’s FID investigatory file so that [he] can
review the non-confidential portions and where necessary, copy . . . the
original record”; and (2) “an LAPD (or City) computer terminal running the
software the City has to display on a computer monitor the Cook[e] OIS scene 3d
recreation.” (Barham Decl. ¶ 34.)  
 
The City asserts certain documents and
requests for physical inspection now sought by Petitioner were either not
requested in the CPRA Requests or not raised in the petition. The City argues such
documents and requests are not properly at issue through the petition. The City
also contends it properly responded to the CPRA Requests, and Petitioner’s
request to view files on LAPD computers should be denied.
 
To resolve the parties’ remaining
issues, the court addresses (1) categories of records remaining in dispute; (2)
Petitioner’s request for “physical access” to LAPD’s FID investigatory files;
and 
(3) OIS scene 3d files on a LAPD (or
City) computer terminal.[4]

 
///
Copies of the
Original Shellie Cooke JPEG Photographs with Original Metadata 
 
Petitioner contends the “City produced
259 JPEG computer files of digital photographs regarding the Cooke OIS
investigation,” but “the JPEG files the City produced did not reflect
the original metadata for each file.” (Opening Brief 6:8-10.) Petitioner “seeks
an order directing the City to copy the 259 photographs in their original JPEG
file format with all original metadata when originally created.” (Opening Brief
7:15-16.)[5]
 
LAPD produced to Petitioner
“[d]uplicate originals of all color photographs taken at hospital, JPEG format
(9 photos)” and “[c]rime scene photos in JPEG format (approximately 250
photos).” (Robinson Decl. ¶ 9 [items b and c].) Shavonne Robinson, a Management
Analyst in the Discovery Section – CPRA Unit of LAPD’s Legal Affairs Division, attests
“LAPD declined to provide Petitioner photos with the metadata attached to them –
i.e., with metadata contained in the photo file – because the metadata contains
home address information (house numbers) that LAPD needs to redact pursuant to Penal
Code Section 832.7(b)(6)(A)&(B).” (Robinson Decl. ¶ 16.) However, “LAPD has
been amenable to providing Petitioner with metadata in a format that omits or
redacts confidential and exempt information, and has provided Petitioner
disclosable, non-exempt items of metadata for each photo it provided to him.” (Robinson
Decl. ¶ 16.)   
 
Penal Code section 832.7, subdivision (b) specifies certain
personnel records of police officers that do not have confidential status. To
wit: 
 
(A) A record
relating to the report, investigation, or findings of any of the following: 
(i) An
incident involving the discharge of a firearm at a person by a peace officer or
custodial officer. 
(ii) An
incident involving the use of force against a person by a peace officer or
custodial officer that resulted in death or in great bodily injury.  
 
Penal Code section 832.7, subdivision (b)(6) provides an agency:
 
shall redact a record disclosed . . . only for any of the following
purposes:
(A)  
To remove personal data or information, such as a
home address, telephone number, or identities of family members, other than the
names and work-related information of peace and custodial officers. 
(B)  
To preserve the anonymity of whistleblowers,
complainants, victims, and witnesses. (Emphasis added.)
 
Section 832.7, subdivision (b)(6) expressly authorizes LAPD to
remove personal information from the metadata for the photographs, including
home addresses. The City submits unrebutted evidence LAPD has redacted the home
address information from the metadata, but it “has provided Petitioner
disclosable, non-exempt items of metadata for each photo it provided to him.”
(Robinson Decl. ¶ 16; see Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
For the first time in his Reply Brief, Petitioner argues “[b]y
disclosing Shellie Cooke’s street address . . . as the OIS scene of the
shooting and disclosing photographs and videos of the surrounding homes, the
City made public the street addresses of all surrounding homes . . .
[and] has waived any arguable claim to redaction of addresses.”
(Reply 4:23-5:4.)
 
“The salutary
rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be
considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them before.”
(Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) Petitioner
alleged in his petition that LAPD improperly redacted or “withheld” metadata
from the photographs. (Pet. ¶¶ 7, 10.) Petitioner did not assert in the
petition or his Opening Brief that LAPD waived the right to withhold any
confidential information. 
 
Although the
burden of proving a CPRA exemption falls on LAPD, Petitioner is not challenging
the statutory basis for exempting home addresses from any metadata. Rather,
Petitioner now asserts LAPD waived the statutory exemption. The burden
of proof is on the party asserting a waiver of a right. (See Evid. Code, § 500;
Stafford v. Attending Staff Assn. of LAC + USC Medical Center (2019) 41
Cal.App.5th 629, 639.) Accordingly, Petitioner does not show good cause to
raise his waiver argument for the first time in his Reply Brief. Accordingly, on
this procedural basis, the court rejects Petitioner’s contention LAPD waived
the statutory right to redact home address information from any metadata.
 
Alternatively, even if Petitioner did not
forfeit the issue, Petitioner fails to prove LAPD waived the redaction rights
specified in Penal Code section 832.7, subdivision (b)(6). Petitioner cites no
evidence LAPD has publicly disclosed the portions of the metadata from
the JPEG photographs that includes home address information. That LAPD may have
disclosed the address of the shooting in other public records does not
constitute a waiver of statutory exemptions with respect to the privacy of home
addresses, including the address where the shooting occurred.  (See Commission on Peace Officer Standards
& Training v. Sup.Ct. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 278, 296, fn. 5. [“An
individual's [privacy] interest in controlling the dissemination of
information regarding personal matters does not dissolve simply because that
information may be available to the public in some form”]; Pasadena Police
Officers Assn. v. Superior Court (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 268, 294 [“the
purpose and policy of the Pitchess statutes mandates that waiver of the privilege must be
express”]; see also Gov. Code,
§ 7921.505, subdivision (b) [CPRA waiver provisions].)[6] Petitioner provides no evidence
or argument to support his waiver argument as it relates to address information
in the metadata. Petitioner has not
developed any argument, including in his Reply Brief, LAPD failed to produce
all metadata that is not exempt from disclosure. (See Robinson Decl. ¶ 16; see
Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the evidence demonstrates LAPD fully
complied with the CPRA as to Petitioner’s request for Shellie Cooke JPEG photographs with
original metadata. 
 
The petition is denied as to such records.  
 
“Establishment
Photograph” and LAPD Property Report Regarding the Photographs 
 
Petitioner seeks an order “directing
the City to produce all property report(s) and ‘establishment photograph(s)’
for the 259 Cooke OIS incident photographs, including the nine (9) photographs
taken of Ms. Cooke at LAC-USC Hospital.” (Opening Brief 8:7-9.) In his
declaration, Petitioner attests: 
 
When law enforcement personnel photograph a crime
scene, law enforcement documents the photographs by a writing that identifies
who took the photographs, when and why. The documentation typically takes the
form of a property report that include a bar code. An example of an LAPD
establishment photograph for the Cooke OIS incident is Exhibit A. (Barham Decl.
¶ 33. C.)
 
The City argues “Petitioner did not place ‘establishment
photos’ or an LAPD ‘property report’ concerning crime scene photos at issue in
this case, because neither are mentioned in the Petition nor in the underlying
CPRA requests.” (Opposition 7:15-17.) 
 
As a general rule, Petitioner must demonstrate the City
failed to comply with the CPRA 
as to the
records requested and raised in the petition. The scope of a public records request is 
limited to records that are “reasonably described” in
the request submitted by the requester. 
(§ 7922.530, subd. (a); American Small Business
League v. United States Office of Management & Budget (N.D. Cal. 2022) 631
F.Supp.3d 804, 821 [explaining “a FOIA plaintiff may not expand the scope of
his request once his original request is made”].)[7]
Similarly, this CPRA proceeding, like legal actions generally in California, is
“framed by the pleadings.” (Tsemetzin v. Coast Fed. Savings Loan Assn.
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1342.) The parties’ legal briefs “may not create
issues outside the pleadings and are not a substitute for an amendment to the
pleadings.” (Ibid.)
 
Petitioner’s
CPRA Request # 22-1746 in paragraph F requested “Duplicate originals of all
color photographs and video images of Shellie Cooke taken at L.A. County-U.S.C.
Medical Center including placard(s) showing the date, time and identify
[sic] of the photographer.” (Robinson Decl. ¶ 4 [emphasis added].)[8]
Petitioner also pleaded his request for such records in the petition. (Pet. ¶
11.)
Petitioner’s request for “ ‘Establishment photograph[s]’ and
LAPD Property Report[s] identifying the photographer" (see Barham Decl. ¶
33.C) reasonably falls within the scope of paragraph F of CPRA Request #
22-1746. However, to the
extent Petitioner seeks other types of property reports or “establishment
photographs,” he did not place them at issue in the CPRA Requests or the
petition.  
Respondent submits evidence LAPD
produced all records within its possession responsive to CPRA Request # 22-1746
paragraphs F and H. Specifically, Robinson attests: 
 
The Department did not locate any record called an
‘establishment photo,’ but I did provide Petitioner with a record the
Department refers to as a ‘photographic record envelope’ - this is a photo that
identifies the name, serial number, and other information of the photographer
of the March 6, 2017 OIS incident. Addenda 11, also provided to Petitioner,
also identifies the photographer who took the photos for the OIS investigation.
The Department conducted a search for, but has not yet been able to identify any
other photographic record envelope photos. For example, we have not located one
that is specific to the hospital photos. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 12; see also ¶¶ 5-7,
8 aa.-vv., 9 d. [summarizing LAPD’s search for and production of
records].)  
 
In his reply declaration, Petitioner opines
LAPD must possess additional responsive records.  Specifically, he declares: 
 
An LAPD photographic record envelope must exist for
the nine photographs taken of Shellie Cooke at County-USC Hospital. I say that
because it simply inconceivable that in a police crime scene investigation
where photographs were taken, no record was made of when and where certain
photographs were taken, and who took them. As a law enforcement officer and
lawyer, I have been involved in some manner in hundreds of police crime scene
investigations. In every investigation there was a record made of photographs
any investigator or officer took, and that record included the by whom, when
and where information. This is not only standard practice, it is required by
California POST standards, standards that all California law enforcement
agencies must meet or exceed.  (Reply
Barham Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Petitioner had the initial burden to
prove LAPD’s possession of the disputed records. Because Petitioner does not
present this evidence until his reply declaration, he does not show good cause
to submit this evidence for the first time in reply. (See Anderson-Barker
v Superior Court (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538; Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre, supra, 149 Cal.App.3d
1002, 1010.) Moreover, the City has had no opportunity to respond to
Petitioner’s belief it is “inconceivable” other records exist that have not
been disclosed. The court rejects Petitioner’s new reply evidence for those
reasons. (Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Alternatively, even if the court
considers the reply evidence, the court finds Petitioner has not shown LAPD
failed to conduct a sufficient search for, or that LAPD possesses additional
records responsive to, paragraphs F and H of CPRA Request # 22-1746. Petitioner
concedes “[t]he LAPD’s ‘photographic record envelope’ is the equivalent of an
Establishment Photograph because the LAPD envelope identifies the photographer,
date, time and location of photographs.” (Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 4.) Robinson
declares, under penalty of perjury, LAPD “conducted a search for, but has not
yet been able to identify any other photographic record envelope photos. For
example, [LAPD has] not located one that is specific to the hospital photos.” (Robinson
Decl. ¶ 12.) Because the crime scene photographer was identified in a
photographic record envelope related to the Cooke OIS incident, Petitioner’s
reply evidence does not provide a sufficient reason to disbelieve Robinson’s
testimony on this point—that is, the court finds Robinson credible on the issue.
 
The petition is denied to the extent
Petitioner seeks an order “directing the City to produce all property report(s)
and ‘establishment photograph(s)’ for the 259 Cooke OIS incident photographs .
. . .”  (Opening Brief 8:7-8.)  
 
Redaction of
Street Addresses in Officer Fuentes’ BWC Video and OIS Bullet Scene Diagram   
 
Petitioner acknowledges after he filed
his Opening Brief LAPD produced Officer Fuentes’ BWC video and Petitioner
located the Cooke OIS bullet scene diagram. 
However, Petitioner contends LAPD must produce those records without
redactions for street addresses. (Reply 5:27-6:1, 6:22-24.)  For the reasons discussed as to the JPEG
Photographs, LAPD complied with the law when it redacted home address
information from the records at issue. (See Penal Code,
§ 832.7, subd. (b)(6); § 7922.000; City of
San Jose v. Superior Court, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at 1019.) Again, Petitioner does not show good cause to raise
a new argument in reply regarding LAPD’s purported waiver of the
confidentiality of home address information. Alternatively, on the merits,
Petitioner does not demonstrate LAPD waived the statutory exemption applicable
to home address information under Penal Code section 832.7, subdivision (b)(6).  
 
Accordingly, the petition is denied to
the extent it seeks to compel disclosure of home address information from Officer
Fuentes’ BWC video and the Cooke OIS bullet scene diagram.
 
Petitioner Did Not Request or Place
at Issue a Request for “All OIS Scene Diagrams” and LAPD Complied with the CPRA

 
Petitioner argues in his Opening Brief
LAPD failed to disclose certain “bullet path scene diagrams” and “[a]ll Cooke
OIS Scene Diagrams.” (Opening Brief 9:14, 17.) Petitioner apparently retreated
from that position in reply: “Initially, Petitioner will withdraw his demand
made in his opening brief for the bullet scene diagram as he has now located
it. However, the City must produce the diagrams without redactions for street
addresses, See Part III, supra.” (Reply 6:22-24.) Although Petitioner’s
intention is not entirely clear, as the court understands it, Petitioner withdrew
his request in his Opening Brief for disclosure of “[a]ll OIS Scene Diagrams” except for redacted home
address information. 
 
As discussed, Penal
Code section 832.7, subdivision (b)(6) authorized LAPD’s redaction of home
addresses. Petitioner did not meet his burden of demonstrating waiver.
 
To the extent
Petitioner continues to seek disclosure of “[a]ll OIS Scene Diagrams,” the
court finds the City’s arguments persuasive that Petitioner did not request
such records in the CPRA Requests or place such requests at issue in the
petition. Further, even if the requests were at issue, the City submits
evidence LAPD complied with the CPRA by producing various OIS scene diagrams. (See
Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 8, 14; Sewell Decl. ¶ 5; and Kelly Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Notably,
Petitioner does not respond to these arguments in reply. (See Reply 6; see Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor
Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure to
address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  
 
The petition is
denied to the extent Petitioner seeks further disclosure of “[a]ll Cooke OIS Scene
Diagrams.” (Opening Brief 9:15-21.)
 
LAPD Criminalist
Perez’s Handwritten Bench Notes Regarding the Touch DNA Swabbing of Cooke’s
Rifle 
 
CPRA Request #
22-1746 sought “Bench notes made by Criminalist Alan Perez N3438 concerning his
touch DNA swabbing of Shellie Cooke's .22 caliber Remington rifle.” (Robinson
Decl. ¶ 4.) In response, LAPD provided Petitioner
with multiple reports prepared by Perez: (1) a DNA Collection Analysis report,
listed as Addenda 20, prepared and signed by Perez; (2) a Bullet Path Analysis
report, Addenda 22, prepared by and signed by Perez; and (3) a property report,
Addenda 12, which lists as an item of property booked a “swab for possible
biological material” from the Remington rifle. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 8 jj., 8 qq.,
8 ss., and 17.)
 
Further, “LAPD . . . conducted a
supplemental search for ‘handwritten’ notes by Mr. Perez regarding the 2017 OIS
incident, and the search did turn up records.” (Robinson Decl. ¶ 17.)  Robinson elaborates under oath:
 
However, most of the handwritten notes contained
therein appear to relate to and focus on the general crime scene, evidence
collection, and the bullet path analysis—so they do not appear to be responsive
to Petitioner's request for notes relating to the DNA swab. The records do
contain a request form for an analysis of "Evidence Collection
DNA."  However – and other than the
bare reference to "DNA" – the form does not contain any handwritten
notes discussing the swabbing of the rifle. Although these records do not
appear to be responsive to Petitioner's specific request, LAPD is processing
the records and intends to provide them to Petitioner, with confidential and
exempt information redacted.   (Robinson
Decl. ¶ 17)
 
In reply, Petitioner asserts: 
 
Criminalist Perez made notes of his evidence gathering
that included the DNA swab. I know he did because (a) in the Cooke civil
lawsuit, Perez testified he did a touch DNA swab on the rifle (see Exhibit J,
Perez depo. @ 65:16-22, 68:1), and (b) a criminalist like Perez always make
[sic] a contemporaneous record of his evidence collection. Criminalists make
contemporaneous records because they know and are trained not to rely on
memory. See Exhibit G, POST Learning Domain 30 -- Crime Scenes, Evidence and
Forensics -- @ POST pp. 2–3 & 2-4. Because Perez prepared a typed report
following his collection of all items of evidence, see Exhibit H, he made notes
as he collected and/or processed individual items of evidence, including the
touch DNA swabbing (referenced in item 26 of Exhibit H, second page of the
report).  (Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
This reply evidence, available to
Petitioner when he filed his Opening Brief (see e.g., Reply Exh. J [testimony
dated June 2021], should have been presented with the Opening Brief to allow
the City a full and fair opportunity to respond to it. Petitioner again does
not show good cause to submit this new evidence in reply. (Balboa Ins. Co.
v. Aguirre, supra, 149 Cal.App.3d at 1010.)  The court
rejects and does not consider Petitioner’s new reply evidence on that basis. (Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Further, even if considered,
Petitioner’s new reply evidence does not demonstrate LAPD failed to conduct a
reasonable search for handwritten notes of Perez or that LAPD has handwritten
notes regarding his DNA
swabbing of Cooke's rifle. Even though Petitioner deposed Perez, he apparently
did not ask him whether he made handwritten notes regarding the DNA collection
from Cooke’s firearm. (Reply Exh. J.) Petitioner’s reply evidence does not
demonstrate a criminalist like Perez would have necessarily made handwritten
notes. Moreover, the City submits evidence it searched for “handwritten notes discussing the swabbing of the rifle;”
produced to Petitioner “a request form for an analysis of ‘Evidence Collection
DNA’ ”; and did not locate any other responsive records. (Robinson Decl. ¶
7.)  Respondent’s evidence proves it
complied with the CPRA, and Petitioner does not rebut that evidence.  
 
The petition is denied to the extent Petitioner
seeks further disclosure of handwritten bench notes regarding DNA swabbing of
Cooke’s rifle.  
 
The Complete
Unredacted Tactical Communications Recording
 
Petitioner acknowledges LAPD produced
“a copy of recorded tactical communications for the Cooke incident,” but he
contends LAPD’s disclosure was incomplete because the recording “stopped at
about 5:30 p.m. (1730 hours) whereas the Cooke shooting occurred 15 minutes
later at about 5:45 p.m. (1745 hours).” (Opening Brief 9:8-10; see also Barham
Decl. ¶ 33.F.)
 
The
City argues Petitioner did not place his request for “tactical communications”
at issue because it is not mentioned in the petition. (Opposition 8:16-17.)  The court agrees.  
 
Even
though the CPRA Requests sought disclosure of “audio recordings and computer assisted dispatch information for the
call relating to the incident and subsequent radio . . . communication in
digital format” (see Robinson Decl. ¶ 3), Petitioner did not include any
allegations concerning LAPD’s failure to comply with the CPRA as to this part
of the CPRA Requests. (See Pet. ¶¶ 2-13.) 
 
As noted, this CPRA petition is “framed
by the pleadings.” (See Tsemetzin v. Coast Fed. Savings Loan Assn., supra,
57 Cal.App.4th at 1342.) The parties’ legal briefs “may not create issues
outside the pleadings and are not a substitute for an amendment to the
pleadings.” (Ibid.)  In reply,
Petitioner cites no authority to the contrary and he also fails to address the City’s
assertion his request for unredacted tactical communications was not pleaded in
the petition.  (See Reply 6; Sehulster Tunnels, supra, 111
Cal.App.4th at 1345, fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a
concession”].)  Accordingly, Petitioner
has forfeited any argument concerning LAPD’s compliance with the CPRA for his
request for recorded tactical communications for the Cooke incident.
 
Alternatively, even if Petitioner did not
forfeit the issue, the City submits sufficient evidence LAPD produced to
Petitioner the “[a]udio recording of non-exempt portions of radio tactical
communications relating to the March 6, 2017 OIS.” (Robinson Decl. ¶ 10. b.)
Specifically, Robinson attests: 
 
I have reviewed a recording containing the tactical communications
relating to the 2017 OIS, but the recording also contains communications
relating to other incidents that LAPD officers responded to during the time of
the OIS. That is because the audio feed on which the communications took place
was for use by LAPD's entire Rampart Division, so the recording contains
communications about all incidents that the Rampart Division responded to
during the time of the 2017 OIS. Those other communications consist of calls
for service, LAPD responses thereto, and criminal investigations. Therefore,
those other communications are exempt from disclosure under the investigation
records exemption of Government Code Section 7923.600. As mentioned in
Paragraph 10, above, the Department has provided Petitioner with an audio
recording of non-exempt portions of the tactical communications, which relate
only to the March 6, 2017 OIS. (Robison Decl. ¶ 13.)
 
Petitioner argues “because officers responding to the
Cooke incident were told to use Frequency 35 as the assigned tactical
frequency, see Exhibit I, presumably only Cooke-related broadcasts were on that
frequency.” (Reply Barham Decl. ¶ 9.) Accordingly, Petitioner contends
Robinson’s testimony there were broadcasts on Frequency 35 between 5:30 and
5:45 p.m. and not related to the Cooke incident “is not credible.” (Reply
Barham Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
The City should
address its position as to this reply evidence at the hearing.[9]
Subject to argument or clarification, the court understands Robinson to testify
that the “tac frequency” used for the Cooke incident also recorded
communications about other incidents in the Rampart Division. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 13.) Although Petitioner
disagrees with the testimony, Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence
regarding the operations and tactical communications of LAPD, including the
Rampart Division, to support a finding that Robinson’s testimony is incorrect.
 
The petition is denied to the extent Petitioner seeks further
disclosure of the “Complete Unredacted Tactical Communications recording” for
the Cooke OIS incident. (Opening Brief 8:25.)
 
Physical Access
to LAPD’s Force Investigation Division (FID) Investigatory Files 
 
Petitioner seeks
physical access to the FID’s investigatory files for the Cooke OIS incident
“[t]o insure that he has copies of all the disclosable records he sought,” specifically
“all OIS scene diagrams, including the ones showing bullet path
trajectories.” (Opening Brief 11:17-19.)  
 
The City asserts “Petitioner
did not ask for the original investigation file in his underlying CPRA requests
or the Petition, nor did he seek to physically inspect the FID
investigation file in either his CPRA requests or the Petition, so he cannot
place this at issue for the first time in his opening brief.” (Opposition 11:17-20.)
The court agrees.
 
Petitioner does
not respond to the claim in reply. (See Reply 8; Sehulster Tunnels, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at 1345, fn. 16 [failure
to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].) Petitioner did not plead in
the petition he was seeking physical inspection of the FID investigatory
files.  Nor did he include in the
petition any allegations that the City could only comply with the CPRA by
allowing a physical inspection of the FID investigatory files. Accordingly,
Petitioner did not place his request for physical inspection of the FID
investigatory files at issue. (See Tsemetzin v. Coast Fed. Savings Loan Assn.,
supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at 1342, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at 1342.)[10]  
 
Alternatively, even if Petitioner
did not forfeit the issue, Petitioner does not show the City has a mandatory duty
under the CPRA to permit physical inspection of the FID investigatory files.
Petitioner relies on sections 7922.525, subdivision (a) and 7922.530,
subdivision (b) of the CPRA as support for his physical inspection claim. 
 
Section 7922.525, subdivision (a)
states: 
 
Public records are open to inspection at all times during the
office hours of a state or local agency and every person has a right to inspect
any public record, exempted as otherwise provided. 
 
Section 7922.530, subdivision (b)
states in pertinent part: 
 
A requester who inspects a disclosable record on the premises
of the agency has the right to use the requester’s equipment on those premises,
without being charged any fees or costs, to photograph or otherwise copy or
reproduce the record in a manner that does not require the equipment to make
physical contact with the record.  
 
Relatedly, section 7922.530,
subdivision (c) states: 
 
The agency may impose any reasonable limits on the use of the
requester's equipment that are necessary to protect the safety of the records
or to prevent the copying of records from being an unreasonable burden to the
orderly function of the agency and its employees. In addition, the agency may
impose any limit that is necessary to maintain the integrity of, or ensure the
long-term preservation of, historic or high-value records.  
 
Here, in the CPRA Requests, Petitioner sought
multiple LAPD records related to the Cooke OIS incident. In response, LAPD produced multiple public records to
Petitioner, which are available for review or download online (at no charge),
including the FID Executive Summary of the incident; 147 crime scene photos in PNG
format; the OIG Report of the incident; BWV for several officers; 911 audio
clips; the Use of Force Review Board report; Leica data files; and various
“supplemental” records and “addenda.” (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 8-9; Sewell Decl.
generally.)   In his petition, Petitioner
asserted LAPD failed to comply with the CPRA in certain respects.  However, Petitioner has not demonstrated that
at trial.  
 
In his Opening Brief, Petitioner specifically
asserted he needed to physically inspect the FID investigatory files to “be
assured he has all OIS scene diagrams, including the ones showing bullet path
trajectories.” (Opening Brief 11:17-19.) However, Petitioner has since
withdrawn his demand for OIS scene diagrams, including the bullet scene
diagram. (Reply 6:22-24.) Moreover, Petitioner did not request such records in the CPRA Requests or place
such requests at issue in the petition. (Opposition 11:17-20.) Even assuming the requests were properly at
issue, the City submits evidence LAPD complied with the CPRA by producing
various OIS scene diagrams. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 8, 14; Sewell Decl. ¶ 5; and
Kelly Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)[11]  Accordingly, Petitioner’s specific
justification for a physical inspection—to ensure he has all OIS scene diagrams—is
moot.  
 
Notably, for any FID investigatory
files that are disclosed pursuant to the CPRA, the City is required to redact
personal data; identifying information of witnesses; and confidential medical,
financial, or similar information. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 7; Pen. Code, § 832.7,
subd. (b)(6)(A)-(D).) Petitioner is not authorized by sections
7922.525, subdivision (a) and 7922.530, subdivision (b) to inspect that confidential information. 
 
LAPD is authorized to place “any
reasonable limits on the use of the requester's equipment that are necessary to
protect the safety of the records or to prevent the copying of records from
being an unreasonable burden to the orderly function of the agency and its
employees.” (§ 7922.530, subd. (c).)  The
evidence, summarized above, demonstrates
LAPD produced the records requested by Petitioner. LAPD’s production supports
the City’s contention “[i]t would therefore pose an unnecessary and
unreasonable burden to require LAPD to provide Petitioner with physical access
to records he already has.” (Opposition 12:7-8.) Of course, Petitioner is not
precluded from submitting a new CPRA request to the extent he seeks to inspect
records not previously requested.  
 
Finally, LAPD is
also authorized “to impose any limit that is necessary to maintain the integrity
of, or ensure the long-term preservation of, historic or high-value records.” (§
7922.530, subd. (c). See Robinson Decl. ¶ 15 & Exh. A;
Sewell Decl. ¶ 12 [high-value historical records].) Petitioner has not identified any
authority requiring an agency to allow a CPRA requester to conduct a physical
inspection of public records pursuant to sections 7922.525, subdivision (a) and
7922.530, subdivision (b) where the agency has produced the records requested
under the circumstances here.
 
The court finds neither the CPRA
Requests nor the petition requested a physical inspection of FID investigatory files.
Alternatively, Petitioner has not demonstrated he is entitled to such an
inspection where the agency has provided a fully responsive production. 
 
Physical Access
to LAPD Computer Terminal to View the Cooke OIS Scene Recreation and Leica Data Files 
 
Also citing sections 7922.525,
subdivision (a) and 7922.530, subdivision (b) for authority, Petitioner
contends “the City must make its Cooke OIS scene recreation [i.e., Leica data
files] available on a City or LAPD monitor, for Petitioner to view and record
(by Petitioner using his video camera to record what is being shown on the
monitor).” (Opening Brief 10:12-14; see Barham Decl. ¶ 34.)
 
Petitioner explains: “Leica-Geosystems
sells hardware and associated software for scanning and surveying crime scenes
to reproduce the scene visually in a 3D format viewable on a computer monitor.”
(Barham Decl. ¶ 25.) In addition, “LAPD used the Leica’s Crime Scene Survey
equipment and software at the scene of the 3/6/17 Cooke OIS.” (Barham ¶ 28; see
Sewell Decl. generally.)
 
Sewell’s “role in the March 6, 2017
OIS investigation was to document, starting at the scene of the incident, the
evidence and points of interest that were identified by the investigators and
firearms analysis unit, and [he] was the person who operated the Department’s
Leica C10 scanner to take scans to document those items.” (Sewell Decl. ¶ 3.)[12]  
 
In response to the CPRA Requests, LAPD
provided to Petitioner a flash drive, at no cost, that includes “all of the
same Leica C10 files and data – including raw scans and scan data – that LAPD
has from the investigation of the March 6, 2017 OIS incident.” (Sewell Decl. ¶
8; see also Robinson Decl. ¶ 9a.) While Petitioner asserted in his Opening Brief
certain Leica files were “missing and/or corrupted” in the production (Opening
Brief 5:27-28; Barham Decl. ¶¶ 29-33; and Salinas Decl. ¶¶ 13-14), the City submitted
evidence rebutting Petitioner’s statement. (Sewell Decl. ¶¶ 9-11.)  After consultation with his expert (Joel
Salinas), Petitioner withdrew his demand for further production of the Leica
data files. (Reply 4:12-13.)
 
Respondent also submits
evidence, unrebutted by Petitioner, that LAPD’s use of force records and files
are high-value, historical records. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 15 & Exh. A; Sewell
Decl. ¶ 12.)  Sewell attests: 
 
The Department views and treats records from use of
force and OIS investigations as historical records and, as such, has heightened
rules regarding their handling. Due to the high value and historical nature of
use of force investigation records, and the sensitive nature of the underlying
investigations – especially when they are still in progress – access to FID
servers containing such records is limited as to other the Department
employees. One reason to limit access is to maintain the integrity of the
investigation records and files, both for historical purposes and also because
other governmental agencies may need such records when conducting their own investigations.
With respect to the Leica files Petitioner would like to view, they are
maintained on a server that only FID’s Investigative Support Unit has access
to. Moreover, they are viewable only on computers – like mine – that have the
software needed to view the files. Allowing non-authorized persons to view
these files on restricted-access FID computers would compromise the integrity
of the files, and could also risk disclosure of other confidential, non-exempt
records and files stored on those computers. (Sewell Decl. ¶ 12.)  
 
Petitioner argues:

 
Subdivision (c) of § 7922.530 is
inapplicable because Petitioner nor [sic] does he seek himself to use a City or
LAPD computer or network; he seeks only to view on an [sic] City or LAPD
monitor (and record what is displayed on the monitor) the recreated Cooke OIS
scene based on the Lecia data files and whatever computer program the LAPD
uses. Furthermore, as it will be an authorized City employee who sits at the
computer, calling up the files and running the software, Petitioner will have
no contact whatsoever with any keyboard, software program, data file, or
hardware. Thus in no way will Petitioner be able to compromise the security of
either a computer or network, nor will he be able to alter, modify, change, or
delete any computer file. . . .  (Reply 7:22-8:1.)  
 
The plain
language of section 7922.530, subdivision (c) permits a public agency to impose
reasonable limits on a CPRA requester’s inspection of “historic or high-value”
records on an agency computer terminal to ensure “the integrity” of such
records. Petitioner’s computer expert, Dwight Cook, asserts it is impossible to
damage, compromise, or change computer files simply by viewing them on a
computer monitor. (Reply Dwight Cook Decl. ¶ 2.) However, Petitioner’s evidence
does not show that the “integrity” of sensitive records cannot be compromised
in other ways. Given the sensitive nature of FID investigations and the
information contained on FID computer servers, it is reasonable to infer that
viewing Leica files on a FID computer, even with an FID employee “calling up
the files,” could create security risks for maintaining the “integrity” of the
sensitive records and information on the FID computers.  The CPRA allows LAPD to place reasonable
limits on a request to view information on FID computers.  
 
As noted, Petitioner has not identified any
authority requiring an agency to allow a CPRA requester to conduct a physical
inspection of public records pursuant to sections 7922.525, subdivision (a) and
7922.530, subdivision (b) where the agency has produced the records requested
under the circumstances here.
 
Petitioner has not demonstrated
he is entitled to view the Cooke OIS scene recreation and
Leica data files on a LAPD computer terminal. LAPD has produced the original
Leica data files to Petitioner, and there is no evidence Petitioner has been
unable to review those files or the OIS scene recreation. Further, especially
since the complete Leica files have already been produced to Petitioner (and
the public), the City’s refusal to permit Petitioner to view the Cooke OIS
scene recreation and Leica data files on a LAPD computer terminal is a
reasonable limit needed to maintain the integrity of, or ensure the long-term
preservation of, historic or high-value records. (§ 7922.530, subd. (c).) 
 
The petition is denied
to the extent Petitioner contends that “the City must make its Cooke OIS scene
recreation available on a City or LAPD monitor, for Petitioner to view and
record . . . .” (Opening Brief 10:12-14.)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the petition is denied.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
February 2, 2024                                                                                                 
                                                                                                    ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


