 Case Number:  23STCV22661    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
Hearing Date: 12/3/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV22661 JEROME BENNETT
BEY vs. LAMAR WEEMS, II et al.
Moving Party: Defendant 1431 Promenade 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: 
 
IIED- GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
PUNITIVE DAMAGE – GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
Background
This action arises from
an incident where Defendant Lamar Weems II, evading police, drove into a crowd
at a carnival, injuring Plaintiff Jerome Bennett Bey (“Plaintiff”), who alleges
he was working as hired security for the event. Plaintiff’s complaint seeks
damages not only against the driver but also against the carnival organizers,
including Defendants Los Angeles Police Museum, Thomas Edward Baque, Gerald Ray
Baque, and Baque Bros. Concessions, Inc. (the “Baque Entities”). The complaint
asserts causes of action for negligence, negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention, premises liability, dangerous condition of public property,
intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED), and negligent entrustment.
The Baque Entities now move the Court for judgment on the pleadings with regard
to Plaintiff's IIED cause of action and prayer for punitive damages.
IIED
"The wrongful
conduct alleged in support of a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress must be conduct that is directed at the plaintiff"
(Shin v. Kong (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 498, 512 [95 Cal.Rptr.2d 304]).
Additionally, "[I]t is not enough that an act be outrageous to state a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. Intentional
means more than the nonaccidental nature of the wrongful act. That act must
also be directed at the plaintiff." (Smith v. Pust (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 263, 274).
Plaintiff does not
dispute or distinguish the legal authority cited by Defendant but argues that
Defendants fail to state which elements are missing to suggest Plaintiff cannot
bring his claim. Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, the issue is the element of
intentionality. 
Plaintiff argues that
he has specifically alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff contends that despite Defendants’
heightened duty and knowledge of a prior similar incident, Defendants authorized
and ratified the extreme and outrageous conduct of their agents. (Complaint at
¶¶ 36–38, 91.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants’ outrageous conduct
was a direct and proximate cause of his damages. (Complaint at ¶ 92.)
Paragraph 36-38, 91-92
of the Complaint states the following: 
36. Plaintiff is
informed and believes, and thereon alleges that the Baque Entities have had at
least one incident at a prior carnival involving a vehicle being driven through
safety barriers similar to those installed at the Carnival. Plaintiff is
further informed and believes, and thereon alleges that the Baque Entities were
aware that the barriers erected for the Carnival were not adequate for stopping
vehicles and posed a risk to attendees and staff. Plaintiff is further informed
and believes, and thereon alleges that this information was neither disclosed,
nor requested, as part of the special use permit application process for the
Carnival.
 37. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
thereon alleges that the Baque Entities and LA Police Museum knew, or
reasonably should have known that properly secured concrete k-rails were
capable of preventing unauthorized vehicles from entering the Carnival and that
plastic barriers were inadequate. Plaintiff is further informed and believes,
and thereon alleges that the Baque Entities and LA Museum opted not to use
concrete barriers or properly secure the barriers that were used at cross
street entrances to save money. 
38. Plaintiff is
informed and believes and thereon alleges that the Baque Entities and LA Police
Museum employed unqualified and unlicensed staff, agents, and/or contractors to
ensure the Carnival was properly secured.
91. Through Weems II
and the Baque Entities’ outrageous conduct as described above, said Defendants
acted with a discriminatory intent to cause, or with a reckless disregard for
the probability to cause, Plaintiff humiliation, mental anguish, and substantial
and enduring emotional distress. To the extent that said outrageous conduct was
perpetrated by certain agents of Weems II and/or the Baque Entities, said
Defendants authorized and ratified the conduct with the knowledge that
Plaintiff’s emotional and physical distress would thereby increase, and with a
wanton and reckless disregard for the deleterious consequences to Plaintiff. 
92. As a direct and
proximate result of said Defendants’ actions against Plaintiff, as described
above, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer general damages including
but not limited t significant and enduring emotional distress including humiliation,
mental anguish and physical distress, injury to mind and body, in an amount to
be established at the time of trial.
The allegations in the
complaint fail to establish that Defendants' conduct was directed at Plaintiff,
as required to sustain a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED) under California law. To meet the standard set forth
in Smith v. Pust (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 263, and reaffirmed in Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th
158, the wrongful conduct must be personally aimed at the plaintiff.
Generalized allegations of negligence or recklessness, without showing that
Defendants' actions were specifically directed at Plaintiff, are insufficient
to sustain an IIED claim.
Here, the complaint
alleges that the Baque Entities and the LA Police Museum failed to use adequate
barriers, opted for cost-saving measures, and employed unqualified staff to
manage the Carnival’s safety. These claims assert a general failure to maintain
safety measures and suggest negligence or recklessness with regard to Carnival
attendees as a whole, referencing prior incidents of vehicles breaching
barriers. However, there are no specific factual allegations that Defendants
acted with the intent to target Plaintiff individually or that Plaintiff’s
presence was a factor in their decisions.
Similarly, the
conclusory assertions in paragraphs 91 and 92, claiming "discriminatory
intent" or "reckless disregard" for Plaintiff’s emotional
distress, fail to connect the alleged conduct specifically to Plaintiff. These
statements amount to legal conclusions without factual support demonstrating
that Defendants’ actions were directly aimed at Plaintiff or intended to cause
harm to Plaintiff.
Accordingly, the
allegations do not meet the requisite pleading standards. Based on the
information alleged, it also appears unlikely that Plaintiff can allege that
Defendant's actions were directed against Plaintiff. Therefore, leave to amend
is denied.
Punitive Damage
Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages rests on paragraphs 91 and 94 of the complaint:
91. Through Weems II
and the Baque Entities’ outrageous conduct as described above, said Defendants
acted with a discriminatory intent to cause, or with a reckless disregard for
the probability to cause, Plaintiff humiliation, mental anguish, and substantial
and enduring emotional distress. To the extent that said outrageous conduct was
perpetrated by certain agents of Weems II and/or the Baque Entities, said
Defendants authorized and ratified the conduct with the knowledge that
Plaintiff’s emotional and physical distress would thereby increase, and with a
wanton and reckless disregard for the deleterious consequences to Plaintiff.
94. Defendants Baque
Entities’ conduct was oppressive and malicious in that it subjected Plaintiff
to cruel and unjust hardship in willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiff's
rights, health, and safety, thereby entitling Plaintiff to an award of punitive
damages. Such conduct, as detailed above, includes, but is not limited to: (a)
Baque Entitles’ use of plastic barriers despite knowledge of their
ineffectiveness based on prior incidents; and (b) a failure to disclose prior
incidents as part of the special use permit application process.
Plaintiff, in the
opposition, argues that Defendants understood their decision to use inferior
barriers would probably have injurious consequences to Plaintiff or others.
Plaintiff further alleges that the use of plastic barriers has resulted in
injuries in the past, yet Defendants decided to use these barriers to save
money.
Plaintiff must assert
specific facts to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice. There is a heightened pleading requirement for claims
involving punitive damages. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041–1042.) While ultimate facts may suffice for standard
pleadings, they are insufficient to meet the heightened requirements for
punitive damages.
The allegations in
paragraphs 91 and 94 of the complaint fail to meet the heightened pleading
standard for punitive damages under California law, as they rely on conclusory
statements rather than specific facts demonstrating oppression, fraud, or
malice. Paragraph 91 broadly alleges that Defendants acted with
"discriminatory intent" and "reckless disregard" but lacks
factual details showing how Defendants’ actions specifically targeted Plaintiff
or knowingly disregarded a substantial risk to him. Similarly, the assertion
that Defendants authorized and ratified their agents’ conduct is conclusory, as
it provides no description of specific decisions or actions evidencing
conscious approval of misconduct. Paragraph 94 further alleges that Defendants
acted with "oppressive and malicious" intent, subjecting Plaintiff to
cruel and unjust hardship in willful and conscious disregard of his rights,
health, and safety, by using ineffective plastic barriers and failing to
disclose prior incidents. However, these claims are devoid of supporting
details, such as the frequency of prior incidents, how Defendants became aware
of them, or whether they ignored warnings about the barriers’ ineffectiveness.
In Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court distinguished between risks
that are merely foreseeable and those that are necessarily probable, holding
that the latter is required to establish willful misconduct. In this case,
Plaintiff's allegations must demonstrate that the risk posed by the use of
plastic barriers was not merely foreseeable but necessarily probable to sustain
claims for punitive damages.
The Court does not find
that the risk posed by using plastic barriers, despite prior incidents, rises
to the level of being necessarily probable. For example, in the context of
drunk driving, the risk of hitting someone is foreseeable, as such events may
occur, but it does not rise to a high probability where drunk driving would
predictably result in a car accident, thereby becoming necessarily probable.
Similarly, while Plaintiff alleges prior incidents involving vehicles breaching
barriers, Plaintiff does not allege the frequency of such incidents. If more
than 50 percent of events involve vehicles driving into crowds, such a risk
could be deemed necessarily probable. Conversely, if such events occur in less
than only 1 percent of cases, the risk would be foreseeable but not necessarily
probable. Here, Plaintiff has not provided sufficient allegations to establish
the frequency of prior incidents or to show that the risk was necessarily
probable rather than merely foreseeable. Without such allegations, Plaintiff's
claim for punitive damages is insufficiently pled.
Furthermore, Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages against all Baque Defendants including multiple
individual defendants and corporate defendants. Because punitive damages must
be alleged with specificity, Plaintiff must articulate how each of the Baque
Defendants individually acted with willful and conscious disregard for the
rights or safety of others. Additionally, punitive damages against corporate
defendants are subject to special requirements under Civil Code § 3294(b),
which provides that "an employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant
to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice." Generalized
allegations against all defendants, without specifying the conduct and intent
of each, are insufficient to sustain a claim for punitive damages against
multiple defendants.
Under Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348, leave to amend should be granted where
there is a reasonable possibility that a plaintiff can cure defects in the
pleading. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory and fail
to distinguish the conduct of each Defendant. However, there is potential for
Plaintiff to provide additional facts clarifying the specific actions of each
Defendant and the frequency of prior incidents where vehicles drove into
crowds, thereby supporting a claim that the risk was necessarily probable.
Accordingly, the Court concludes that there is a reasonable possibility that
the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations can be cured
through amendment, and leave to amend is warranted.
Thus, the motion is
granted as to punitive damages, with leave to amend within 30 days.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 