 Case Number:  21STCV40243    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
¿¿ 
MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION
Hearing Date: 12/3/24
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV40243 ANDREA
MCCLELLAND vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
 
Ruling: DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Background
 
On November 2, 2021, Decedent Andrea McClelland filed the
underlying action alleging, among other claims, negligence arising from a motor
vehicle accident that occurred on February 2, 2021, which caused Decedent to
sustain injuries. Decedent passed away on June 25, 2022. Jasmine Brown,
Decedent’s surviving daughter and successor in interest, now moves the Court
for substitution pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 377.31.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A pending action or proceeding does not abate
by the death of a party if the cause of action survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.21.)¿“On motion after the death of a person who
commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or
proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)
 
The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration
under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating:
 
(1) The decedent’s name,¿ 
(2) The date and place of the decedent’s
death,¿ 
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent’s estate,”¿ 
(4) If the decedent’s estate was administered,
a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor in interest,¿ 
(5) Either of the following, as appropriate,
with facts in support thereof,
 
A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent's
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in the action or
proceeding.”¿ 
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to
act on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the
decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.”
 
(6) “No other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are true, under penalty
of perjury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.)
 
A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
Although the decedent’s death certificate was attached, the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32 have not been met. First, the
decedent’s successor in interest did not file a declaration; instead, the
decedent’s attorney filed the declaration. Because the successor in interest
failed to file a declaration, the following required information is absent:
 
1.  A statement that “[n]o proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate.”
2.  If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final
order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor in interest.
3.  One of the following statements, with supporting facts:
·       
“The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
·       
“The affiant or declarant is authorized to act
on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11
of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s
interest in the action or proceeding.”
4.  A statement that “[n]o other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding.”
 
As these requirements have not been satisfied, the motion is denied
without prejudice.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 