 Case Number:  23STCV05199    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
Hearing Date: 12/3/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV05199 JENNIFER ROSE
SIMMONS, et al. vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY et
al.
Moving Party: Defendant Robert De La Torre
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: Granted with leave to amend
 
Background
Plaintiffs’ operative
Fifth Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) alleges that on March 14, 2022, at the
Redline train platform in Los Angeles, passenger Kimberly Garrido was trapped
outside a moving train when her dog’s leash became stuck in the closing door.
Despite her efforts to alert personnel, the train moved, dragging her along the
platform and causing her to crash into concrete pilings, resulting in severe
injuries and ultimately her death on December 4, 2022.
Defendant Robert De La
Torre moves the Court for an order striking the following portions of the FAC:
(1) Paragraph 17 in its entirety; (2) Paragraph 18 in its entirety; (3)
Paragraph 19 in its entirety; and (4) the portion of the prayer at lines
11:13-14, which reads, “For punitive damages against Defendants ROBERT DE LA
TORRE and DOES 1-100.”
Pertinent parts of the
operative complaint pertaining to Defendant De La Torre’s punitive damages are
as follows:
The
horrifying fall occurred in Los Angeles, California, on the lower level of the
Redline train platform located at 7th Street and Figueroa on March 14, 2022, at
approximately 9:58 p.m. At this time and place, Kimberly Garrido was a
passenger on the train owned by DEFENDANT METRO, maintained by DOES 1-100, and
operated by its employee, Defendant ROBERT DE LA TORRE. Kimberly Garrido
attempted to exit the train onto the platform possessed and controlled by
DEFENDANT METRO. The train door suddenly and unexpectedly closed, and the leash
her dog was attached to remained in the door. While Kimberly Garrido was
outside of the train car with the leash and her dog inside the train car, she
tried to bang on the door to alert the train personnel that she and the leash
were trapped by the train car door. However, no train personnel responded to
the desperate cries of Kimberly Garrido, and the train began to leave the
platform. As the train moved forward, Kimberly Garrido attempted to desperately
detach the leash; however, she was unable to do so. With the leash still
attached around her waist and screaming for help, Kimberly Garrido fell face
first onto the platform and was forcefully dragged down the platform
approximately ten (10) feet when the leash finally and violently snapped.
Kimberly Garrido’s body continued down the platform approximately another ten
(10) feet due to the inertia created by the train. She violently crashed
head-first into the concrete pilings on the platform, sustaining severe
injuries to her head and body. Kimberly Garrido succumbed to these injuries on
December 4, 2022. Defendants DE LA TORRE and DOES 1-100 knew of the serious and
substantial likelihood that an accident like this could occur. 
(FAC ¶ 2)
Plaintiffs
are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that Defendants ROBERT DE LA
TORRE and DOES 1-100 engaged in said wrongful conduct with a conscious
disregard of the dangers such misconduct would and did create for the rights
and safety of the public, including decedent Kimberly Garrido. Plaintiffs are
further informed and believe, and thereon allege, on the date of the incident
on March 14, 2022, ROBERT DE LA TORRE and DOES 1-100 acted with malice in that
they engaged in despicable conduct in conscious disregard of the rights,
safety, and welfare of decedent Kimberly Garrido and Plaintiffs by reason of,
including but not limited to, knowingly and recklessly:
a. Failing to properly
maintain an awareness of its surroundings;
b.
Failing to exercise ordinary care for the safety of passengers;
c.
Failing to provide adequate safety/preventative equipment;
d.
Failing to provide adequate warnings;
e.
Failing to properly train agents and employees;
f.
Failing to use the utmost care and diligence for safe carriage, to provide
everything for that purpose, and to exercise to that end a reasonable degree of
skill;
g.
Failing to warn of, and make safe, dangerous conditions existing on the
premises.
(FAC ¶ 17)
Defendants,
and each of them, had prior knowledge of the dangers and risks that such
misconduct would and did create, including causing serious injury or death to
members of the public. Defendants ROBERT DE LA TORRE and DOES 1 through 100
further had full knowledge of the dangers associated with an accident of this
sort. Despite such knowledge, Defendants ROBERT DE LA TORRE and DOES 1 through
100 knowingly and recklessly continued operating the Redline rail cars without
proper warning, safety, and preventative equipment. Defendants continued
engaging in such misconduct in a willful and conscious disregard for the rights
and safety of the public in the interests of gaining financial profit and
political power. Considering the damages caused to decedent Kimberly Garrido,
it was highly foreseeable to any reasonable person or entity that Defendants
would cause serious injury or death to members of the public. Despite such
knowledge and understanding, said Defendants knowingly and recklessly continued
to operate the Redline railcar. 
(FAC ¶ 18)
Defendants
ROBERT DE LA TORRE and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, knowingly and recklessly
engaged in these actions and omissions in conscious disregard for public
safety. Said Defendants were on actual and constructive notice of the dangers
said acts created to the public, and Defendants DOES 1 through 100 had the
power to make changes that would eliminate such dangers to the public, but
these Defendants, and each of them, did not take any corrective measures in
conscious disregard for public safety. Said misconduct by Defendants ROBERT DE
LA TORRE and DOES 1 through 100, and each of them, by knowingly or recklessly
creating a substantial risk and high probability of injury or death, was
oppressive, despicable, highly reprehensible, and done in conscious disregard
for the rights and safety of the public, including decedent Kimberly Garrido
and the Plaintiffs. Said acts and omissions were ratified by managerial and
elected employees including DOES 1 through 100 and were carried out with the
consent of the officers, directors, and/or managing agents and elected
officials of Defendant METRO, including DOES 1 through 100. As such, the
imposition of punitive damages against individual Defendants ROBERT DE LA TORRE
and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, and each of them, is appropriate. 
(FAC ¶ 19)
Legal Standard¿ 
The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) 
The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
Punitive damages may be
imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) 
Clear and convincing evidence requires proof making the existence of a fact
highly probable— falls between the “more likely than not” standard commonly
referred to as a preponderance of the evidence and the more rigorous standard
of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.” (Conservatorship of O.B. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 989, 995.) 
“Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code section
3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm.
Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v.John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful
term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)¿¿¿ 
A plaintiff must assert
facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ To wit, there is a
heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.¿
(Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.).)¿¿ 
Discussion
While portions of the FAC
are pled with specificity, others merely assert legal conclusions. Plaintiffs
describe the circumstances surrounding the incident with vivid detail; however,
the FAC does not contain any allegation that Defendant De La Torre knew the dog
leash attached to the decedent’s waist was trapped by the train car door and
nevertheless intentionally drove the train forward or acted with willful and
conscious disregard for the obvious risk that the train would drag the decedent
along the platform.
While Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant engaged in wrongful conduct with a conscious disregard for the
dangers such misconduct created for the rights and safety of the public and had
prior knowledge of the risks that such misconduct could result in serious
injury or death, these allegations amount to legal conclusions rather than
factual assertions. Further, the FAC employs terms such as "conscious
disregard," "despicable conduct," and "malice," which
align with the legal standard for punitive damages under California Civil Code
§ 3294 but fails to link these claims to specific acts or omissions by
Defendant. Because punitive damages must be pled with specificity, Plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing what Defendant knew, when he knew it, and
how he deliberately disregarded those risks. These factual allegations are
absent here.
While Plaintiff
attempts to allege specific instances of malice, such as Defendant "failed
to properly maintain an awareness of its surroundings," "failed to
exercise ordinary care for the safety of passengers," and "failed to
provide adequate safety/preventative equipment" (FAC ¶ 17),  these allegations primarily describe acts of
negligence, not the willful and conscious disregard for rights or safety
required to support a claim for punitive damages. Negligence, even gross
negligence, is defined as a failure to exercise reasonable care under the
circumstances. In contrast, punitive damages under Civil Code § 3294 require
conduct that demonstrates malice, oppression, or fraud. Malice specifically
entails either an intent to harm or despicable conduct undertaken with a
willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. This level
of intent or willfulness is fundamentally distinct from the mere carelessness
or inattentiveness alleged in Plaintiff's claims.
Although this is
Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended Complaint, this marks the first motion to strike
filed against Plaintiff. Under Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348, leave to amend should be granted where there is a reasonable possibility
that a plaintiff can cure defects in the pleading.
Given
the gravity of the allegations and the potential for Plaintiff to provide
additional facts clarifying Defendant’s alleged conduct and intent, there is a
reasonable possibility that the deficiencies can be addressed through
amendment. Therefore, the motion to strike is granted with leave to amend
within 30 days. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 