  Case Number:  20STCV14594    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ JAYNE MONTARBO, Plaintiff(s), vs. STARBUCKS, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 20STCV14594 Hearing Date: January 7, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  I. BACKGROUND On April 15, 2020, plaintiff Jayne Montarbo (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against defendants Starbucks, Starbucks Corporation, Starbucks Coffee Company, Pam Michno (“Michno”), and Does 1 through 100 arising from her employment with Starbucks as a District Manager wherein Plaintiff alleges wrongful termination. The Complaint sets forth nine causes of action for (1) Disability Discrimination – against Starbucks, (2) Perceived Disability Discrimination  – against Starbucks, (3) Failure to Make Reasonable Accommodations – against Starbucks, (4) Failure to Engage in The Interactive Process – against Starbucks, (5) Violation of California Family Rights Act– against Starbucks, (6) Age Discrimination– against Starbucks, (7) Wrongful Termination– against Starbucks, (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – against all defendants, and (9) Negligent Supervision and Negligent Retention – against all defendants. On September 22, 2022, the Hon. Robert Draper granted in the motion for summary adjudication filed by defendants Starbucks Corporation dba Starbucks Coffee Company (“Starbucks”) and Pam Michno as to the Fifth, Sixth, and Eighth causes of action of the Complaint. The motion as to the Ninth cause of action was denied as to Starbucks, but granted as to Michno. The motion as to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Seventh causes of action, as well as the issue of Punitive Damages, were denied. (Min. Order, Sept. 22, 2022.)  On June 27, 2023, Starbucks filed a second motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication. On November 22, 2023, the Hon. Jill Feeney granted Starbucks’ motion for summary adjudication as to the First cause of action only. (Min. Order, Nov. 22, 2023.) Starbucks’ motion for adjudication as to the Second, Third, Fourth, Seventh, and Ninth causes of action, as well as to the demand for punitive damages, were denied. (Ibid.) At present, only the Second, Third, Fourth, Seventh, and Ninth causes of action remain against Starbucks as the remaining named defendants to the action. The trial date is set for January 21, 2025, with the fact discovery deadline to remain based on the November 18, 2024 trial date. (Min. Order, Oct. 28, 2024.) On October 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion seeking leave to file a First Amended Complaint to add two causes for Retaliation under Gov. Code §12940(g) and Labor Code §1102.5 against Starbucks. Plaintiff argues she was unaware that there was an additional investigation conducted by the Ethics and Compliance until July 12, 2024, and that Defendants obstructed discovery of this complaint by Human Resources made on behalf of Plaintiff weeks before her termination, which would support a claim for Retaliation under Government Code 12940 (h). Plaintiff contends these facts also support a claim for Whistleblower retaliation in violation of Labor Code 1102.5. Plaintiff argues the claims relate back to the original date of the filing of the complaint, such that they are not time-barred. On November 20, 2024, Starbucks filed an opposition. Starbucks argues the complaint was filed nearly give years ago, and that Plaintiff’s claim she found out that Starbucks investigated an alleged complaint she made in 2019 is untrue because Plaintiff testified during her deposition in 2021 that she was interviewed in connection with Starbucks’ investigation in 2019. Further, Starbucks argues that Starbucks’ investigation is a necessary element of a retaliation claim. Starbucks further asserts the claims are time-barred, and that Starbucks would be prejudiced by the leave to amend because Starbucks will not be able to take discovery on those proposed added claims since discovery closed nearly a year ago in February 2024, and Starbucks will not be able to file a motion for summary adjudication because trial is scheduled to begin in January 2025. On December 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. Plaintiff argues the claims are not time-barred, that the amendment would not delay the case for a lengthy period of time, and that Starbucks has been aware from the inception of the case that Plaintiff alleged Starbucks retaliated against her such that there is no need for Starbucks to adopt a new course of defense because Starbucks served discovery on the issue of retaliation.  II. LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  iII. discussion Plaintiff brings the motion pursuant to CCP §473 and CCP §426.50. Plaintiff argues that pursuant to CCP §426.50, leave to amend “shall” be granted if the party "who failed to plead the cause of action acted in good faith." However, CCP § 426.50 relates to compulsory cross-complaints. Here, Plaintiff is seeking to amend her Complaint – there is no cross-complaint involved for CCP §426.50 to apply. The relevant statute is CCP § 473, which provides that the court “may” allow a party to amend. Plaintiff seeks to add two causes of action under Gov. Code §12940 and Labor Code §1102.5. Plaintiff seeks to add allegations that after Plaintiff complained to HR, HR filed a complaint with Ethics and Compliance to report Plaintiff’s complaint against Michno; afterwards, Plaintiff reported to Ethics and Compliance the harassment by Michno; instead of taking corrective action against Michno, Michno terminated Plaintiff on pretext and false claims; Starbucks tried to get Plaintiff to accept a fraction of her salary as severance and to sign a release of all claims against them; and defendants terminated Plaintiff in violation of Gov. Code §12940(h). (Mot. 19:1-25; 20:1-5.) Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial. In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party. If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) Gov. Code §12940(h) provides that it is an unlawful employment practice, “[f]or any employer, labor organization, employment agency, or person to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part or because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under this part.” To make a claim under Labor Code §1102.5, which prohibits retaliation against employees for disclosing information relating to an employer’s alleged violation of state or federal statutes, a plaintiff must show (1) she disclosed information about her employer’s noncompliance with the law; (2) she was thereafter subjected to an adverse employment decision; and (3) a causal link between the protected activity and the adverse action. (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 287-288.) Both Gov. Code §12940 and Labor Code §1102.5 focus on the actions performed by Plaintiff and its causal link to the adverse employment action. Here, Plaintiff provides that she reported to Ethics and Compliance about Michno’s harassment. The parties heavily dispute Plaintiff’s participation and knowledge of the Ethics & Compliance investigation. Based on the evidence provided, it appears that Plaintiff knew at the time she filed this action that she had a potential retaliation claim against Starbucks based on her own report to Ethics and Compliance and her conversation with Steven Wood (“Wood”) from Business and Ethics. Plaintiff testified that she recalled speaking to Wood when he reached out to her, and that Wood made Plaintiff aware that a case was opened on Plaintiff’s behalf by Kim Truong, and Plaintiff spoke with Wood about her concerns. (Atalay Decl. Ex. G, 81:2-15.) This cuts against Plaintiff’s argument that it was “unbeknownst to plaintiff Human Resources complained to the Ethics and Compliance group on plaintiff’s behalf” (Mot. 8:5-6) and Plaintiff’s declaration that she “did not know that Ms. Troung from Human resources complained to Ethics and Compliance.” (Reply Gallagher Decl. ¶ 2.) Additionally, the Court does not see how Plaintiff’s contention that Starbucks failed to disclose the contents of the Ethics and Compliance Report during document production is relevant in terms of assessing whether Plaintiff could have diligently sought leave to amend earlier based on her own complaints and knowledge at the inception of this action. The Court also finds that prejudice would exist since the amendment would require delaying the trial date to allow Starbucks a fair opportunity to explore newly added Gov. Code §12940 and Labor Code §1102.5 claims, and for a timely motion for summary adjudication against newly added causes of action. This action is nearly five years old, fact discovery remains closed, and the Hon. Michelle Kim denied the last request to move the trial date. (Min. Order, Dec. 17, 2024.) The Court need not reach arguments about whether the causes of action are in fact time barred.  iv. conclusion Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the Complaint is DENIED. The Court requires more time to consider Plaintiffs’ two motions to compel. On the Court’s own motion, the Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Deposition of Steve Wood set for 01/07/2025 and Hearing on Motion to Compel complaints against Michno set for 1/7/2025 are continued to 01/24/2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 78 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 6, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 