 Case Number:  23STCV05798    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GLENN WRIGHT, et al., 
  
         vs.
 
EXODUS
  RECOVERY, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV05798
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 21, 2023



 
Defendant William
Wirshing, M.D.’s, demurrer to Plaintiffs Glenn Wright’s, Nina Woolfolk’s, and
all successors-in-interest to Le’Wayne Anthony Wright’s complaint is overruled
as to the 2nd cause of action.
 
Defendant
William Wirshing, M.D.’s, motion to strike is denied as to the 2nd cause of action for Violation
of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, in its entirety, as to
Wirshing, 18:16-27:9 (¶¶75-106), which includes claims for attorneys’ fees,
22:6, 26:22 (¶¶83, 104), and for punitive damages, 22:12, 26:28-27:9, (¶¶83,
106); Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief, “For punitive damages according to proof,”
38:8, Prayer ¶iv; and Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief, for “attorneys’ fees,”
38:14, Prayer ¶ix.
Defendant
William Wirshing, M.D.’s motion to strike is granted with 20 days leave to amend
as to the assertion in Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action for Professional
Negligence/Medical Malpractice, that “Plaintiffs are entitled to recover from
Defendants, and each of them, punitive damages according to proof at trial
pursuant to Civil Code section 3294,” 37:7-8 (¶132); and the 4th Cause of
Action, for Wrongful Death, asserting, “Defendants committed the acts stated
herein maliciously and oppressively, with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiffs,
thereby entitling Plaintiffs to punitive damages,” 37:27-28 (¶137).
The Court, sua
sponte, strikes the 2nd and 3rd causes of action brought by Glenn and Nina
in their individual capacities with 20 days leave to amend the 2nd and
3rd causes of action to indicate the causes of action are brought by Glenn and
Nina as Decedent’s successors-in-interest.
 
Defendants
Exodus Recovery, Inc.’s, Exodus Foundation dba Exodus Foundation for Recovery’s,
and Luana Murphy’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Glenn Wright’s, Nina Woolfolk’s, and
all successors-in-interest to Le’Wayne Anthony Wright’s complaint is overruled
as to the 2nd cause of action and sustained as to the 1st cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants Exodus Recovery, Inc.’s, Exodus Foundation dba
Exodus Foundation for Recovery’s, and Luana Murphy’s motion to strike is denied
as moot.
 
Defendants Pathways Medical Association’s and Todd Nathan,
N.P.’s, demurrer to Plaintiffs Glenn Wright’s, Nina Woolfolk’s, and all
successors-in-interest to Le’Wayne Anthony Wright’s complaint is overruled as
to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.
 
Defendant William
Wirshing, M.D. (“Wirshing”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiffs Glenn Wright’s
(“Glen”), Nina Woolfolk’s (“Nina”), and all successors-in-interest to Le’Wayne
Anthony Wright (“Le’Wayne Successors”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) complaint
(“Complaint”).  (Notice of Demurrer Wirshing,
pg. 2.)  Wirshing also moves to strike
portions of the Complaint.  (Notice of
MTS Wirshing, pg. 2.)
Defendants Exodus
Recovery, Inc. (“Exodus Inc.”), Exodus Foundation dba Exodus Foundation for
Recovery (“Exodus Foundation”), and Luana Murphy (“Murphy”) (collectively “Exodus
Defendants”) demur to Plaintiffs’ Complaint.  (Notice of Demurrer Exodus, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§430.10(e).)  Exodus Defendants also move
to strike portions of the Complaint. 
(Notice of MTS Exodus, pg. 2.)
Defendants
Pathways Medical Association (“Pathways”) and Todd Nathan, N.P. (“Nathan”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) demur to Plaintiffs’ Complaint on the grounds that
the 1st and 2nd causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Pathways and Nathan. 
(Notice of Demurrer Pathways, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
          Requests for Judicial Notice
          Wirshing’s 5/5/23 request for judicial
notice of the following documents on file in Wright, et al. v. Exodus
Recovery, Inc., et al., C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:22-CV-01693: (1) Plaintiffs’
Complaint, filed March 14, 2022, (W-RJN, Exh. 1); (2) Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint, filed June 6, 2022, (W-RJN, Exh. 2); (3) Order Granting Defendants’
Motion to Dismiss, filed December 21, 2022, (W-RJN, Exh. 3); (4) Plaintiffs’
federal Second Amended Complaint, filed January 11, 2023 (W-RJN, Exh. 4); (5) Plaintiffs’
Motion to Decline to Exercise Supplemental
Jurisdiction Over
Plaintiffs’ State Law Claims, filed January 17, 2023, (W-RJN, Exh. 5); (6) Defendants’
Opposition to Motion asking District Court to Decline to Exercise Supplemental
Jurisdiction Over Plaintiff’s State Law Claims, filed February 1, 2023 (W-RJN,
Exh. 6); (7) Plaintiffs’ Reply to Defendants’ Opposition to Motion to Decline
to Exercise Supplemental Jurisdiction Over Plaintiff’s State Law Claims, filed
February 8, 2023 (W-RJN, Exh. 7); (8) Order to Re-file State Law Causes of
Action in State Court, filed February 17, 2023 (W-RJN, Exh. 8); and (7)
Stipulation Regarding Scheduling Motions to Dismiss re First Amended Complaint
(W-RJN, Exh. 14) is granted.
Wirshing’s 5/5/23
request for judicial notice of the Complaint in the instant action is denied,
as the Court does not need to take judicial notice of filings on the docket in
the instant case.
Wirshing’s 5/5/23
request for judicial notice of meet and confer letters and emails is
denied.  (W-RJN, Exhs. 10-13.)
Exodus Inc.’s,
Exodus Foundation’s, and Murphy’s 5/5/23 and 8/18/23 request for judicial
notice of (1) Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint filed on June 6, 2022, in the
C.D. Cal., Case No. 2:22-cv-01693-SPG-SK (E-RJN, Exh. A); and (2) Order
Granting Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss as to the First Amended Complaint, C.D.
Cal. Case No. 2:22-cv-01693-SPG-SK, entered December 21, 2022 (E-RJN, Exh. B),
is granted. 
 
Background
Plaintiffs filed their
operative Complaint on March 15, 2023, against Exodus Inc., Exodus Foundation,
Pathways, Wirshing, Nathan, and Murphy (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging four
causes of action against Defendants: (1) Unruh Civil Rights Act (Civ. Code
§§51, et seq.) [against Exodus Inc., Exodus Foundation, and Pathways];
(2) violation of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf.
& Inst. Code §§15610.05, 15610.07, 15610.57) [against all Defendants]; (3) professional
negligence (medical malpractice) [against all Defendants]; and (4) wrongful
death [against all Defendants], arising from the death of Le’Wayne Anthony
Wright (“Decedent”).
Plaintiffs
allege Decedent was unmarried at the time of his death and died intestate.
Decedent was twenty-six (26) years old at the time of his death.  (Complaint ¶7.)  Plaintiffs allege Glenn is Decedent’s father
and successor-in-interest.  (Complaint
¶8.)  Plaintiffs allege Nina is
Decedent’s mother and successor-in-interest. 
(Complaint ¶9.)  
Plaintiffs
allege Decedent was born on April 11, 1994, and had a history of bipolar
disorder, depression, and ideation for suicide throughout his life.  (Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent was severely
hearing impaired and required the assistance of a hearing aid.  (Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege at the time of the
incident, Decedent’s hearing impairment had been deteriorating and was expected
to eventually result in total hearing loss. 
(Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs
allege at the time of the incident, even with the use of a hearing aid Decedent
was not able to hear high frequency sounds and had particular difficulty
hearing women’s voices.  (Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent was not generally
able to read the lips of strangers unless he simultaneously used a hearing aid.  (Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege without the use of a
hearing aid, Decedent was substantially deaf.   (Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege because Decedent was
severely hearing impaired, upon information and belief means reasonably
calculated to communicate complex information to a deaf individual and/or use
of a hearing aid were necessary to afford Decedent effective communication in a
medical setting, particularly for interactive communications such as the
discussion of symptoms, presentation of diagnosis and treatment options, and
discharge planning.  (Complaint
¶48.)  
Plaintiffs
allege without the aforementioned services in medical settings, Decedent was
not afforded effective communication and was at high risk of miscommunication
and further depression that could lead to misdiagnosis, improper or delayed
medical treatment, and/or Decedent’s inability to fully participate in his
mental health evaluation and treatment. 
(Complaint ¶49.) Plaintiffs allege before Decedent’s death he had
attempted suicide once before and had been declared a 5150 risk at least twice
prior.  (Complaint ¶50.)  
Plaintiffs
allege on November 23, 2020, Decedent was admitted to Exodus Inc. Urgent Care
Center located in East Los Angeles. 
(Complaint ¶51.)  Plaintiffs
allege Decedent was transported to Exodus Inc. after he was determined to be
undergoing a mental health crisis and had expressed a plan to immediately throw
himself to his death from the window of his fourth-floor apartment.  (Complaint ¶51.)  Plaintiffs allege although Exodus Inc.
admitted Decedent with knowledge of his suicidal ideation and plan, recent
suicide attempt, symptoms of ongoing mental instability, severe hearing impairment,
and inability to attend to the basic activities of daily living without
assistance, facility staff, including Nurse Nathan and Psychiatrist Wirshing,
determined almost immediately to put Decedent out of the facility the following
morning.  (Complaint ¶51.)
Plaintiffs
allege Decedent had no other viable option for immediate interventional
treatment of his mental health crisis other than Exodus Inc., and during his
stay Decedent depended on Defendants for several of his activities of daily
living (“ADLs”) and basic needs, including but not limited to medication
assistance and self-preservation.  (Complaint
¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege nevertheless,
Defendants failed to provide even the minimum necessary services, evaluation,
and treatment to Decedent.  (Complaint
¶52.)
Plaintiffs
allege the following morning, on November 24, 2020, Defendants ejected and/or
discharged Decedent from the Exodus Urgent Care Center, knowing that Decedent
had not been stabilized and remained a danger to himself.  (Complaint ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege thereafter, Decedent
immediately travelled to his apartment and jumped from his fourth-floor
apartment window approximately 20-40 feet to the ground below.  (Complaint ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege emergency services
responded to the scene and transported Decedent to LAC+USC Medical Center
where, on November 24, 2020, at 7:05 p.m., Decedent was pronounced dead.  (Complaint ¶53.)
On May 5, 2023, Wirshing
filed his demurrer.  On July 27, 2023,
Wirshing filed his motion to strike. On September 8, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
oppositions to Wirshing’s demurrer and motion to strike.  On September 14, 2023, Wirshing filed his
replies in support of his demurrer and motion to strike.  Plaintiffs object to Wirshing’s motion to
strike as untimely filed.  (Opposition
MTS Wirshing, pg. 3.)  While Wirshing’s
motion to strike was untimely filed, the Court in its discretion will consider
the motion.
On May 5, 2023,
Exodus Inc., Exodus Foundation, and Murphy filed their demurrer and motion to
strike.  On September 8, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their oppositions to Exodus Inc.’s, Exodus Foundation’s, and Murphy’s
demurrer and motion to strike.  On
September 14, 2023, Exodus Inc., Exodus Foundation, and Murphy filed their
replies in support of their demurrer and motion to strike.
On May 10, 2023,
Pathways and Nathan filed their demurrer. 
On September 8, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their oppositions to Pathways’
and Nathan’s demurrer.  On September 14,
2023, Pathways and Nathan filed their reply in support of their demurrer.
 
A.  
Wirshing’s Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Wirshing demurs
on the basis that Plaintiffs’ 2nd causes of action for Violation of Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action against him, and that while Plaintiffs Glenn and Nina
are the parents of Decedent, and sue for him as successors to his interests,
the only theory of liability they could assert on their own behalf is the cause
of action for wrongful death.  (Demurrer Wirshing,
pg. 7; C.C.P. §§430.10 (b), (e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State
a Claim
Violation of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code §§15610.05, 15610.07, 15610.57) (2nd
COA)
“Abuse
of an elder or a dependent adult” means “[p]hysical abuse, neglect,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering” or “[t]he deprivation by a care custodian of
goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental
suffering.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code
§15610.07(a).)  In order to state a cause
of action for neglect under the Elder Abuse Act, Plaintiffs must allege: (1)
Decedent was an elder or dependent adult; (2) defendant had responsibility for
meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition,
hydration, hygiene or medical care; (3) defendant knew of conditions that made
the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs;
(4) defendant denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder
or dependent adult’s basic needs, (a) either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff
alleges oppression, fraud or malice); or (b) with conscious disregard of the
high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness); and
(5) the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm,
pain or mental suffering.  (Carter v.
Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407.)  
Neglect
has two definitions under the Welfare and Institutions Code: “(1) The negligent
failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent
adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like
position would exercise [or] (2) The negligent failure of an elder or dependent
adult to exercise that degree of self-care that a reasonable person in a like
position would exercise.”  (Welf. &
Inst. Code §§15610.57(a)(1)-(2).)  Neglect
further includes but is not limited to: “(2) Failure to provide medical care
for physical and mental health needs. . .. (3) Failure to protect from health
and safety hazards.”  (Welf. & Inst.
Code §§15610.57(b)(2)-(3).)
Plaintiffs
allege Wirshing is and was licensed physician in the State of California
(California License No. G50986) with his principal place of practice located
at: 9808 Venice Blvd., Suite 700, Culver City, California 90232, as well as
registered mailing address at: 6433 Topanga Canyon Blvd., #429, Woodland Hills,
California 91303.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiffs allege Exodus Inc. is a business
establishment.  (Complaint ¶61.)  
Plaintiffs
allege at the time Decedent was admitted to Exodus Inc.’s facility in November
2020, Decedent was functionally deaf and unable to hear or read lips without
the insertion of his hearing aids, which he did not have with him during his
admission to Exodus Inc.’s facility. 
(Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiffs
allege as detailed in ¶¶108-109(i), Defendants, and each of them would have
known at every attempted assessment and interview of Decedent that he was
severely hearing impaired and/or deaf and that additional measures would need
to be taken to ensure that Decedent understood the questions being posed to him
about his history and current symptoms. 
(Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiffs
allege Decedent’s patient records are devoid of any indication that any such
measures were taken with the possible exception of nurse Abongwa’s purported
use of pantomime at the time of admission.  (Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent’s patient records indicate
that Exodus Inc.’s employees, Nathan and Wirshing, made notations indicating
knowledge that Decedent’s was hearing impaired. 
(Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiffs
allege due to Defendants’ failure to ensure that they could communicate
accurately with Decedent, they failed to accurately assess and evaluate his mental
state and could not have reasonably determined that Decedent’s mental condition
had sufficiently stabilized such that it was safe to discharge him only
24-hours after his admission.  (Complaint
¶65.)
Plaintiffs
allege at the time Decedent was admitted to Exodus Inc.’s facility in November
2020, Decedent was suffering from severe mental disability.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege as detailed in ¶¶108-109(i),
Defendants and each of them were aware that Decedent posed a danger to his own
life at the time of admission because he was experiencing suicidal ideation and
had a specific, and realistic plan by which he would kill himself, which was to
throw himself from the window of his fourth-floor apartment, and that he had
attempted approximately six or seven months prior.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants and each of them
observed that Decedent began to exhibit psychotic behavior after the time of
his admission.   (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants and each of them
also were aware that Decedent was not able to conduct his ADLs, such as
dressing, getting in and out of bed or a chair, walking, using the toilet, and
eating by himself.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege this knowledge was
sufficient to have authorized Defendants to institute a 72-hour involuntary
hold.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege however, Defendants failed to
do so.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege instead, very soon
following Decedent’s admission, Defendants determined to discharge Decedent the
following morning.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants maintained that
determination throughout Decedent’s admission, regardless of indications that
further assessment and treatment was necessary, and they in fact did discharge Decedent
almost exactly twenty-four hours after his admission.  (Complaint ¶66.)  
Plaintiffs
allege the standard for imposing an involuntary 72-hour hold upon an individual
pursuant to the Lanterman Petris Short (“LPS”) Act for the purpose of
assessment and crisis intervention is “probable cause” that “a person, as a
result of a mental health disorder, is a danger to others, or to themselves, or
gravely disabled….”  (Wel. & Inst.
Code, § 5150.)  The term “gravely disabled”
under the LPS Act includes “[a] condition in which a person, as a result of a
mental health disorder, is unable to provide for his or her basic personal
needs for food, clothing, or shelter.”  (Complaint ¶66.)  
Plaintiffs
allege Exodus Inc.’s promulgated policy “Involuntary Detention 72 Hour” in
effect at the time of Decedent’s admission required the institution of such a
hold where “[a]s a result of a mental health disorder, an individual is a
danger to his/herself, a danger to others, or gravely disabled.”  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants Nathan and Wirshing
had agreed to comply with Exodus Inc.’s abovementioned policy by virtue of
Pathways’ Professional services Agreement Sub-Contract with Exodus Inc.  (Complaint ¶66.)  
Plaintiffs
allege as a direct result of Defendants’ wrongful acts and omissions, described
herein, Decedent suffered physical pain, emotional suffering, distress, and anguish,
and was compelled to commit suicide. 
(Complaint ¶70.)  Plaintiffs
allege Defendants’ wrongful acts and omissions were a substantial factor in
causing Decedent’s injuries, which would have been prevented had Defendants
acted reasonably and in accordance with their duties owed to the Decedent.  (Complaint ¶70.)
Plaintiffs
allege at the time of his admission to Exodus Inc.’s urgent care facility,
Decedent was enrolled in a Medi-care/Medi-Cal plan offered to residents of the
County of Los Angeles called L.A. Care Health Plan.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege by enrolling in said plan,
Decedent was compelled to accept the urgent/crisis intervention psychiatric
services offered only by facility approved by L.A. Care Health Plan.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant Exodus Inc., and
through its Defendants Pathways, Wirshing, and Nathan stood in a unique
position and relationship as the only provider of urgent/crisis intervention
psychiatric services in contract with the County of Los Angeles, approved by
L.A. Care Health Plan, and certified to provide services under the LPS
Act.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants knew of their
responsibility to act as a gatekeeper to Medi-Cal patients, such as Decedent,
and to ensure that Decedent received all of the care he reasonably needed on an
ongoing basis for as long Decedent remained enrolled in his HMO.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent gave up the right
to seek urgent/crisis intervention psychiatric services care from any provider
except, including physician specialists, as Defendants might elect to refer
him.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege as an enrollee, Decedent
gave up the right to withdraw from L.A. Care Health Plan and its delegated
health care providers except during December.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege therefore, Decedent and
Defendants Exodus Inc., Pathways, Wirshing, Nathan, and Murphy were in a
substantial ongoing caretaking relationship, and Decedent and Defendants were
committed to each other.  (Complaint
¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent was
entirely dependent on Defendants Exodus Inc., Pathways, Wirshing, Nathan, and
Murphy for access to all needed health care, including, the imposition of a
72-hour hold for assessment, treatment, and stabilization, and/or admitting
Decedent to an inpatient hospital setting, and for their determination of what
health care the Decedent would need, would be provided, and would be denied.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege regardless of their
decision and of what information was shared by Defendants with Decedent,
Decedent was unable to seek healthcare elsewhere.  (Complaint ¶76.)
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants and each of them were made aware by information received from
the Los Angeles County Fire Department at the time of Decedent’s admission that
he posed a danger to his own life at the time of admission because he was
experiencing suicidal ideation and had a specific, and realistic plan by which
he would kill himself, which was to throw himself from the window of his
fourth-floor apartment, and that he had attempted approximately six or seven
months prior.  (Complaint ¶77.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants and each of them
observed that Decedent began to exhibit psychotic behavior after the time of
his admission.  (Complaint ¶77.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants and each of them
also were aware that Decedent was not able to conduct his ADLs such as
dressing, getting in and out of bed or a chair, walking, using the toilet, and
eating by himself.  (Complaint ¶77.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants, and each of them,
undertook to conduct face-to-face checks with Decedent every 10 minutes
following his admission for the purpose of preventing him from harming himself
due to his suicidal ideation.  (Complaint
¶77.)
Plaintiffs
allege among an individual’s basic daily needs—in addition to being able to
provide for one’s own clothing, shelter, and food—is being able, at every
moment, to avoid clear and obvious dangers that threaten immediate serious
bodily injury or death.  (Complaint
¶78.)  Plaintiffs allege in the case of
one laboring under the compulsion to kill oneself and who is experiencing suicidal
ideation, that need must be supplied by someone else because the subject him or
herself constitutes the danger that threatens their own serious bodily injury
and/or death.  (Complaint ¶78.)  Plaintiffs allege this was the mental state
experienced by Decedent when he was admitted by Defendants on November 23,
2020.  (Complaint ¶78.)  
Plaintiffs
allege Decedent was admitted to Exodus Urgent Care Center on November 23,
2020.  (Complaint ¶79.)  Plaintiffs allege during his admission to
Exodus Urgent Care Center, Defendants knew that Decedent had expressed the
intention to commit suicide to several persons by a particular and achievable
method and was depressed; that this suicidal ideation and depression had
persisted after the point of admission; that Decedent was bipolar and had been
prescribed antipsychotic and antidepressant medication but was not current with
that; that Decedent had undergone a psychotic episode during admission wherein
he experienced audible hallucinations telling him “murder, murder” and
delusions; and that Decedent was a danger to himself; and that Decedent was
thus extremely weak and vulnerable and dependent on Exodus Urgent Care Center’s
care staff for his activities of daily living including the provisions of food,
personal hygiene, transferring, medication management and treatment, personal
physical safety and self-preservation. 
(Complaint ¶79.)  
Plaintiffs
allege at all times mentioned, Defendants Exodus, Pathways, Wirshing, Nathan,
and Murphy accepted the responsibility to provide such caretaking and custodial
services and by virtue of the nature, substance, and totality of their
gatekeeping relationship with Decedent had custody of Decedent and controlled
his access to necessary and lifesaving urgent/crisis intervention psychiatric
services, as mentioned further above, and including by undertaking to institute
face-to-face welfare checks upon the Decedent every 10 minutes for the purpose
of ensuring his safety, that is, to prevent him from immediately ending his
life.  (Complaint ¶79.)
Plaintiffs
allege on information and belief, at all pertinent times Defendants were the
recipients of grant money awarded by the California Mental Health Services
Oversight and Accountability Commission (“MHSOAC”) under SB-82 and received
significant government economic resources ostensibly to development Crisis Transition
Teams (“CTT”) for the purpose of augmenting mental health services provided at
Exodus UCC facilities.  (Complaint
¶80.)  Plaintiffs allege at all pertinent
times, Exodus Inc. represented to the public that CTT services included the
assignment of a transition case manager to each departing patient to ensure the
provision of additional mental health and social services and support for up to
60 days to “ensure stabilization, linkage to on-going services/supports and
triage services within the consumers’ local communities.” (See
www.exodusrecovery.com.)  (Complaint
¶80.)  Plaintiffs allege nevertheless,
upon ejecting, excluding, and/or discharging Decedent from the Exodus UCC
facility at issue here, Defendants did not connect Decedent with CTT services or
take any steps to ensure stabilization. 
(Complaint ¶80.)  
Plaintiffs
allege at all times relevant herein, Decedent, by virtue of his admission at
Exodus Urgent Care Center, was a “dependent adult” pursuant to Welfare &
Institutions Code section 15610.23(b). 
(Complaint ¶81.)  Plaintiffs
allege Decedent, at all relevant times herein, had physical and/or mental
limitations restricting his ability to carry out normal activities to protect
him as defined in Welfare & Institutions Code §15610.23(a.)  (Complaint ¶81.)  Plaintiffs allege those limitations included,
but were not limited to, the following: hearing impairment; bipolar disorder;
persistent suicidal ideation; and symptoms of psychosis rendering Decedent
unable to distinguish between reality and fantasy.  (Complaint ¶81.) 
Plaintiffs
allege dependent abuse includes acts amounting to “abandonment” and
“neglect.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code
§§15610.05, 15610.07, 15610.57). 
“‘Abandonment’ means the desertion or willful forsaking of an elder or a
dependent adult by anyone having care or custody of that person under
circumstances in which a reasonable person would continue to provide care and
custody.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code
§15610.05.) “‘Neglect’ means . . . [t]he negligent failure of any person having
the care or custody of . . . a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care
that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.57(a)(1).)  (Complaint ¶84.)
Plaintiffs
allege at all times mentioned during the periods of Defendants’ care of the
Decedent, Decedent was wholly dependent upon Defendants for medical,
psychiatric, and psychological care, and as such lacked any decision-making
authority.  (Complaint ¶84.)  Plaintiffs allege at all times mentioned
during the periods of their care of the Decedent, Defendants accepted the
responsibility to provide such caretaking and custodial services and had
custody of Decedent.  (Complaint
¶85.)  
Plaintiffs
allege at all times mentioned during the periods of their care of the Decedent,
Defendants advertised their services, and represented their qualifications to
Plaintiffs.  (Complaint ¶86.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants represented
among other things that they would provide trained and qualified personnel for
the care, custody, and control of Decedent. 
(Complaint ¶86.)  
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants were under a duty to provide the required care, custody, and
control in a reasonable and customary manner. 
(Complaint ¶87.)  Plaintiffs
allege Defendants also had a duty to provide sufficient personnel in order to
properly communicate with, evaluate, supervise, and protect Decedent while he
remained in Defendants’ care, custody, and control so as to prevent him from
coming to serious harm.  (Complaint ¶88.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants also had a duty
to identify and evaluate Decedent risk factors given his suicidal thoughts, as
it was the exact reason for which Decedent was admitted to Exodus Urgent Care
Center.  (Complaint ¶89.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants further had a
duty to monitor a Decedent with multiple risk factors, including Decedent’s
mental state and interest in committing suicide.  (Complaint ¶90.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants had a duty to
transfer Decedent to a higher level of care when warranted, without regard to
financial considerations.  (Complaint
¶91.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants had a
duty to provide proper and comprehensive discharge planning.  (Complaint ¶92.)  Plaintiffs allege Despite their having
knowledge of Defendants’ weak, vulnerable, and dependent condition, and his
reliance on Defendants for the basic activities of everyday life, Defendants
nonetheless failed to provide Decedent the minimum standard of care in his
initial and subsequent evaluations, provision of psychiatric and medical care,
and discharge assessment and planning as described herein above, thus amounting
to neglect.  (Complaint ¶93.)
Wirshing’s
first argument that Glenn and Nina cannot sue him on their own behalf as
individuals and can only sue as Decedent’s successors to his interests is
unavailing.  (C.C.P. §377.30.)  A demurrer may only be brought as to an
entire cause of action, not simply as to a portion of a cause of action, and a
dismissal in the manner sought by Defendant would equate to a finding that
Plaintiffs cannot bring this action as Decedent’s successors-in-interest.  (See Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119 [“A demurrer must dispose of
an entire cause of action to be sustained”], citing PH II, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.) 
Accordingly, Wirshing’s demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is overruled
on this basis.
Welfare
and Institutions Code §15610.17 defines a “care custodian” as “an administrator
or an employee of any of the following public or private facilities or
agencies, or persons providing care or services for elders or dependent adults,
including members of the support staff and maintenance staff: [including] (a)
Twenty-four-hour health facilities, . . .”  (Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.17(a).)  Plaintiffs allege that Exodus Urgent Care
Center was a twenty-four-hour health facility.  (See Complaint ¶¶1-2.)  Plaintiffs allege that Wirshing was a staff
member of this facility and assumed control and care for Decedent’s ADLs upon
his voluntary admission.  (Complaint ¶¶2,
76-78.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs
sufficiently plead that Wirshing meets the definition of a care custodian under
Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.17.
Regardless
of a plaintiff meeting the statutory definition of a “dependent adult” and a defendant
meeting the definition of a “care custodian” under Welfare and Institutions
Code §15610.17, “[i]t must be determined, on a case-by-case basis, whether the
specific responsibilities assumed by a defendant were sufficient to give rise
to a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship.”  (Kruthanooch v. Glendale Adventist Medical
Center (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1131, quoting Oroville Hospital v.
Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 382, 405.)
The
Act provides the following provision regarding negligence of health care
providers: “Notwithstanding this article, any cause of action for injury or damage
against a health care provider, as defined in Section 340.5 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, based on the health care provider’s alleged professional
negligence, shall be governed by those laws which specifically apply to those
professional negligence causes of action.” 
(Welf. & Inst. Code §15657.2.) 
The California Supreme Court in Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.
regarded the inclusion of §15657.2 in the Act’s statutory scheme as demonstrating,
“beyond doubt . . . that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing
between—and decidedly not lumping together—claims of professional negligence
and [claims for] neglect” under the Act. 
(Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 159,
citing Welf. & Inst. Code §15657.2.) 

The
Winn Court also cited to Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court,
in which the California Supreme Court determined that the Legislature intended
the Act to sanction only egregious acts of misconduct distinct from
professional negligence.  (Id.,
citing Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 785.)
 The Covenant Care, Inc. Court stated
that “[a]s used in the Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance
of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of those responsible for
attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults,
regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial
obligations.’ ([Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 34].)  Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’
speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to
provide medical care. (Id.) Notably, the other forms of abuse, as
defined in the Act—physical abuse and fiduciary abuse (Welf. & Inst. Code
§15657)—are forms of intentional wrongdoing also distinct from ‘professional
negligence.’ (Delaney, supra, at p. 34.)”  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)
In
Delaney v. Baker, the California Supreme Court distinguished the type of
neglect actionable under the Act compared to mere professional negligence: “[i]n
order to obtain the remedies available in section 15657, a plaintiff must
demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something
more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious conduct. The latter three categories involve ‘intentional,’ ‘willful,’
or ‘conscious’ wrongdoing of a ‘despicable’ or ‘injurious’ nature. (Civ. Code §3294(c);
see also College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 721.) ‘Recklessness’ refers to a subjective state of culpability
greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a ‘deliberate
disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that an injury will occur (BAJI
No. 12.77 [defining the ‘recklessness’ in the context of intentional infliction
of emotional distress action]); see also Rest.2d Torts §500.)
Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves more than ‘inadvertence, incompetence,
unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions’ but rather rises to the level
of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action . . . with knowledge of the
serious danger to others involved in it.’ (Rest.2d Torts, § 500, com. (g), p.
590.)”  (Delaney v. Baker (1999)
20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.)
Plaintiffs’
Complaint demonstrates Exodus undertook a substantial custodial relationship
with Decedent when he was transported to the facility for urgent medical care.  Plaintiffs allege Exodus Urgent Care admitted
Decedent in-patient to the facility, noted his physical and mental impairments,
and undertook to conduct face-to-face checks with him every 10 minutes,
providing encouragement as to completion of ADLs.  (Complaint ¶¶79, 108(d)(i)-(xviii).)  That Decedent lived on his own prior to his
admission to Exodus Urgent Care is immaterial.
Here,
Plaintiffs’ cause of action implicates Wirshing’s alleged reckless omission of
his duty as a physician to provide Decedent with a medical-psychiatric
assessment, treatment, and discharge plan when Exodus Urgent Care Center
undertook a substantial custodial relationship with Decedent.  Plaintiffs allege Decedent was transported by
the fire department to Exodus Urgent Care Center and admitted because he was a
danger to himself and unable to care for his basic needs, including dressing,
getting in and out of bed or a chair, walking, using the toilet, provision of
food, physical safety and self-preservation, and taking and managing medication
and treatment.  (Complaint ¶¶51, 66, 77,
78, 79, 108(d)(iii).)  Exodus Urgent Care
Center was aware that Decedent: (1) had voluntarily been admitted due to an
uncontrollable desire to end his life by throwing himself out of a fourth floor
window; (2) had a history of mental illness including bipolar disorder; (3) had
a recent prior suicide attempt; (4) had extreme hearing loss to the point of
deafness; (5) expressed psychotic behaviors and experienced audible
hallucinations saying “murder, murder” to him while at the facility; (6) was
unable to conduct his ADLs by himself; and (7) that he had a realistic and
specific plan for carrying out his suicidal ideation.  (Complaint ¶¶78, 79, 94, 98, 106.)  Plaintiffs allege Wirshing was aware of these facts
but determined that Decedent would be released the following morning, performed
a perfunctory psychological evaluation which did not assess Decedent’s suicidal
ideation or specific plan to commit suicide based on Decedent’s inability to
hear and communicate with his care providers, and discharged Decedent, despite
his voluntarily admission.  (Complaint ¶¶108(d)(xii)-(xvii).)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent was not stabilized
at the time of his discharge, that Wirshing did not ensure that Decedent could
understand their speech and questions given his deafness prior to discharging
him, and that Decedent had no other viable option for treatment based on his
medical plan. (Complaint ¶¶52-53, 108(d)(xvii).)  Plaintiffs further allege that Wirshing
undertook this course of action due to a lack of resources, inadequate
staffing, and considerations of cost.  (Complaint
¶2.)  As such, Plaintiffs sufficiently
allege Wirshing acted with a conscious and deliberate disregard to the high
probability Decedent would carry out his specific suicidal compulsion upon
discharge.
Accordingly,
Wirshing’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Wirshing’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is overruled as to the 2nd cause of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
B.   
Wirshing’s Motion to Strike
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §436
provides that the Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at
any time within its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.”  (C.C.P. §436(a).) 
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a
motion to strike, moving party’s counsel must meet and confer, in person or by
telephone, with counsel for the party who filed the pleading in an attempt to
reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and
obviate the need for filing a motion to strike.  (C.C.P. §435.5.)  A declaration must be filed with the motion
to strike regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §435.5(a)(3).)  Wirshing failed to submit a declaration
stating compliance with the motion to strike meet and confer requirement.  However, the failure to sufficiently meet and
confer is not a ground to grant or deny the motion to strike.  (C.C.P. §435.5(a)(4).)  Therefore, the Court will consider Wirshing’s
motion.
 
Summary of Motion

Wirshing move to
strike the following sections and prayers for relief from the Complaint on the
basis they are not permitted by law: (1) the 2nd cause of action for Violation
of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, in its entirety, as to
Wirshing, 18:16-27:9 (¶¶75-106), which includes claims for attorneys’ fees,
22:6, 26:22 (¶¶83, 104), and for punitive damages, 22:12, 26:28-27:9, (¶¶83,
106); (2) the assertion in Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action for Professional Negligence/Medical
Malpractice, that “Plaintiffs are entitled to recover from Defendants, and each
of them, punitive damages according to proof at trial pursuant to Civil Code
section 3294,” 37:7-8 (¶132); (3) the 4th Cause of Action, for Wrongful Death,
asserting, “Defendants committed the acts stated herein maliciously and
oppressively, with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiffs, thereby
entitling Plaintiffs to punitive damages,” 37:27-28 (¶137); (4) Plaintiffs’
prayer for relief, “For punitive damages according to proof,” 38:8, Prayer ¶iv;
and (5) Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief, for “attorneys’ fees,” 38:14, Prayer ¶ix.  (MTS, pg. 2.)
 
Standing
The Court is
aware, based on Wirshing’s demurrer, that Plaintiffs Glenn and Nina cannot
state claims for the 2nd and 3rd causes of action in their individual
capacities, and can only sue on Decedent’s behalf as his
successors-in-interest.  (C.C.P. §377.30.)  Plaintiffs must specify in each cause of
action whether it is brought by Plaintiffs in their individual capacities or in
their capacities as successors-in-interest.  Plaintiffs’ opposition to Wirshing’s demurrer
argue leave to amend should be freely granted and they may easily amend their
Complaint to include this information.  (Opposition Demurrer Wirshing, pg. 14; Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
Accordingly, the
Court strikes Plaintiffs’ Complaint the 2nd and 3rd causes of action brought by
Glenn and Nina in their individual capacities with 20 days leave to
amend the 2nd and 3rd causes of action to indicate the causes of action are
brought by Glenn and Nina as Decedent’s successors-in-interest.
 
Violation of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code §§15610.05, 15610.07, 15610.57) (2nd
COA)
Wirshing repeats
the argument presented in his demurrer that Plaintiffs fail to state a cause of
action against him in their 2nd cause of action for violation of the Elder
Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act and the cause of action should
therefore be stricken in its entirety. 
(MTS Wirshing, pg. 8.)  For the
same reasons the Court stated with regards to Wirshing’s demurrer, Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege the cause of action against him and are therefore entitled
to the claims for attorneys’ fees and punitive damages allowed by statute.
Accordingly,
Wirshing’s motion to strike the 2nd cause of action in its entirety is denied.
 
Punitive Damages
(3rd COA)
Code of Civil
Procedure §425.13(a) provides: “In any action for damages arising out of the
professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive
damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court
enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive
damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended pleading
claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading
and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented that the
plaintiffs have established that there is a substantial probability that the
plaintiffs will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil
Code.”
In this case,
plaintiffs’ Complaint identifies Defendants as a healthcare providers that provided
medical, mental-psychiatric, services to Decedent. (Complaint ¶¶11-13, 15,
16).)  Wirshing is described as a
“licensed physician in the State of California.”  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action is one for
medical malpractice and is therefore subject to C.C.P. §425.13.
Plaintiffs’
prayer for punitive damages in their 3rd cause of action for professional
negligence is in violation of C.C.P. §425.13(a) because they failed to file a
motion to ask for permission before asserting a claim for punitive damages for
the cause of action and failed to present such a motion with evidence to
demonstrate facts that would at least raise triable issues of fact on punitive
damages.
Wirshing’s motion
to strike the assertion in Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action for Professional Negligence/Medical
Malpractice, that “Plaintiffs are entitled to recover from Defendants, and each
of them, punitive damages according to proof at trial pursuant to Civil Code
section 3294,” 37:7-8 (¶132) is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Punitive Damages
(4th COA)
Punitive damages
are not available in a wrongful death action.  (Grimshaw v. Ford Motor Co. (1981) 119
Cal.App.3d 757, 832, 836, disapproved on other grounds by Kim v. Toyota
Motor Corp. (2018) 6 Cal.5th 21, 38.)
Plaintiffs’ 4th
cause of action for wrongful death asserts, “Defendants committed the acts
stated herein maliciously and oppressively, with the wrongful intention of injuring
Plaintiffs, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to punitive damages,” 37:27-28 (¶137).  Such relief is not available under this cause
of action.
Accordingly,
Wirshing’s motion to strike the assertion in Plaintiffs’ 4th cause of action
that “Defendants committed the acts stated herein maliciously and oppressively,
with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiffs, thereby entitling
Plaintiffs to punitive damages,” 37:27-28 (¶137), is granted with 20
days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Wirshing’s motion
to strike is denied as to the 2nd cause of action for Violation of Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, in its entirety, as to Wirshing,
18:16-27:9 (¶¶75-106), which includes claims for attorneys’ fees, 22:6, 26:22
(¶¶83, 104), and for punitive damages, 22:12, 26:28-27:9, (¶¶83, 106); Plaintiffs’
prayer for relief, “For punitive damages according to proof,” 38:8, Prayer ¶iv;
and Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief, for “attorneys’ fees,” 38:14, Prayer ¶ix.
Wirshing’s motion
to strike is granted with 20 days leave to amend as to the assertion in Plaintiffs’
3rd cause of action for Professional Negligence/Medical Malpractice, that
“Plaintiffs are entitled to recover from Defendants, and each of them, punitive
damages according to proof at trial pursuant to Civil Code section 3294,”
37:7-8 (¶132); and the 4th Cause of Action, for Wrongful Death, asserting,
“Defendants committed the acts stated herein maliciously and oppressively, with
the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiffs, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to
punitive damages,” 37:27-28 (¶137).
The Court, sua
sponte, strikes the 2nd and 3rd causes of action brought by Glenn and Nina
in their individual capacities with 20 days leave to amend the 2nd and
3rd causes of action to indicate the causes of action are brought by Glenn and
Nina as Decedent’s successors-in-interest.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
C.    Exodus Defendants’
Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Exodus Defendants
demur on the basis that Plaintiffs’ 1st and 2nd causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Exodus Defendants.  (Demurrer Exodus, pg. 3; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Unruh Civil
Rights Act (Civ. Code §§51 et seq.) (1st COA)
A cause of action
under the Unruh Civil Rights Act must allege the following elements: (1) that
defendant denied/aided or incited a denial of or discriminated or made a
distinction that denied full and equal accommodations/ advantages/
facilities/ privileges/ services to plaintiff; (2) that a substantial motivating reason
for defendant’s conduct was its perception of plaintiff’s sex/ race/ color/ religion/
ancestry/ national origin/ medical condition/ genetic information/ marital
status/ sexual orientation/ citizenship/ primary language/ immigration status/
other actionable characteristic; (3) that plaintiff was harmed; and (4) that
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 3060.)
Plaintiffs who
claim violations of the ADA are not required to prove intentional
discrimination to prove a claim for damages under the Unruh Act.  (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46
Cal. 4th 661, 664-665.)  However, if a
plaintiff has not identified a violation of the ADA, he or she must establish
that the violation was intentional to prevail under the Unruh Act.  (Id. at pgs. 667-670; see CACI
3060.)
Plaintiffs allege
Exodus Urgent Care is a business establishment. 
(Complaint ¶61.)  Plaintiffs
allege Exodus Inc., Exodus Foundation, and Pathways own and operate Exodus
Urgent Care Center.  (Complaint ¶61.)  
Plaintiffs allege
Exodus Inc., Exodus Foundation, and Pathways violated the Unruh Act by denying,
aiding, and/or inciting the denial of Decedent’s rights to full and equal use
of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services offered at
Exodus Urgent Care Center.  (Complaint
¶64.)  Plaintiffs then illustrate examples
of Exodus Inc.’s, Exodus Foundation’s, and Pathways’ denial of Decedent’s
rights, including Defendants’ failure to ensure that they could communicate
accurately with Decedent as a person with severe hearing impairment and/or
deafness, thereby failing to accurately assess and evaluate Decedent’s mental
state and could not have reasonably determined that Decedent’s mental condition
had sufficiently stabilized such that it was safe to discharge him only
24-hours after his admission.  (Complaint
¶65; see Complaint ¶¶66-74.)
Exodus Defendants
argue Plaintiffs have not pled a claim under the ADA, no ADA claims are
asserted in the instant Complaint, and in the absence of a claim under the ADA,
Plaintiffs must allege that Defendants engaged in intentional conduct against
the Decedent to assert a valid cause of action under the Unruh Act.  (Demurrer Exodus, pg. 12.)
Plaintiffs
concede in their opposition that they have no cause of action under the ADA by
not addressing Exodus Defendants’ argument on the issue.  However, Plaintiffs allege Decedent was virtually
deaf without his hearing aids, that he did not have his hearing aids upon
admission, and Defendant Nathan’s notes confirmed that Decedent had “difficulty
in communicating” due to his “not being able to hear well.”  (Complaint ¶¶95, 108(d)(xii), 109(e)(ii),
109(f).)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent
required additional measures to ensure that his mental state could be
accurately assessed and evaluated given these communications difficulties, but
the only indication that any such required measures were taken was the
purported use of pantomime by nurse Abongwa at the time of his admission,
constituting denial of Decedent’s rights to accommodations.  (Complaint ¶95.)  Further, Plaintiffs sufficiently allege
intentional conduct: (1) predetermining to discharge Decedent from the facility
without being able to communicate with him; (2) following through with
ejecting/discharging Decedent with knowledge that he had not been stabilized;
(3) failing to make efforts to ensure their communications were understood by Decedent;
(4) and engaging in this intentional course of conduct due to under-resourcing,
inadequate staffing, and considerations of cost.  (Complaint ¶¶2, 51, 53, 65.) 
But, Plaintiffs
fail to allege that a substantial motivating reason for Defendants’ conduct was
its perception of Decedent’s sex/ race/ color/ religion/ ancestry/ national
origin/ medical condition/ genetic information/ marital status/ sexual
orientation/ citizenship/ primary language/ immigration status/ other
actionable characteristic.  (CACI 3060.)
Accordingly,
Exodus Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code §§15610.05, 15610.07, 15610.57) (2nd
COA)
To state an claim
for violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, a
plaintiff must allege facts showing that an officer, director, or managing
agent of defendant was involved in the abuse, authorized the abuse, ratified
the abuse, or hired the person who did the abuse with advance knowledge of the
persons unfitness and hired him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
and safety of others. Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657(c) provides:
“The standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code
regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts
of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney’s fees
permitted under this section may be imposed against an employer.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code §15657(c).)
Civil Code §3294(b)
provides:
An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless
the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.
 
(Civ. Code §3294(b),
emphasis added.)
In Romo v.
Ford Motor Company (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1115, the court held that in order
to prove that a corporation acted with malice, a plaintiff must provide enough
evidence to permit a “clear and convincing inference that within the
corporate hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.’”  (Romo v. Ford Motor Company (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 1115, 1141.)  In order to
satisfy the “managing agent requirement,” a plaintiff may provide “evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of the management decision making [sic] that permits an inference that the
information in fact moved upward to a point where corporation policy was
formulated.”  (Id.)  The Romo Court held that “inferences
cannot be based on mere speculation.”  (Id.)
Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege Murphy is an officer, director, or managing agent of Exodus
Inc. and Exodus Foundation and uses the businesses as her alter ego and
operates the businesses in a manner which does not comply with the law, and
which is calculated to increase her profit margins.  (Complaint ¶¶2, 20-44.) Plaintiffs allege
Murphy uses Wirshing as a straw man to avoid compliance with legal requirements
and further reducing costs and is charged with the exclusive decisions to
control the medical practice and hiring/firing decisions.  (Complaint ¶¶21-23.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants ratified,
authorized, and approved of the acts specified in the Complaint by engaged in
after-the-fact efforts to conceal their wrongdoing by creating self-serving
“late entry” notes and withholding Decedent’s medical records, which is
specifically calculated to avoid liability for their actions. (Complaint
¶¶54-57.)
Accordingly,
Exodus Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Exodus Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is overruled as to the 2nd cause of action
and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st cause of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
D.   Exodus Defendants’
Motion to Strike
In light of the
Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Exodus Defendants’ motion to strike is denied
as moot.
 
E.    Pathways’ and
Nathan’s Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Pathways and
Nathan demur on the basis that Plaintiffs’ 1st and 2nd causes of action fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against them.  (Demurrer Pathways, pg. 3; C.C.P.
§430.10(e).)
 
Unruh Civil
Rights Act (Civ. Code §§51 et seq.) (1st COA)
Pathways and
Nathan demur to Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action on the basis Plaintiffs fail to
allege a request for an accommodation was made or denied.  (Demurrer Pathways, pg. 4.)  Such an argument is unavailing because “[i]t
is axiomatic that an ‘entity’s duty to look into and provide a reasonable accommodation
may be triggered when the need for accommodation is obvious,’ even if no
request has been made.”  (Bax v.
Doctors Medical Center of Modesto, Inc. (9th Cir. 2022) 52 F.4th 858, 869,
quoting Updike v. Multnomah County (9th Cir. 2017) 870 F.3d 939, 951,
954 n.6).  “A contrary rule—i.e., one
that would permit facilities to fail to provide accommodations to a person with
a disability unless [he] specifically requests such aid, would be untenable and
cannot be countenanced.”  (Bax, 52
F.4th at pg. 869, citation omitted.)  Here,
Plaintiffs’ Complaint contains numerous allegations that Decedent was virtually
deaf without his hearing aids, that he did not have his hearing aids upon
admission, and Nathan’s notes confirmed that Decedent had “difficulty in
communicating” due to his “not being able to hear well.”  (Complaint ¶¶95, 108(d)(xii), 109(e)(ii),
109(f).) Plaintiffs allege Decedent required additional measures to ensure that
his mental state could be accurately assessed and evaluated given these
communications difficulties, but the only indication that any such required
measures were taken was the purported use of pantomime by nurse Abongwa at the
time of his admission. (Complaint ¶95.)
Accordingly,
Pathways’ and Nathan’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action is
overruled.
 
Violation of Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code §§15610.05, 15610.07, 15610.57) (2nd
COA)
          Pathways and Nathan’s demurrer to the
2nd cause of action is substantially similar to Wirshing’s demurrer that argues
Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts that Todd Nathan and Pathways were
custodial caretakers, and the alleged suicide was caused by a lack of custodial
care.  Therefore, Pathways and Nathan’s
demurrer overruled on the same basis.
Accordingly,
Pathways’ and Nathan’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is
overruled.
 
Conclusion
Pathways’ and
Nathan’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is overruled as to the 1st and 2nd
causes of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  September _____, 2023
                                                                             





  