  Case Number:  23STCV03161    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MECHELLET ARMELIN-MARTIN
  and PERRY MARTIN JR.,  
  
         vs.
 
KASSY DIEUJUSTE, et al. 


 Case No.: 23STCV03161
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 21, 2023



 
Cross-Defendants
Mechellet Armelin-Martin’s and Perry Martin Jr.’s special motion to strike the cross-complaint
of Cross-Complainants Michael Lurence and LEI
Electrical Contractors is granted, except for Cross-Complainants’
allegations of Common Counts contained at ¶CC-1(b)(2), which survives this
motion.  Cross-Defendants may separately
move for an award of attorneys’ fees and costs. 

 
Cross-Defendants
Mechellet Armelin-Martin (“Armelin-Martin”) and Perry Martin Jr. (“Martin”) (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) move to strike the cross-complaint (“CC”) of Cross-Complainants
Michael Lurence (“Lurence”) and LEI Electrical Contractors (“LEI”) (collectively,
“Cross-Complainants”) on the grounds that: (1) Cross-Complainants’ CC is
comprised of causes of action against Cross-Defendants arising from acts
undertaken by Cross-Defendants in furtherance of their rights of petition under
the U.S. Constitution and the California Constitution; and (2)
Cross-Complainants cannot establish a probability that they will prevail on
their claims, because Cross-Defendants’ alleged conduct is protected by
California’s statutory litigation privilege (Civ. Code §47(b)) and because Cross-Complainants
are otherwise unable to properly plead or prove their claims.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §425.16.)  Cross-Defendants also seek an award of the
attorneys’ fees and costs that they have and will continue to incur in
connection with bringing this motion.  (Notice
of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §425.16(c)(1).) 

 
Background 
          Cross-Complainants allege they entered into an oral
agreement on or about 2022 to 2023 between them and Cross-Defendants.  (CC ¶BC-1.) 
Cross-Complainants allege on or about 2022 Cross-Defendants agreed to
take out all the necessary homeowner/builder permits, pull all the necessary
permits, and provide the electrical designs needed by the Building Department
to replace and upgrade an electrical panel box and electrical work at
Cross-Defendants’ property located at 5234 Onaknoll Avenue, View Park, CA 90043
(“Property”).  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege on information and
belief that Cross-Defendants hired a handyman to do electrical and construction
work removing beams, adding rooms, and various construction work.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege neither
Cross-Defendants nor the handyman secured any permits for the construction and
or electrical work.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach.
BC-1.)  
Cross-Complainants allege on
information and belief that Cross-Defendants’ handyman walked off the
construction project over disputes about being paid by Cross-Defendants for
work he completed.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach.
BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege
Cross-Defendants then sought out Cross-Complainants to complete and correct
only the electrical work performed by the handyman.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege Cross-Defendants
assured Cross-Complainants that they had secured the various permits required
by the City Building Department, including but not limited to, owner-builder
permits and electrical permits to replace the panel box and electrical work
that had been performed by the handyman as well as additional work.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege in exchange, Cross-Complainants
agreed to perform the necessary electrical work under Cross-Defendants’ building
permits for compensation.  (CC ¶BC-1,
Attach. BC-1.)
Cross-Complainants allege they
have completed all necessary electrical work agreed to be performed.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege Cross-Defendants
have never secured the necessary building and electrical permits as required,
nor has any inspection been performed by the Building Department to evaluate Cross-Complainants’
work.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  Cross-Complainants allege that instead,
Cross-Defendants wrongfully reported Cross-Complainants to the Contractors State
License Board (“CSLB”), harming Cross-Complainants financially.  (CC ¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)
Cross-Defendants/Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint (“Complaint”) on February 14, 2023, against Defendants
Kassy Dieujuste (“Dieujuste”), NALM LLC dba Kassy + Company [erroneously
sued as Kassy + Co] (“NALM”), Omar Marquez (“Marquez”), Marquez Home
Services (“Home Services”), Lurence, and LEI, (collectively, “Defendants”)
alleging five causes of action: (1) violation of Civil Code §§7159 et seq. [against
Dieujuste, NALM, Marquez, and Home Services]; (2) violation of Business and
Professions Code §7031 [against Dieujuste, NALM, Marquez, and Home Services]; (3) negligence [against Defendants];
(4) fraud [against Dieujuste
and NALM]; and (5) alternatively, breach of contract [against Defendants].  
On June 21, 2023,
Cross-Complainants filed their operative CC against Cross-Defendants alleging three
causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) common count; (3) and fraud.[1]  (See CC.)  On August 25, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed the
instant motion.  On September 11, 2023,
Cross-Complainants filed an opposition.  On
September 14, 2023, Cross-Complainants filed their reply.
Cross-Defendants object to Cross-Complainants’
opposition as untimely, as their opposition was due on September 8, 2023. While
Cross-Complainants’ opposition is untimely, the Court, in its discretion, will
consider the opposition.
 
Special Motion to Strike
          “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step
process. First, ‘the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.’ [Citation.] Second, for each claim that does arise from
protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’ [Citation.]”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, citations omitted.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff
seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its
complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent
admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High School District v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940, citations omitted.)
A cross-complainant opposing
a special motion to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a
legally sufficient claim.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.)  “‘Put another way, the [cross-complainant] “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the [cross-complainant] is credited.”’ [Citations.]”  (Id. at pgs. 88-89.)  To that end, the cross-complainant must
present competent evidence, “that would be admissible at trial.”  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.)  “[D]eclarations
may not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [citation]” and documents
submitted without the proper foundation will not be considered.  (Id.) 
The cross-complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to carry the cross-complainant’s
shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los Angeles
County Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes v. Ares
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute evidence”]; see
also Burke, Anti-SLAPP Litigation (The Rutter Group, Civil Litigation
Series 2018 § 5:13) [“To satisfy prong two, the [cross-complainant] must submit
admissible evidence that if credited is sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment against the legal theories asserted by the [cross-defendant].”].)
 
Prong One: Arising from
Protected Activity
“A cause of action is subject
to a special motion to strike if the [cross-defendant] shows that the cause of
action arises from an act in furtherance of the [cross-defendants’]
constitutional right of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue and the [cross-complainant] fails to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing on the claim. [Citations.]”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money
Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 883.) 
“An ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by statute to
include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.’ 
[Citation.] If the [cross-defendant] shows that the cause of action
arises from a statement described in clause (1) or (2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.)
“A cause of action is one
‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) only if the [cross-defendants’] act on which the cause of
action is based was an act in furtherance of the [cross-defendants’]
constitutional right of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue. [Citation.] In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is
satisfied, ‘the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’
[(C.C.P. §425.16(b)(2).)] Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied
depends on the ‘gravamen or principal thrust’ of the claim. [Citations.] A
cause of action does not arise from protected activity for purposes of the
anti-SLAPP statute if the protected activity is merely incidental to the cause
of action. [Citations.]”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC, 194 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884, citations omitted.)  To show that a claim arises from protected
activity under section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1), it is not sufficient to show
that the claim “was filed after, or because of, protected activity, or when
protected activity merely provides evidentiary support or context for the
claim.” (Rand Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.)
 “Rather, the protected activity must
‘supply elements of the challenged claim.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., citations omitted.)
“At the first step, the
moving [cross-defendant] bears the burden of identifying all allegations of
protected activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is
sought based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.  If the court determines that relief is sought
based on allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the second
step is reached. There, the burden shifts to the [cross-complainant] to
demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally
sufficient and factually substantiated. The court, without resolving
evidentiary conflicts, must determine whether the [cross-complainant’s]
showing, if accepted by the trier of fact, would be sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment. If not, the claim is stricken. Allegations of protected
activity supporting the stricken claim are eliminated from the [cross-complaint],
unless they also support a distinct claim on which the [cross-complainant] has
shown a probability of prevailing.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
396, emphasis added.)
The burden is on the
cross-complainant to produce evidence that would be admissible at trial—i.e.,
to proffer a prima facie showing of facts supporting a judgment in cross-complainant’s
favor.  (Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087.)
Cross-Defendants argue each
cause of action in the CC is based on Cross-Defendants’ petitioning activity to
the CSLB, a governmental agency.  (Motion,
pgs. 13-17; C.C.P. §§425.16(e)(1), (2), (4).)
 
Statements Made Before Any Other Official
Proceeding Authorized by Law (C.C.P. §425.16(e)(1))
Cross-Defendants met their
burden to show the causes of action asserted in Cross-Complainants’ CC arise
from an “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue.”  (C.C.P. §§425.16(b), (e).)  Cross-Complainants’ CC is based on the
allegation that “Cross-Defendants wrongfully reported Cross-Complainant to the
Contractors Licensing Board harming Cross-Complainant financially to be
determined at the time of Trial.”  (CC
¶BC-1, Attach. BC-1.)  
“The constitutional right to
petition, as we have seen, includes the basic act of filing litigation or
otherwise seeking administrative action.”  (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 8, 19; see also California Motor Transportation Co. v.
Trucking Unlimited (1972) 404 U.S. 508, 510 [“The same philosophy governs
the approach of citizens or groups of them to administrative agencies (which
are both creatures of the legislature, and arms of the executive) and to
courts, the third branch of Government. Certainly the right to petition extends
to all departments of the Government. The right of access to the courts is
indeed but one aspect of the right of petition.”].)  Making a report or a complaint to a
governmental agency is quintessential petitioning activity.  (See Mann v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 90, 104 [“[T]he basis of these claims is … defendants’
reports to governmental agencies—petitioning activity protected under section
425.16, subdivision (e)(2).”], disapproved of on other grounds by Baral,
1 Cal. 5th 376.)
Here, the CSLB is located
within the Department of Consumer Affairs. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code §7000.5.)  The CSLB is part of the State’s Business,
Consumer Services and Housing Agency, an executive state agency.  Filing a complaint to the CSLB is protected
petitioning activity, and all three causes of action in the CC implicate
Cross-Defendants’ filing of a complaint to the CSLB; therefore, the gravamen of
the causes of action for breach of contract, common count; and fraud “arises
from an act in furtherance of the right of free speech or petition.”  (Tamkin v. CBS Broadcasting, Inc. (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 133, 142.)
Where an anti-SLAPP movant
asserts that the claims brought against her arise out of her protected
petitioning activity (rather than free speech), there is no requirement that
the petitioning activity must be related to a “public issue.”   (Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope &
Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1116.)
Cross-Defendants met their
burden of proving Cross-Complainants’ CC arises from protected activity, with
the exception of Cross-Complainants’ allegations of Common Counts contained at ¶CC-1(b)(2).  That allegation survives this motion.  
The burden shifts to Cross-Complainants
to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the 1st and 3rd causes of action
and the balance of the 2nd cause of action.  Cross-Complainants have not met their burden.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
A.   Breach of Contract (1st COA)
A claim for breach of
contract requires a cross-complainant to allege (1) the existence of contract;
(2) cross-complainant’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) cross-defendants’
breach (or anticipatory breach); and (4) resulting damage to cross-complainant.  (Reichert v. General Insurance Co.
(1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830; Hale v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1373, 1387.)
          Cross-Complainants failed to establish a probability of
prevailing on their claim for breach of contract by failing to submit
sufficient evidence to support a prima facie cause of action. 
Cross-Complainants submitted evidence in the form of Lurence’s
declaration; however, Lurence’s declaration does not include exhibits to
support his statements in opposition.  (See
Decl. of Lurence.)  Cross-Complainants’
opposition fails to recite the required elements of any cause of action pleaded
in the cross-complaint, fails to cite to Lurence’s declaration in support of
its arguments in opposition, and fails to analyze Lurence’s statements, or tie
the evidence to any element of any cause of action alleged in their CC.  (See MMM Holdings, Inc. v. Reich
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 167, 185-186 [ruling that plaintiffs do not meet their
burden on the second prong, stating they fail “to recite the required elements
of any cause of action,” fail to analyze declarations and exhibits, and fail to
“tie the evidence to any element of any cause of action”].)
Further,
statements in declarations not based on personal knowledge or that are hearsay
or impermissible opinions, or argumentative, speculative, or conclusory, are
insufficient to show a probability that a cross-complainant will prevail.  (Gilbert v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
13, 26; Dwight R. v. Christy B. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 697, 714.)
Assuming,
arguendo, Cross-Complainants met their burden on prong 2, Plaintiffs’
complaint to the CSLB falls within the litigation privilege, which is absolute
and applies regardless of malice.  (See
Civ. Code §47(b) [defining “privileged publication” as a communication made “in
any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other
official proceeding authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course of
any other proceeding authorized by law”]; Bergstein v. Stroock & Stroock
& Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 814  [“the litigation privilege is absolute and
applies regardless of malice and has been given broad application”], internal
quotations and citations omitted.)
Accordingly, Cross-Complainants
have failed to establish a probability of prevailing on their 1st cause of
action.
 
B.    Common Count (2nd COA)
The elements of a cause of
action for common count are: (1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain
sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3)
nonpayment.  (Farmers Insurance
Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460; see also Allen v.
Powell (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 502, 510; Johnson v. Dixon Farms Co.
(1915) 29 Cal. App. 52, 53-55; see CACI 371.)
Cross-Complainants failed to establish
a probability of prevailing on their claim for common count by failing to
submit sufficient evidence to support a prima facie cause of action.  For the same reasons stated with regard to
the 1st cause of action, Cross-Complainants have failed to establish a probability of prevailing on their
2nd cause of action.
 
C.   
Fraud
(3rd COA)
A cause of action for fraud
requires the following elements (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of
falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) Fraud must be pleaded
with specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity requirement means a plaintiff
must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations,
their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
780, 793.)
Cross-Complainants failed to establish
a probability of prevailing on their claim for fraud by failing to submit
sufficient evidence to support a prima facie cause of action. 
For the same reasons stated with regard to the 1st cause of action,
Cross-Complainants have
failed to establish a probability of prevailing on their 3rd cause of action.
 
Conclusion
          Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ special motion to
strike is granted, except for Cross-Complainants’
allegations of Common Counts contained at ¶CC-1(b)(2), which survives this
motion.  Cross-Defendants may separately move for an
award of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Dated:  September _____, 2023
                                                                             





  