  Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS OF DEFENSE WITNESSES AND
   PERSON(S) MOST QUALIFIED AT ACE AND GROMMET AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS;
   REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December14,
   2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Martina A. Silas
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling defendants Ace Hardware Corporation
(“Ace”) and The Grommet (collectively, “Defendants”) to produce Michael J.
Chmielewski, Erica Simons, Kim Dvorak, and Joanne Domeniconi for deposition, as
well as Defendants’ “persons most qualified” (“PMQ”) regarding 19 topics in her
notice of deposition. Plaintiff also moves for an order to produce documents
responsive to Demand Nos. 2, 4, 5, 7-11, 14-20, and 22-32. Plaintiff further
moves for sanctions in the amount of $660 for the cost of bringing this motion
and a court reporter as well as $10,000 payable to the Court for Defendants’
ongoing abuse of the discovery process. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
A.  
Depositions
of Individual Witnesses
The Court first addresses Plaintiff’s
motion with respect to the some of the individuals mentioned in the deposition
notice: Erica Simons, Kim Dvorak, and Joanne Domeniconi (collectively, the
“Individual Witnesses”). Defendants argue that the motion should be denied as
to these Individual Witnesses because they are not party-affiliated witnesses. 
Persons formerly affiliated with a
party (e.g., former officers or employees) are not required to attend a
deposition unless subpoenaed. (Maldonado v. Sup. Ct. (ICG Telecom
Group, Inc.) (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398.) Accordingly, the Court
cannot compel the attendance of the Individual Witnesses. 
B.  
Depositions
of PMQs and Michael J. Chmielewski
Defendants do not argue that Plaintiff
is not entitled to depose their PMQs or Chmielewski. Rather, they complain that
Plaintiff did not confer with defense counsel to determine mutually agreeable
dates for a deposition. This complaint strains credulity because before filing
this motion, Plaintiff had requested alternate dates, which defense counsel
failed to provide by counsel’s own deadline, November 8, 2023. 
With respect to Plaintiff’s document
demands, Defendants argue that the deposition notice is defective because it
does not state which of the six deponents were requested to produce the
documents. However, these arguments are waived because Defendants did not serve
written objections to the deposition notice before the statutory deadline (3
calendar days before the scheduled deposition). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,
subd. (a).) Plaintiff declares that on October 27, 2023, she found a white
envelope with no return address “stuck into the bottom portion of [her] outer
security door.” (Motion, Silas Decl., ¶ 13.) Inside the envelope was Defendants’
objections to the deposition notice, attached as Exhibit 26 to her exhibit
list. She declares that she “had been in the house all day that day” but no one
knocked on her door or attempted to personally serve her with the objections,
nor was she served by mail or electronic service. Personal service on a
self-represented litigant may be made by leaving the notice or other paper at
the party’s residence with some person 18 years of age or older. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1011, subd. (b).) Any attempt of service upon a party at the party’s
residence shall be made between the hours of 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.; if a person 18
years of age or older cannot be found at the residence, the notice or papers
may be served by mail. (Ibid.) Thus, according to the Code of Civil
Procedure, Plaintiff was not personally served with valid objections. 
Additionally, even assuming that the objections
were properly served, they are still not valid. Defendants’ “general objections”
do not specify the purported errors in each demand. Also, Defendants notably
did not respond to Plaintiff’s separate statement in which she (contrary to
Defendants’ assertion) sets forth good cause for each demand at issue in this
motion. (Separate Statement, pp. 2-31.) 
Last, the Court addresses Defendants’
argument that they did not have sufficient time to gather and produce the
documents identified in the deposition notice. As Defendants themselves state, they
were given 12 days to produce the documents. The Code requires that a
deposition notice must be served at least 10 days before the date set for the
deposition. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.270, subd. (a).) If Defendants found the
document demands unduly burdensome, Defendants could have filed a motion to
quash. Accordingly, Defendants are ordered to produce Chmielewski and PMQs for
the 18 categories for their depositions within 20 days of the date of this
order. Defendants are also ordered to produce documents responsive to Demands
for Documents Nos. 2, 4, 5, 7-11, 14-20, 22-32. If Defendants conclude that it
is necessary to redact portions of documents, Defendants must provide a
privilege log. Defendants are reminded that failure to produce the deponents or
responsive documents as ordered may result in additional sanctions, including
issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or terminating sanctions, as well as
monetary sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (h).) 
C.  
Sanctions
Plaintiff served the deposition notice
on October 16, 2023. (Exh. 24.) The depositions for the Individual Witnesses
were scheduled for October 30, 2023. (Ibid.) Defense counsel, Roberto R.
Martinez, declares that on November 7, 2023, he informed Plaintiff in a
telephone conversation that the Individual Witnesses are no longer employed by
or affiliated with Defendants. (Martinez Decl., ¶ 8.) Mr. Martinez agreed to
provide alternate dates by November 8, 2023 but did not do so. On November 9,
2023, Plaintiff sent an email to Mr. Martinez asking him to confirm that the
Individual Witnesses were not his clients because she did not want to “run
afoul of any rules prohibiting [her] from contacting them directly.” (Silas
Decl., ¶ 17.) Mr. Martinez did not respond to that email. Plaintiff subsequently
filed this motion on November 16, 2023. Mr. Martinez did not inform Plaintiff
that the Individual Witnesses were not represented by Defendants’ counsel until
November 27, 2023. (Martinez Decl., ¶ 10.) Thus, contrary to Defendants’
portrayal of the situation, this motion was clearly necessary due to defense
counsel’s lack of responsiveness. 
Monetary sanctions are mandatory when a
motion to compel deposition is granted, unless the Court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g).) Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and
imposed against Defendant and defense counsel, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $660, consisting of a $60 filing fee and a $600 court reporter fee,
to be paid within 20 days. Defendants’ motion for monetary sanctions is DENIED.

          Plaintiff’s
request for additional monetary sanctions payable to the court or nonmonetary
sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff’s cases are inapposite because they do not
concern sanctions issued in connection with discovery. In general, a court may
not impose issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions unless a party disobeys a
court order. (Moofly Productions, LLC v. Favila (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1,
11.) Further, while sanctions under section 177.5 of the Code of Civil
Procedure are payable to the Court, they also require a failure to obey a court
order. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Defendants are ordered to produce
Chmielewski and PMQs for the 18 categories for their depositions within 20 days
of the date of this order. Defendants are also ordered to produce documents
responsive to Demands for Documents Nos. 2, 4, 5, 7-11, 14-20, 22-32. If
Defendants conclude that it is necessary to redact portions of documents,
Defendants must provide a privilege log. 
Plaintiff’s motion as to the
depositions of the Individual Witnesses (formerly affiliated with Defendants) is
DENIED. 
Sanctions in the amount of $660 are
imposed on Defendants and counsel of record, jointly, to be paid within 20 days
of the date of this Order. 
Defendants are reminded that failure to
produce the deponents, provide responsive documents, or pay sanctions as
ordered may result in additional sanctions, including issue sanctions, evidence
sanctions, or terminating sanctions, as well as monetary sanctions. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (h).)
Dated
this 14th
day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 