 Case Number:  22AHCV00441    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIA GARCIA, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
VOLKSWAGEN
   GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00441
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
   FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   14, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
          This lemon law action concerns plaintiffs
Maria Garcia and Cristina Garcia (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) lease of a 2018
Volkswagen Tiguan (“Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiffs move for an order compelling defendant
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (“Defendant”) to provide further responses and
produce documents responsive to RFP Nos. 1 through 50 from their Requests for
Production of Documents (Set Two). 
          On December
1, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition brief. 
On December 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Chris Lewis. No reply brief is on
file. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
A.  
RFP
Nos. 1 through 9 (Warranty, Repurchase, and Customer Relation Policies,
Procedures, and Practices) 
Defendant argues that this motion
should be denied because the requests at issue are substantively the same as
the document requests included in Plaintiffs’ first set of requests for
production (“Set One”). In particular, Defendant argues that RFP Nos. 1 to 9
from Set Two are duplicative of RFP Nos. 4, 7, 16, 19-21, 23, and 25-31
in Set One. Notably, nowhere in Plaintiffs’ boilerplate meet and confer letters
or separate statement do they address this claim. Furthermore, Plaintiffs did
not submit a substantive reply brief. The Court has reviewed RFP Nos. 1 to 9
and concludes that they are duplicative. Accordingly, the motion as to RFP Nos.
1 to 9 seeking documents related to Defendant’s warranty, repurchase, and
customer relation policies, procedures, and practices is DENIED. 
B.  
RFP
Nos. 10 through 78 (Defendant’s Knowledge of the Same Defects Affecting Other
Vehicles) 
RFP Nos. 10-78 demand documents
(including “electronic mails”) relating to other 2018 Volkswagen Tiguan
vehicles which experienced the same defects that affected the Subject Vehicle
and include the defined phrases “Electrical Defects”, “Engine Defects”, and
“Transmission Defects.” 
Defendant mainly argues that
undertaking a search and review to produce documents responsive to RFP Nos. 10
through 78 would cause undue burden because they essentially demand a search
and review of documents for 120,799 2018 Volkswagen Tiguan vehicles located
across the country even though the same information has already been provided
for 2018 Volkswagen Tiguan vehicles in California. (Opp., pp. 9-10; Tallent
Decl., ¶¶12-16.) 
Defendant submits the declaration of
Chris Lewis which sets forth the factual basis for Defendant’s contention that
undertaking such a search and review would cause undue burden. Plaintiffs
object to portions of this declaration on boilerplate grounds that it lacks
foundation and personal knowledge, is irrelevant, improper lay opinion,
hearsay, and mere argument. Objection Nos. 6, 7, and 10 are SUSTAINED on the
grounds that Lewis has not shown that he has personal knowledge of the document
productions previously made by Defendant. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 10 [statements based
on information and belief].) The rest are overruled. Lewis provides an adequate
foundation for his testimony regarding the amount of work it would take to undertake
this search and review by stating the source of his knowledge (in his role as
the Manager of Products Analysis Group). It is not an “improper” lay opinion
because this is not a topic which requires expert testimony. The declaration is
certainly relevant to the issue of undue burden and is not mere argument.  
Lewis states that Plaintiffs are
demanding that Defendant “review its records related to all 2018 Volkswagen
Tiguan vehicles and all 120,799 owners and lessees, regardless of the state
that they live in, the consumer laws applicable to them, whether their concerns
are caused by defect or otherwise, the environmental conditions the vehicles
were driven in, the different driving and load conditions, the timing and
nature of the different maintenance performed, whether the concerns were fixed
or not, or whether the complained of conditions were covered by VWGoA’s
warranty” for specific defects. Plaintiffs convolutedly define “ELECTRICAL
DEFECTS”, “ENGINE DEFECTS” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECTS” as to include a list of
symptoms that spans 1.5 pages. Lewis states that Defendant does not organize
information by “customer complaint” or by “possible symptom”; rather,
information is organized by vehicle identification number and the parts
serviced or repaired and charged to warranty. Warranty claims cannot be
searched using key words but can only be searched using the particular parts
potentially associated with a complaint about a vehicle. Lewis explains that in
order to search for responsive information regarding all 120,799 vehicles, an
individual with technical expertise would have to review and analyze every
document pertaining to each vehicle, in detail, to determine whether they are
conceivably relevant to the litigation. 
In light of Defendant’s earlier
productions and the testimony provided by Lewis, the Court finds that the
requests, to the extent that they demand documents relating to other 2018
Volkswagen Tiguans outside of California, are unduly burdensome. Insofar as the
requests demand documents relating to 2018 Volkswagen Tiguans inside
California, they are duplicative. 
Last, Defendant argues that RFP Nos.
10-78 are overbroad because they demand “all documents” including “electronic
mails.” The Court previously ruled that Defendant was not required to do a
search of emails as part of producing all documents relating to technical
service bullets issued for 2018 Volkswagen Tiguan vehicles involving the same
part, component, subcomponent, system, assembly, or sub-assembly for which the
Subject Vehicle was subject to one or more repair attempts. The Court imposes
this same limitation to RFP Nos. 10-78. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is
DENIED in its entirety. Defendants’ objection to RFP Nos. 1-9 on the grounds
that it are duplicative of prior discovery is sustained. Defendants’ objections
to RFP Nos. 10 through 78 on the grounds that they are overbroad, unduly
burdensome and duplicative is also sustained. 
Dated
this 14th
day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.