  Case Number:  21STCV08534    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
R.E.L. Construction Inc. and Ariel Sandler’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.               
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff Thomas Scott
Schlange (Plaintiff) submits objections to the materials submitted by
Defendants REL Construction Group and Ariel Sandler (Defendants) in support of
their motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff’s objections to the Sandler
declaration are OVERRULED, as Sandler testifies to matters within his personal
knowledge.
Defendants have in turn
submitted objections to Plaintiff’s materials. Defendants’ objections to the
Schlange declaration are OVERRULED, as are the objections to the declaration of
Kenneth Ruttenburg, Plaintiff’s counsel, which concern exhibits authenticated
during deposition. Defendants’ objection to the request for judicial notice is
likewise OVERRULED, as no matter in the materials to be noticed is considered
for the truth of the facts stated therein.
As to Defendants’
objections to the deposition testimony of Eddie Young Kim and Vered Nissan, the
objections to the Kim deposition are OVERRULED. Kim testifies to knowing
Sandler from various in-person visits, as well as representations made by
Sandler himself that Ron and David Lavon were working on jobs together and were
authorized to cash checks made out to Defendant REL Construction. This
testimony concerning statements made by Sandler himself is not hearsay, because
“[e]vidence of a statement is not made
inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered against the declarant in an
action to which he is a party in either his individual or representative
capacity, regardless of whether the statement was made in his individual or
representative capacity.” (Evid. Code § 1220.) Defendant’s objections to the Nissan
deposition are also OVERRULED, as Nissan may testify to the manner by which she
attempted to verify Sandler’s authorization of the permits in question.
 
II.            
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made
by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendants REL
Construction Group and Ariel Sandler (Defendants) move for summary judgment of
Plaintiff Thomas Scott Schlange’s (Plaintiff) claims against them for breach of
contract and negligent construction on the grounds that their involvement in
the project at issue was non-existent, and that Plaintiff’s belief that they
contracted with REL Construction was solely the product of identity theft
committed by Defendants Ron and David Lavon, who wrongly appropriated the name
and brand of REL Construction to perform work and collect payment nominally on
Defendants’ behalf. (Motion at pp. 11–16.) Defendants rely on the declaration
of Sandler, who testifies that he was not familiar with Ron and David Lavon,
and that he first learned of their alleged construction on Plaintiff’s property
after being presented with the Complaint in this action. (Sandler Decl. ¶¶ 5,
11.) Sandler contends that he first became aware of the Lavons after a February
2021 notification from an investigator for Contractor’s State License Board
(CSLB), after which he discovered a variety of fake webpages set up for REL
Construction, listing incorrect address and phone number information, which he
had not set up or authorized. (Sandler Decl. ¶¶ 7–8.) Defendants rely on Civil
Code § 1798.93, which authorizes a person to bring a cross-action against a
claimant against them on the allegation that “the person is the victim of
identity theft in connection with the claimant’s claim,” and, if successful, to
obtain a judicial declaration that they are not obligated on the claim and an
injunction against further prosecution or collection on the claim, among other
remedies. (Civil Code § 1798.93, subd. (a), (c).)
 
Defendants’ motion
fails because triable issues of fact as to whether they are victims of identity
theft in relation to Plaintiff’s claims. Specifically, Plaintiff presents
evidence that checks for payment from the contract at issue (made out to REL
Construction) were cashed by the Sandler and Lavons at Hermanos 3 Mercado.
(Schlange Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) In deposition, Eddie Young Kim, the principal of
Hermanos 3 Mercado, testified to several pertinent facts:
 
·       Kim at deposition recognized Ariel Sandler’s
name and face because Sandler had been to his business “hundreds” of times to
cash checks for REL Construction (Motion Exh. H at pp. 13, 16–17, 25);
·       Sandler came into his business accompanied by
one of the Lavons at least three times (Motion Exh. H at p. 19);
·       Sandler stated to Kim in 2019 that he and the
Lavons were business partners who were working on a big remodeling job
together; (Motion Exh. H at pp. 22–23);
·       Sandler told Kim that the Lavons were allowed
to use the REL Construction license because they were partners (Motion Exh. H
at pp. 80–81);
·       Sandler cashed some of the checks at issue
personally, sometimes in the presence of one of the Lavons, and presented his
driver’s license and other documents to authenticate his identity and
authorization to cash the checks on behalf of REL Construction (Motion Exh. H
at pp. 26–30);
·       Sandler’s cashing of the checks in question
was recorded contemporaneously on currency transaction reports (CTRs) required
to be submitted to the government for transactions above a certain amount
(Motion Exh. H at pp. 35–37);
·       Sandler did not cash all checks himself, but
authorized the Lavons to cash them, per instructions given by Sandler to Kim
over the phone regarding the individual transactions at issue (Motion Exh. H at
pp. 34, 49, 50);
·       When Sandler called to authorize the Lavons
to cash checks, he asked Kim to set aside certain amounts for Sandler to pick
up himself at a later time, sometimes causing the Lavons to become upset with
the amount of money withheld in this way (Exh. H at pp. 32, 51–52, 78);
·       After putting aside the money for Sandler, he
would come pick it up along with copies of the checks in a sealed envelope.
(Motion Exh. H at pp. 90, 93.)
 
Plaintiff also
presents the deposition testimony of Vered Nissan, who testified to the
following facts:
 
·       Nissan owns a company called VKN Permits,
Inc., which pulls permits on behalf of contractors and projects, including the
projects at issue in this case, on behalf of REL Construction (Motion Exh. C at
pp.  13–18);
·       VKN Permits requires notarized, written
authorization from a general contractor to pull permits, and obtained a written
authorization from REL Construction for the projects at issue here (Motion Exh.
C at pp. 21, 23);
·       The authorization bore Sandler’s signature, (Motion
Exh. C at p. 26);
·       Nissan was introduced to Sandler by David
Lavon, and knew Sandler only through Lavon (Motion Exh. C at pp. 27–28, 32);
·       Daivd Lavon gave the authorizations to Nissan
personally (Motion Exh. C at p. 36);
·       Every permit requested on behalf of REL
Construction was originally requested by the Lavons, and authorized by a
separate written authorization from Sandler (Motion Exh. C at pp. 50–51);
·       Nissan corresponded with Sandler by text and
phone to request information from each other about the permitting process,
during which time Sandler acknowledged Lavon’s involvement (Motion Exh. C at
pp. 45–46, 53–55.) 
 
This testimony
contradicts key aspects of Sandler’s testimony, and indicates that Sandler knew
the Lavons during the pendency of the project and in fact authorized them to
perform the work on behalf of himself and REL Construction. 
 
Defendants’
arguments against this evidence would not preclude a trier of fact from relying
upon it. Defendants in reply argue that Nissan has not produced the written
authorization for the March 2020 permits at issue for Plaintiff’s property, but
does not cite the evidence in support of this contention. (Reply at p. 3.) And
Defendants’ argument as to the hearsay character of Kim’s testimony is likewise
unavailing, since the hearsay rule does not apply to the declarations of a
party opponent to be admitted against that party. (See Evid. Code §
1220.) Moreover, Kim’s testimony does not only consist of Sandler’s statements
to him, but also Sandler’s personal presentation of some of the checks at
issue, and taking a cut of the proceeds of those checks cashed by the Lavons.
Although Defendants’ raise arguments as to why the testimony of these witnesses
should be doubted, such arguments are properly directed toward the trier of
fact. On summary judgment, “[t]he court does not weigh evidence, but instead considers whether the
evidence creates a triable issue of fact. (Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC.
v. Owen (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549.)
The motion is therefore DENIED.
 