 Case Number:  22STCV19818    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Wei Guo’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is SUSTAINED
as to the second cause of action for retaliation, without leave to amend, and
otherwise OVERRULED and DENIED.
 
Defendant
Wei Guo’s Defendant Wei Guo’s Motion to Require Plaintiffs James Morgan and
William Morgan to File an Undertaking is DENIED.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.               
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Wei Guo (Defendant) demurrers to the Complaint
filed by Plaintiffs William and James Morgan (Plaintiffs). The motions are
unopposed, but service has been made upon an address in Illinois other than the
Palmdale address listed on Plaintiffs’ complaint. However, Plaintiffs’ last
filing — a proof of service filed on May 8, 2023 — listed the Illinois address
as their own, and notices received by this court on May 16, 2023, indicate that
mail sent to Plaintiffs at their Palmdale address were returned.  The court therefore proceeds with these
motions as properly served upon Plaintiffs at their last-provided address.
 
A.   
BREACH OF CONTRACT
The elements of a breach of
contract claim are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) A contract
complaint must state “whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied
by conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
Defendant argues that although the lease agreement is
attached to the Complaint, the Complaint alleges an agreement to waive rent
until certain repairs are made, and does not allege the timing or manner of
this amendment. (Demurrer at p. 5; Complaint at p. 3.)
The error of Defendant’s argument is that it relies upon
the label of the claim as one for breach of contract when the substance of the
claim is, as indicated by the body of text beneath it, one for breach of the
covenant of habitability. (Complaint at p. 3.) The warranty of habitability is
expressly invoked in the body of the claim, and the conduct constituting breach
is Defendant’s alleged failure to remedy certain listed defects, including
rodent infestation, lack of a refrigerator, dirty carpet, and broken
countertops. (Complaint at p. 3.) “[W]e look beyond the claim's label, which
is not dispositive when reviewing a trial court's sustaining of a general demurrer.
Instead we focus on the complaint's actual gravamen, on its facts alleged.”
(Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1595,
internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED as to the first cause
of action for breach of contract, properly construed as a breach of the
warranty of habitability claim. 
B.   
RETALIATION
Defendant argues that the second cause of action for
retaliation under Civil Code § 1942.5 fails to identify what retaliation
occurred or what rights Plaintiffs exercised. (Demurrer at p. 6.) This argument
is persuasive, as the retaliation statute identifies as retaliation conduct
that occurs “within 180 days” of certain specified protected activity. (Civ.
Code § 1942.5, subd. (a).) Moreover, Plaintiff’s pleading of the retaliatory
conduct is likewise devoid of timing, and consists of a conclusory allegation
that Defendant engaged in “an escalating pattern of retaliation, harassing,
threatening, withholding services,” without further elaboration. (Complaint at
p. 3.)
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED as to the second cause
of action for retaliation.
C.   
TRESPASS
Defendant argues that the trespass cause of action fails
because it alleges that Defendant trespassed upon Plaintiffs’ premises three
days out of each week, nominally to do repairs, but without ever hiring a
contractor to perform them. (Demurrer at p. 7.) Defendant identifies no defect
in this claim, however, save that the time-frame of “3 days out of each week”
does not provide sufficient notice of the conduct. (Demurrer at p. 7.)
Defendant identifies no authority for this proposition, and the Complaint’s
allegation of “each week” provides sufficient notice.
 
D.   
NUISANCE
Defendant’s argument as to the fourth cause of action for
nuisance is that it consists solely of conclusions of fact and law. (Demurrer
at p. 7.) Yet this claim alleges a nuisance arising from Defendant’s failure to
rectify “insect and rodent infestation throughout the premises” and “rodent
feces throughout the premises.” (Complaint at p. 4.) This allegation is
sufficient, and the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the nuisance claim.
E.   
FRAUD
Defendant argues that the fifth
and sixth causes of action for fraud and deceit are not pleaded with the
requisite particularity. (Demurrer at pp. 7–8.) 
“‘The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1)
concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud
the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if
he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff
sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) Fraud causes of action must be
pleaded with particularity, meaning that the plaintiff must allege “how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
The claims here are pleaded with adequate particularity. It
is alleged that Defendant in July 2022 (likely a typo, meaning to refer to July
2021, when the lease was executed) falsely represented to Plaintiffs that the
premises were habitable and had a refrigerator, when in fact they were not
habitable and no refrigerator existed on the premises. (Complaint at p. 4.) The
demurrer is therefore OVERRULED as to these claims.
 
F.   
UNJUST ENRICHMENT
Defendant last demurrers to the unjust enrichment claim, on
the grounds that an express contract exists between the parties, and Plaintiffs
are not alleged to have paid any money to Defendant for which recompense might
be made. (Demurrer at pp. 8–9.)
 
Defendant misreads the Complaint.
The unjust enrichment claim arises not only from Defendant’s failure to honor
the alleged waiver of rent, but also from Plaintiffs’ alleged repair of the
broken countertops on the premises, for which Defendant has failed to
compensate Plaintiff. (Complaint at p. 6.) Such facts can support a claim for
unjust enrichment. (Kossian v. American Nat. Ins. Co. (1967) 254
Cal.App.2d 647, 651.) 
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED as to this claim.
In summary, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend as to the second cause of action for retaliation, and is otherwise
OVERRULED.
II.            
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to strike
shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which
the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a)). The
court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies striking a
complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99
Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. (Motion at pp. 4–9.)
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice .” (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) The terms are defined as:
“Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).) 
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
Defendant’s argument as to the sufficiency
of the allegations supporting the prayer for punitive damages are unpersuasive,
as the Complaint contains allegations of fraud and misrepresentation of the
conditions of the premises by which Plaintiffs were induced to enter into the
lease agreement and provide repair services for Defendant. These allegations
support the element of “fraud” for the purposes of a punitive damages claim.
The motion to strike is therefore DENIED. 
III.          
MOTION TO
COMPEL AN UNDERTAKING
Defendant requests that this
court order Plaintiffs to post a bond of $100,000.00 as out-of-state plaintiffs
under Code of Civil Procedure § 1030. 
(a) When the
plaintiff in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a
foreign corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by
noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to
secure an award of costs and attorney's fees which may be awarded in the action
or special proceeding. For the purposes of this section, “attorney's fees”
means reasonable attorney's fees a party may be authorized to recover by a
statute apart from this section or by contract.
(b) The
motion shall be made on the grounds that the plaintiff resides out of the state
or is a foreign corporation and that there is a reasonable possibility that the
moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special proceeding. The
motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit in support of the grounds for the
motion and by a memorandum of points and authorities. The affidavit shall set
forth the nature and amount of the costs and attorney's fees the defendant has
incurred and expects to incur by the conclusion of the action or special
proceeding.
(Code Civ. Proc. §
1030, subd. (a)–(b).) This section “provides that upon a defendant's motion,
the trial court is required to order an out-of-state plaintiff to file an
undertaking to secure recoverable costs and attorney's fees if the defendant
shows a reasonable possibility that it will obtain judgment in the action.” (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1427, 1430.) 
 
Although Plaintiffs
listed their address as being on Scranton Court in Palmdale on their Complaint
and in their case management statement, their most recent filing — a proof of
service form — indicates an address on Schumacher Drive in Naperville,
Illinois. This court has received notices of returned mail sent to Plaintiffs
at their original listed address as of May 16, 2023. This motion has been
served to the address most recently listed on Plaintiffs’ filings, and no
opposition has been filed. 
 
However, no
undertaking is proper under this motion. To obtain an order requiring an
undertaking, the defendant most show “that there is a reasonable possibility
that the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1030, subd. (b).) Defendant has made no showing of probability or possibility
of prevailing. The only evidence cited for that position is the following
statement in the declaration of Defendant’s counsel: “There is a reasonable
possibility that the moving GUO will obtain judgment in the action and be the
prevailing party under California Civil Procedure Code § 998.” (Bowen Decl. ¶
6.) This assessment is offered without foundation or elaboration, and the
motion is otherwise bereft of any assessment of the case or its allegations.
 
The motion is
therefore DENIED.
 