  Case Number:  24TRCV00745    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka     Wednesday, January 15, 2025 
Department M    Calendar No. 18   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rita
Hoady v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et al.   
24TRCV00745
1.     
American Honda
Motor Company, Inc.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING

American Honda Motor Company, Inc.’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint is overruled.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 1, 2024. Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint on August 29, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the following
facts. Plaintiff alleges that her 2017 Honda Pilot suffers from various defects
including electrical defects, engine defects, transmission defects, and other defects
and non-conformities. Plaintiff set forth causes of action under the
Song-Beverly Act: 1. Violation of Civ. Code 1793.2(d);
2. Violation of Civ. Code 1793.2(b); 3. Violation of Civ. Code 1793.2(a)(3); 4.
Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability.  

 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. (Decl., Leanna L. H. Vault.)
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendant demurs to the FAC and the first through
fourth causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts to state a cause
of action. Defendant argues that the causes of action are barred by the
applicable statute of limitations. Defendant also argues that the causes of
action fail to plead the requisite facts to set forth the elements of the
causes of action.
 
First Cause of Action for Violation of Civ. Code
1793.2(d)
Second Cause of Action for Violation of Civ. Code
1793.2(b)
Third Cause of Action for Violation of Civ. Code
1793.2(a)(3)
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability  
 
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. Plaintiff states
sufficient facts to state the first through fourth causes of action.
 
Civ. Code, § 1793.2 states, in relevant part:
(a) Every manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this
state and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty shall:
(3) Make available to authorized service and repair
facilities sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect
repairs during the express warranty period.
(b) Where those service and repair facilities are
maintained in this state and service or repair of the goods is necessary
because they do not conform with the applicable express warranties, service and
repair shall be commenced within a reasonable time by the manufacturer or its
representative in this state. Unless the buyer agrees in writing to the
contrary, the goods shall be serviced or repaired so as to conform to the
applicable warranties within 30 days. Delay caused by conditions beyond the
control of the manufacturer or its representatives shall serve to extend this
30-day requirement. Where delay arises, conforming goods shall be tendered as
soon as possible following termination of the condition giving rise to the
delay.
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), if the
manufacturer or its representative in this state does not service or repair the
goods to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number
of attempts, the manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the
buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that
amount directly attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the
nonconformity. However, if the manufacturer or its representative in this state
does not service or repair a travel trailer or a portion of a motor home
designed, used, or maintained for human habitation, to conform to the
applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the buyer
shall be free to elect reimbursement in lieu of replacement, and in no event
shall the buyer be required by the manufacturer to accept a replacement travel
trailer or motor home.
(2) If the manufacturer or its representative in this
state is unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle, as that term is
defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22, to conform to
the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the
manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance
with subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance
with subparagraph (B). However, the buyer shall be free to elect restitution in
lieu of replacement, and in no event shall the buyer be required by the
manufacturer to accept a replacement vehicle.
(A) In the case of replacement, the manufacturer shall
replace the buyer's vehicle with a new motor vehicle substantially identical to
the vehicle replaced. The replacement vehicle shall be accompanied by all
express and implied warranties that normally accompany new motor vehicles of
that specific kind. The manufacturer also shall pay for, or to, the buyer the
amount of any sales or use tax, license fees, registration fees, and other
official fees which the buyer is obligated to pay in connection with the replacement,
plus any incidental damages to which the buyer is entitled under Section 1794,
including, but not limited to, reasonable repair, towing, and rental car costs
actually incurred by the buyer.
(B) In the case of restitution, the manufacturer shall
make restitution in an amount equal to the actual price paid or payable by the
buyer, including any charges for transportation and manufacturer-installed
options, but excluding nonmanufacturer items installed by a dealer or the
buyer, and including any collateral charges such as sales or use tax, license
fees, registration fees, and other official fees, plus any incidental damages
to which the buyer is entitled under Section 1794, including, but not limited
to, reasonable repair, towing, and rental car costs actually incurred by the
buyer.
(C) When the manufacturer replaces the new motor
vehicle pursuant to subparagraph (A), the buyer shall only be liable to pay the
manufacturer an amount directly attributable to use by the buyer of the
replaced vehicle prior to the time the buyer first delivered the vehicle to the
manufacturer or distributor, or its authorized service and repair facility for
correction of the problem that gave rise to the nonconformity. When restitution
is made pursuant to subparagraph (B), the amount to be paid by the manufacturer
to the buyer may be reduced by the manufacturer by that amount directly
attributable to use by the buyer prior to the time the buyer first delivered
the vehicle to the manufacturer or distributor, or its authorized service and
repair facility for correction of the problem that gave rise to the
nonconformity. The amount directly attributable to use by the buyer shall be
determined by multiplying the actual price of the new motor vehicle paid or
payable by the buyer, including any charges for transportation and
manufacturer-installed options, by a fraction having as its denominator 120,000
and having as its numerator the number of miles traveled by the new motor
vehicle prior to the time the buyer first delivered the vehicle to the
manufacturer or distributor, or its authorized service and repair facility for
correction of the problem that gave rise to the nonconformity. Nothing in this
paragraph shall in any way limit the rights or remedies available to the buyer
under any other law.
(D) Pursuant to Section 1795.4, a buyer of a new motor
vehicle shall also include a lessee of a new motor vehicle.”
 
Civ. Code, § 1791.1 states:
“As used in this chapter:
(a) “Implied warranty of merchantability” or “implied
warranty that goods are merchantable” means that the consumer goods meet each
of the following:
(1) Pass without objection in the trade under the
contract description.
(2) Are fit for the ordinary purposes for which such
goods are used.
(3) Are adequately contained, packaged, and labeled.
(4) Conform to the promises or affirmations of fact
made on the container or label.
(b) “Implied warranty of fitness” means (1) that when
the retailer, distributor, or manufacturer has reason to know any particular
purpose for which the consumer goods are required, and further, that the buyer
is relying on the skill and judgment of the seller to select and furnish
suitable goods, then there is an implied warranty that the goods shall be fit
for such purpose and (2) that when there is a sale of an assistive device sold
at retail in this state, then there is an implied warranty by the retailer that
the device is specifically fit for the particular needs of the buyer.
(c) The duration of the implied warranty of
merchantability and where present the implied warranty of fitness shall be
coextensive in duration with an express warranty which accompanies the consumer
goods, provided the duration of the express warranty is reasonable; but in no
event shall such implied warranty have a duration of less than 60 days nor more
than one year following the sale of new consumer goods to a retail buyer. Where
no duration for an express warranty is stated with respect to consumer goods,
or parts thereof, the duration of the implied warranty shall be the maximum
period prescribed above.
(d) Any buyer of consumer goods injured by a breach of
the implied warranty of merchantability and where applicable by a breach of the
implied warranty of fitness has the remedies provided in Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 2601) and Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2701) of Division 2
of the Commercial Code, and, in any action brought under such provisions,
Section 1794 of this chapter shall apply.”
 
Cal. U. Com. Code, § 2725 states, in relevant part:
“(1) An action for breach of any contract for sale
must be commenced within four years after the cause of action has accrued. By
the original agreement the parties may reduce the period of limitation to not
less than one year but may not extend it.
(2) A cause of action accrues when the breach occurs,
regardless of the aggrieved party's lack of knowledge of the breach. A breach
of warranty occurs when tender of delivery is made, except that where a
warranty explicitly extends to future performance of the goods and discovery of
the breach must await the time of such performance the cause of action accrues
when the breach is or should have been discovered.”
 
“We [. . . ] apply the discovery rule of California
Uniform Commercial Code section 2725, subdivision (2). The statutory
presumption aids a car owner in establishing when he or she has made a
reasonable number of attempts to repair the vehicle. But it does not preclude
an earlier date. [. . .] [¶] This conclusion is consistent with the policy of
the Act requiring buyers to give the seller of a “lemon” automobile a
reasonable opportunity to repair it. If we adopted the position urged by
respondent and held that a cause of action for breach of express warranty
accrues on tender of delivery, before the seller has an opportunity to repair
any defects, we would undermine the legislative purpose that the parties
attempt to resolve any deficiencies in performance before resorting to the
remedies provided in the Act. In light of our conclusion that actions for
breach of warranty under the Act and under the California Uniform Commercial
Code are governed by the same statute of limitations, the same rule of accrual must
apply to both causes of action. Application of California Uniform Commercial
Code section 2725, subdivision (2) provides this consistency while meeting the
policies of the Act.” Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports, Inc. (1991) 234
Cal.App.3d 205, 218–219. The duration period for breach of the implied warranty
of merchantability matches that of the other claims under the Song-Beverly Act.
Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1304.
 
Based on the allegations of the First Amended
Complaint, a bar based on the applicable statutes of limitations is not
revealed. Plaintiff has alleged facts that she did not discover the breach
until after Defendant conducted the attempted repairs on the vehicle. The last
repair was allegedly conducted on August 10, 2022. The Complaint was filed on
March 1, 2024, within four years of that date. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following relevant facts:
 
“Plaintiff discovered Defendant’s wrongful conduct
alleged herein shortly before filing this Complaint when the Subject Vehicle
continued to exhibit symptoms of defects following Defendant’s unsuccessful
attempts to repair them. Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant
on multiple separate occasions to repair the Subject Vehicle of the defects,
including, but not limited to August 10, 2017 at 3,707 miles; January 09, 2018
at 11,622 miles; May 19, 2021 at 95,937 miles; October 01, 2021 at 105,631
miles; and August 10, 2022 at 127,338 miles. Furthermore, Plaintiff timely
filed their complaint on March 01, 2024, which is well within the statutes of
limitations. However, Defendant failed to provide restitution pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.” (FAC, ¶ 29).
 
“Plaintiff had no way of knowing about Defendant’s
deception with respect to the defects until the defect manifested itself and
Defendant was unable to repair it after a reasonable number of repair attempts
(See ¶¶ 22-25). Within the time period of any applicable statutes of
limitation, Plaintiff could not have discovered through the exercise of
reasonable diligence that Defendant were concealing the Defect and conduct
complained of herein and concealing the companies’ true position with respect
to the defects. Plaintiff also presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s
authorized repair facility during Defendant’s powertrain warranty (e.g., August
10, 2017 at 3,707 miles; January 09, 2018 at 11,622 miles), which is
5-years/60,000 miles. Furthermore, after each repair visit for the multiple and
recurring defects, Defendant represented to Plaintiff that the Subject Vehicle
was repaired and/or operating as normal, but the Subject Vehicle continued to
experience symptoms of the defects and required several later repair visits
through 2022, therefore tolling the
discovery rule. (See ¶¶ 23-25). Defendant was under a continuous duty to
disclose to Plaintiff the true character, quality, and nature of the Vehicles
suffering from the defects, and the inevitable repairs, costs, time, and
monetary damage resulting from the defects. Plaintiff did not discover, and did
not know of, facts that would have caused a reasonable person to suspect that
Defendants had concealed information about the defects in Defendant’s Vehicles prior
to and at the time of sale and thereafter, which was discovered by Plaintiff
shortly prior to the filing of this Complaint. After each repair visit to
Defendant’s authorized repair facility under Defendant’s express warranty
(e.g., powertrain warranty 5- years/60,000 miles), Plaintiff’s Subject Vehicle
was presented as operating normal and/or repaired.” (FAC, ¶¶ 33-36.) 
 
While Plaintiff’s reference to discovery “shortly
before” filing the Complaint is somewhat vague, all inferences from the factual
allegations can lead to a reasonable conclusion that this discovery date was at
least after October 2022. Defendant’s demurrer based on the bar of the
applicable statutes of limitations is overruled.
 
In addition, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient factual
allegations to support each cause of action. 
 
Paragraphs 41-44 of the FAC adequately sets forth
facts to support a cause of action pursuant to Civ. Code § 1793.2(d). The
factual allegations are sufficient to state a cause of action under the theory
that Defendant was “unable to service or repair the Vehicle to conform to the
applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of repair attempts, yet
Defendant failed and refused to promptly replace the Vehicle or make
restitution.” (FAC, ¶ 44.)
 
Paragraphs 47-49 of the FAC adequately sets forth
facts to support a cause of action pursuant to Civ. Code § 1793.2(b). The
factual allegations are sufficient to state a cause of action under the theory that
Defendant “failed to commence the service or repairs within a reasonable time
and failed to service or repair the Vehicle to conform to the applicable
warranties within 30 days[.]” (FAC, ¶ 48.)
 
Paragraphs 52-53 of the FAC adequately sets forth
facts to support a cause of action pursuant to Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3). The
factual allegations are sufficient to state a cause of action under the theory
that Defendant “failed to make available to its authorized service and repair
facilities sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect
repairs during the express warranty period.” (FAC, ¶ 53.)
 
Finally, paragraphs 55-58 of the FAC adequately sets
forth facts to support a cause of action for Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability. The factual allegations are sufficient to state a cause of
action under the theory that the vehicle contained an implied warranty of
merchantability and that latent defects existed which breached that warranty. (FAC,
¶ 58.)
 
It is apparent from statements made in the demurrer
that Defendant attempts to impose a heightened pleading standard upon Plaintiff
and that Defendant appears to be quite concerned with the volume of litigation
perpetrated by Plaintiff’s counsel. This Court cannot consider other pleadings
or actions generated by Plaintiff’s counsel when evaluating this demurrer and
can only consider the factual allegations of the FAC of this action. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve an Answer
within 10 days of this date.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 