 Case Number:  23TRCV03706    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  B This Motion seeks to have the Court order the Plaintiff to attend
his deposition and seeks $625 in sanctions. 
It was filed July 1, 2024.
This Song Beverly Act lawsuit was filed November 7,
2023.  Defendant filed its Answer
December 14, 2023.
Defendant American Honda Motor Company served its first
Notice of Deposition on January 3, 2024 scheduling Plaintiff’s deposition on February
27, 2024.  Plaintiff objected on February
22, 2024, stating that:
“This deposition was unilaterally
noticed by Defendant for a date and time on which Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff's
counsel is unavailable.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff will not be produced for the deposition on the date, time, and
location noticed.  Plaintiff will meet
and confer with Defendant to reschedule the deposition on a date and time that
is mutually convenient.”
[The Court would appreciate an explanation from Plaintiff’s counsel
why it took from January 3, 2024 until February 22, 2024 to determine that the
February 27, 2024 deposition date did not work as “Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff's
counsel is unavailable”.  Given the
significant advance notice, a calendar conflict, if it existed at the time of
the receipt of the Notice, should have been timely brought forward, rather than
waiting approximately 50 days.  Please
provide an explanation for the delay.]
An Amended Notice was then served on April 22, 2024, after Plaintiff’s
counsel provided June 3, 4, or 5, 2024 as deposition dates.  This Amended Notice scheduled the deposition for
June 4, 2024.  On May 29, 2024 Defense
counsel inquired of Plaintiff’s counsel if a translator was required for Plaintiff,
and Plaintiff’s counsel advised Defense counsel that a Spanish language
translator would be required.  However,
on the day of the deposition it was learned that Plaintiff does not speak
Spanish.  Plaintiff speaks Tagalog.  The deposition could not go forward as a
result.
On June 4 and 11, 2024 Defense counsel attempted to meet and
confer with Plaintiff’s counsel to reschedule the deposition.  The parties were not able to establish an
acceptable date for the deposition.  On
June 25, 2024 Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendants’ counsel:
“Hi Mikaela, Sorry for the delay.
We’re looking at availability during the 3rd and 4th week of July for the
rescheduled depo with the Tagalog translator. I’ll let you know as soon as we
have a few solid dates. Lmk any questions, thanks. Regards, Daniel Law”
On July 15, 2024 (2 weeks after this Motion was filed) Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed Defense counsel advising that August 29, 2024 would be a good
date for the deposition.  Because Defense
counsel was going to be out of town on a Honeymoon, Defense Counsel asked for a
date in mid-September.  (The Case
Management Conference Statement that Defense counsel had filed on April 19,
2024 indicated that counsel was not available from August 12 – September 5,
2024.  The Court does not fault Plaintiff’s
counsel for not noting that fact when trying to schedule the deposition.)
Plaintiff’s counsel responded on July 17, 2024 stating “I
will obtain new dates from our client for mid- September.”
No new deposition date has been disclosed to the Court by
either side.
Plaintiff opposes the Motion arguing
“Defendant's Motion to Compel
Plaintiff's Deposition should be denied.  As explained below, Plaintiff offered
Defendant a date for his deposition to be completed in August of 2024.  Plaintiff was then informed by Defendant that
the August date did not work and asked for dates to occur in September.  Plaintiff is now working on obtaining
Defendant three (3) new dates for his deposition to be completed in September
2024.”
The Court shall order that the deposition take place on a
date certain at a time and location to be stated in the Court’s Order.  The parties should be fully prepared to
provide a mutually acceptable date, or the Court intends to select a date and
require strict compliance with the Court’ Order.
Sanctions.
Defendant’s Notice of motion states:
“PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that on July
31, 2024, at 8:30 … Defendant American Honda … moves for an order to compel
Plaintiff Benefrido Arceo’s ("Plaintiff") deposition, and for
monetary sanctions in the amount of $625.00.”
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.040 provides:
“A request for a sanction shall, in
the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against
whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The
notice of motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities,
and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of
any monetary sanction sought.”  (Bold
added.)
The Court did not find a notice identifying any person against
whom sanctions was sought.  The Sanctions
shall be denied on that basis.
A Word about “Conditions” on Discovery
“Good morning, Mikaela: We can
offer you the following dates for the deposition of Plaintiff Benefrido Arceo, provided
that, by 24 hours before the Plaintiff deposition date, you have given us a PMK
deposition date which is before the discovery cutoff date, and Defendant
document production.”  (Bold added.)
While the Court expects all counsel to cooperate in good
faith to schedule discovery events, the Court does not find it to be an acceptable
practice to set forth conditions such as that quoted above.  It has already taken too long to schedule
Plaintiff’s deposition.  It would be most
regrettable were the deposition to be cancelled because of an failure to meet
this “condition.”  However, the Court
also expects Defense counsel to act diligently in obtaining acceptable dates
for the PMK deposition.  Do not put off
until tomorrow that which may be done today. 
The parties should work together diligently to schedule events so that
they are fully prepared to timely and successfully mediate or, failing to succeed
in that effort, the parties timely comply with the trial date obligations.