 Case Number:  22TRCV00096    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
THE
  ROOSK GROUP INC.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00096




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
JAMIE
  MCDANIEL, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 31, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff The Roosk Group
Inc.
Responding
Party:                   Defendants Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., and Diane Zane
Motion
to Compel Discovery from Defendants
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
The
motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On February 9, 2022, plaintiffs
TelcoLynx, LLC and The Roosk Group Inc. filed a complaint against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc, Diane Zane, and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On June 28, 2022, plaintiffs filed a
FAC. 
            On August 12, 2022, the court
granted defendant Friendly Llama’s motion to disqualify counsel, Callagy Law,
P.C. as counsel for plaintiff TelcoLynx. 
            On January 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff Roosk Group, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
 
On January 17, 2023, The Roosk
Group, Inc. and nominal party Telcolynx, LLC filed a SAC against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On May 24, 2023, the court denied
defendant Friendly Llama’s request to strike “nominal plaintiff” Telcolynx, LLC
from the SAC.
            On September 29, 2023, after taking
the matter under submission, the court denied defendants’ motion to strike
plaintiff The Roosk Group’s derivative claims against defendants.  The motion to strike was granted with leave
to amend to striking Telcolynx as a “nominal plaintiff” and allowing plaintiff
to amend to name Telcolynx as a “nominal defendant.”
            On October 19, 2023, The Roosk Group
Inc. filed a TAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane, Zane
Consulting, Inc., and Telcolynx, LLC for (1) breach of oral contract (against
Friendly Llama), (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against
Friendly Llama), (3) breach of fiduciary duties (against Friendly Llama), (4)
breach of fiduciary duties (against McDaniel), (5) fraud (against Friendly
Llama and McDaniel), (6) rescission of contract (against Zane Consulting), (7)
breach of contract (against Zane and Zane Consulting), and (8) unjust
enrichment (against Zane and Zane Consulting).
            On November 16, 2023, Zane
Consulting filed a motion for summary judgment.
            On February 1, 2024, the court
continued the hearing on Zane Consulting’s motion for summary judgment based on
plaintiffs’ request for a continuance to complete discovery.
            On March 1, 2024, the court granted
defendant Jamie McDaniel’s motions to compel The Roosk Group to respond to
defendant’s written discovery.
            On June 24, 2024, the court granted
Zane Consulting’s motion for summary judgment.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
CCP
§2030.230 states:  “If the answer to an
interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation,
abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the
interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making
it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory
as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to
refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be
derived or ascertained. . . .”
CCP §2030.010(b)
provides:  “An interrogatory may relate
to whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts,
witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.  An interrogatory is not objectionable because
an answer to it involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the
application of law to fact, or would be based on 
information obtained or legal theories developed in
anticipation of litigation or in preparation for 
trial.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).
A statement of compliance shall
state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be
allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.  CCP § 2031.220.  
“A representation of inability to
comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.  This statement shall
also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  This statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.”  CCP §
2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
The Roosk Group requests an order to compel defendant Jamie McDaniel, Friendly
Llama, Inc., and Diane Zane to provide complete responses to plaintiff’s second
set of discovery requests. 
            Plaintiff
explains that on September 22, 2023, it served a second set of discovery
demands, including special interrogatories and request for production of
documents, on defendants.  Plaintiff’s
counsel agreed to an extension to November 14, 2023 for defendants to
respond.  Defendants served responses on
November 14.  Emails dated from November
2023 discuss an agreement as to an “open extension on the time to seek relief
from the court related to these discovery issues up to seven days from the date
we complete our conferals.”  On December
13, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to defense
counsel.  Plaintiff asserts that counsel continued
to meet and confer, which what appears to be through December 2023, and that on
April 24, 2024, defendants served supplemental responses.  On May 30, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter as to “continued deficiencies.”  Counsel met and conferred via a conference
call on June 5, 2024.  Plaintiff contends
that defendants agreed to extend the deadline for bringing a motion to compel
to June 27, 2024.  The motion was filed
on June 27.
            In
opposition, defendants point out that the motion is procedurally deficient
because it does not state the grounds upon which the motion is made or identify
which specific set number or specific request numbers are at issue.  Defendants further point out that the motion improperly
combines six different motions against three different parties.  Defendants argue that the motion is untimely
as to McDaniel and Zane and to certain requests as to Friendly Llama because
the extension to file a motion to June 27, 2024 “was limited to the
supplemental discovery served on April 26.” 
As to Zane, plaintiff seeks to compel Zane to provide further responses
to Special Interrogatories Nos. 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, and 17 and Request for
Production Nos. 20, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, asserting that Zane did not
provide any responses, which “is not true.” 
Zane served responses to those requests on November 14, 2023, and did
not supplement the responses.  As to
McDaniel, plaintiff seeks to compel McDaniel to provide further responses to
Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 16, 17, and 18 and Request for Production Nos.
18, 21, 23, 26, 27, and 28, asserting that McDaniel did not provide any
responses, which is also “not true” because McDaniel served responses on
November 14, 2023.  As to Friendly Llama,
it served responses on November 13 as to Special Interrogatories Nos. 16, 20,
21, and 22 and Request for Production Nos. 20, 23, 24, 27, and 28, and served
supplemental responses on April 26 as to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14 and 15
and Request for Production Nos. 18, 19, 21, 22, and 29.
            Defendants
further argue that as to the timely-filed motion as to Request for Production
Nos. 21 and 22, Friendly Llama responded in its supplemental response that it
will produce all responsive documents within its possession, custody, or
control.  Friendly Llama contends that
its response was code-compliant and that there is nothing for the Court to
compel.  Defendant asserts that plaintiff’s
argument appears to be that the produced documents were not Bates stamped or
identified, but that CCP §2031.310 does not authorize such relief.  As to the timely-filed motion as to Special
Interrogatory Nos. 14, and 15, defendant properly responded by identifying all
vendors.
            There
is no reply.
The Court rules as follows:  At
the outset, the Court finds that the motion is procedurally improper.  The notice does not identify the requests at
issue.  Rather, plaintiff refers the
Court to review the separate statement, which was not filed separately, but
rather “annexed” to the motion, and combines six sets of discovery as to three
defendants.  Also, the notice cites to
CCP §2031.310, which is authority to compel further responses to request for
production of documents, but the separate statement also includes special
interrogatories.  Further, the motion
improperly combines several motions into one as it appears to be seeking an
order compelling further responses to special interrogatories and requests for
production of documents and from three different defendants.  
Further,
as explained by defendants, the motion is untimely as to several of the
requests.  As to the requests at issue
and for which the motion was timely filed, defendants served proper
code-compliant responses.
The
motion is thus DENIED.
Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” 
            The
Court denies each party’s request for sanctions.  
 
ORDER
The
motion DENIED. 
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.