  Case Number:  21STCV09344    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELESLISA STEINMETZ, Plaintiff, vs. CITY OF LOS ANGELES; CITY OF CALABASAS; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, Defendants. AND ALL RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS. ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 21STCV09344 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: CROSS-DEFENDANT M.D. CO TR MOTTAHADEH TRUST’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION Dept. B DATE: OCTOBER 7, 2024 TIME: 8:30 A.M. COMPLAINT FILED: MARCH 6, 2024 TRIAL DATE: DECEMBER 9, 2024I. BACKGROUNDOn March 10, 2021, Plaintiff Lisa Steinmetz (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint in the instant action against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“Los Angeles”), City of Calabasas (“Calabasas”), and DOES 1 through 100 (“DOES”)(collectively “Defendants”) for premises liability. Plaintiff alleges Defendants negligently maintained the roadway on Valmar Road at or near its intersection with Brenford Street, causing Plaintiff to fall from her bicycle and sustain injuries.On June 4, 2021, Calabasas filed a cross-complaint against Los Angeles, the County of Los Angeles (“County”), and MOES 1 through 25 for indemnity and contribution.On August 26, 2021, Calabasas filed a first amended cross-complaint for indemnity and contribution, adding Cleanstreet, Inc. (“Cleanstreet”) as a cross-defendant.On July 26, 2023, Cleanstreet filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Shaban Sedaghati and Tamara Sedaghati Revocable Trust (“Sedaghati Trust”) and M.D. Co. Tr. Mottahedeh Trust (“Mottahedeh Trust”). The motion was granted on October 18, 2023.On March 6, 2024, Cleanstreet filed a cross-complaint against the Sedaghati Trust and the Mottahedeh Trust for indemnity and contribution.On June 5, 2024, the matter was assigned to the Honorable Judge Moskowitz in Department B of Van Nuys Courthouse East.On June 28, 2024, Mottahedeh Trust filed the instant motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication against Cleanstreet’s March 6, 2024, cross-complaint for indemnity and contribution.On September 23, 2024, Cleanstreet filed their opposition.On October 2, 2024, Mottahedeh Trust filed their reply.II. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONMottahedeh Trust moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on all three causes of action alleged in Cleanstreet’s cross-complaint: (1) implied and equitable indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; and (3) comparative contribution. (See Motion at p. 2.) Mottahedeh Trust brings its motion on the grounds that it did not own, control, or maintain the dangerous condition which allegedly caused Plaintiff’s injuries. (Undisputed Separate Statement of Fact “USSF” Nos. 11 [Mottahedeh Decl. ¶ 6], 12 [Mottahedeh Decl. ¶ 7], 13 [Mottahedeh Decl. ¶ 8], and 14 [Mottahedeh Decl. ¶ 9].) As a result, Mottahedeh Trust alleges that Cleanstreet’s claim fails as a matter of law.III. LEGAL STANDARDSBurden on Summary Judgment or Summary AdjudicationIn reviewing a motion for summary judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met his or her initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)A moving defendant may satisfy the initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be established by “presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses to show that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) “The defendant must present evidence… showing that plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.)Unless and until a defendant meets that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468[“There is no obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.On the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)IV. DISCUSSIONEvidentiary ObjectionsCleanstreet’s September 23, 2024, evidentiary objections to the declaration of David Mottahedeh (“Mottahedeh”) are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4. Mottahedeh does not present himself as an expert. Rather, he provides his declaration on matters within his personal knowledge as Mottahedeh Trust’s person most knowledgeable and authorized agent. (Mottahedeh Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.)Mottahedeh Trust’s October 2, 2024, evidentiary objections are overruled.Defendant’s BurdenMottahedeh Trust meets their initial burden as to all three causes of action in Cleanstreet’s cross-complaint. To succeed on claims for indemnity and contribution, the claimant must prove the prospective indemnitor’s liability. “[T]here can be no indemnity without liability.In other words, unless the prospective indemnitor and indemnitee are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff there is no basis for indemnity.” (Munoz v. Davis (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 420, 425.)Cleanstreet’s cross-complaint for indemnity and contribution stems from Plaintiff’s claim that Cleanstreet negligently created the pool of water which caused her to fall from her bicycle and sustain injuries. (USSF No. 3, Ex. A [Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint].) It is undisputed that the pool of water came from a storm drain, pipes, and water system that were located on a vacant lot adjacent to Manson Avenue. (USSF No. 5, Ex. C [Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, No. 3], Ex. D [City of Calabasas’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, No. 3], Ex. E [City of Los Angeles’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, No. 3].) Mottahedeh Trust is a joint owner of this vacant lot. (Mottahedeh Decl. ¶ 6.) It is undisputed that the County of Los Angeles owned an easement on the vacant lot at the time of Plaintiff’s injuries. (USSF No. 6, Ex. F [Easement].) The easement granted an easement to the County “for, and the right to construct, maintain, operate, and use, storm drains and appurtenant structures in and across the real property. . .” (USSF No. 7, Ex. F [Easement].)Control Over the Hazardous ConditionsMottahedeh Trust’s liability for Plaintiff’s injuries turns on whether Mottahedeh Trust had control over the conditions which created the hazard. “The nature of the duty owned by the owner of an interest in real property must have a relationship to the degree of control conferred by the scope of the ownership interest itself.” (Cody F. v. Falletti (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1243.) “Examples demonstrating the required relationship between a plaintiff’s injury and the scope of the easement owner’s rights in the land are primarily cases involving power companies with easements for the placement of electric lines.” (Ibid.) “In such a case, liability is imposed onthe easement holder for harm caused by the presence of the electrical fixtures.” (Ibid.) “A duty clearly arises for one who creates and controls the potential hazard.” (Ibid.)In Vinson v. Ham Bros, Inc. (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 990, liability was imposed upon a sewer subcontractor who was the easement holder of a public street to dig trenches. (Vinson, at 996.) In Vinson the Court held that “the right to obstruct a public street to construct necessary public improvements carries with it a corresponding duty to erect adequate barriers, lights, and warning devices to protect those who travel the street from injury.” (Ibid.)Cody F. and Vinson demonstrate the close connection between liability and the party which creates and controls the potential hazard. While Mottahedeh Trust may jointly own the underlying property, they are the subservient tenant with respect to the easement. Instead, the easement clearly prescribes the right to “construct, maintain, operate, and use, storm drains and appurtenant structures in and across the real property” to the County. (USSF No. 7, Ex. F [Easement].) Subsequently, like the liability imposed upon power companies for hazardous conditions created by electric lines on easements, liability for hazardous conditions created by the storm drain and its appurtenant structures must be imposed upon the County. Therefore, Mottahedeh Trust cannot be held liable for the pool of water resulting from negligently maintained storm drains on the County’s easement, and Cleanstreet’s claims for indemnity and contribution fail as a matter of law.Plaintiff’s BurdenThe burden now shifts to Cleanstreet to show a triable issue of fact as to the County’s easement. Cleanstreet’s argument for Mottahedeh Trust’s liability rests entirely on its joint ownership, and presupposed control, of the vacant lot and its easement. In support of its argument, Cleanstreet cites to Alvarez v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, where the Court held that a triable issue of fact existed as a landlord’s control over part of a city-owned strip of landadjacent to the landlord’s property. (Alvarez, at 1155-1156.) Cleanstreet also cites to Alpert v. Romano Homeowners Association (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1320, where the Court held that the owner of a condominium complex could be held liable for cracks in the public sidewalk before the complex. (Alpert, at 1329-1331.)However, Alvarez and Alpert differ from the case at hand. In Alvarez, the landlord exercised control over the land at issue when he maintained its lawn and erected a fence encompassing the strip of land. (Alvarez, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 1161-1162.) In Alpert, a triable issue of fact existed as to whether the cracks in the sidewalk resulted from the overgrown roots of a tree on the condominium complex’s lawn, which the owners of the condominium complex controlled. (Alpert, supra, 81 Cal.App.4th at 1329.) “[I]n identifying the party vulnerable to a verdict, control dominates over title. ‘The crucial element is control.’ [Citation.]” (Low v. City of Sacramento (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 826, 831.)Here, Cleanstreet presents no evidence that Mottahedeh Trust exercised any control over the storm drain or its related structures. Instead, it remains undisputed that the County “construct[s], maintain[s], operate[s], and use[s], storm drains and appurtenant structures in and across the real property.” (USSF No. 7, Ex. F [Easement].) Therefore, Cleanstreet fails to meet their burden.V. CONCLUSIONNo triable issue of material fact exists as to Mottahedeh Trust’s liability for the formation of water which caused Plaintiff’s injuries. Accordingly, Mottahedeh Trust’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.Moving party is ordered to give notice.Dated: October 7, 2024 __________________________________Hon. Karen MoskowitzJudge of the Superior Court