  Case Number:  19GDCV00389    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JAMES P. MURPHY CONSTRUCTION, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
T.B.
   PENICK & SONS, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19GDCV00389
 
[TENTATIVE}
  ORDER: RE: T.B. PENICK & SONS, INC.’S MOTION IN LIMINE #2 TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE
  OF CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October 17,
  2024




AND
  RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


)


 



 
T.B. Penick & Sons, Inc. (“Penick”)
seeks an order excluding Paseo Pasadena Hotel Investment, LLC (“Paseo”) from
introducing evidence of consequential damages. Specifically, Penick’s counsel
declares that Paseo has asserted $8 million in damages “citing an inability to
sell or otherwise benefit financially from [Paseo]’s ownership of the subject
property.” (8/16/2024 Golia Decl.,¶ 3.) 
Penick argues that the Prime Contract
includes a mutual waiver of consequential damages in Section 15.1.6. This
section states the following: 
§
15.1.6 Claims for Consequential Damages 
 
The
Contractor [Penick] and Owner [Paseo] waive Claims against each other for
consequential damages arising out of or relating to this Contract.  This mutual waiver
includes but is not limited to
 
1.
damages incurred by the Owner [Paseo] for rental expenses, for losses of use,
income, profit, financing, business and reputation, and for loss of management
or employee productivity or of the services of such persons; and 
 
2.
damages incurred by the Contractor [Penick] for principal office expenses
including the compensation of personnel stationed there, for losses of
financing, business and reputation, and for loss of profit except anticipated
profit arising directly from the Work. 
 
This
waiver is applicable, without limitation, to all consequential damages due to
either party’s termination in accordance with Article 14.  Nothing contained in
this Section 15.1.6 shall be deemed to preclude an award of liquidated damages,
when applicable, in accordance with the requirements of the Contract
Documents.”  (emphasis added).
 
In its supplemental brief, Paseo argues
that this waiver is limited to damages caused by “either party’s termination”
of the Contract. (10/10 Supp. Br., p. 3.) However, this reading ignores the first
sentence of this section which states that the waiver is for “consequential
damages arising out of or relating to [the] Contract.” The provision stating
that the waiver is also applicable to damages due to either party’s termination
of the Contract is an amplifier which enlarges the scope of the waiver. 
Paseo also argues that claims of
damages for financial loss including “the lost opportunity to refinance and/or
sell the property” are recoverable by right of indemnity and are the “direct
result of the harm caused by Penick’s invalid lien” on the property. (Opp., pp.
2-3.)  
Paseo cites to two sections within the
Prime Contract which purportedly obligate Penick to indemnify Paseo. The first,
section 3.18.1 of the Prime Contract, states:
To
the fullest extent permitted by law, the Contractor [Penick] shall indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the Owner [Paseo], Architect, Architect’s
consultants, and agents and employees or any of them from and against any and
all claims, debts, damages (including direct, liquidated, consequential,
incidental or other damages), judgments, awards, losses, liabilities, interest,
attorney fees, costs, and expenses of whatsoever kind or nature at any time,
including but not limited to attorneys’ fees, arising out of or resulting from
performance of the Work or any failure of Contractor to perform any of the
terms and conditions of this Contract or which in any manner directly or
indirectly caused or occasioned by or contributed to, or clamed to be caused or
occasioned by, or contributed to by any act, omission, fault or negligence,
whether active or passive of Contractor or anyone acting under its direction or
control, or on its behalf in connection with or incident to work, even though
the same may have result from the joint, concurring or contributory act,
omission or negligence, whether active or passive, of Owner or any other
person, unless the same be caused by the sole negligence or willful conduct of
Owner, or Owner’s agents, employees or independent contractors who are directly
responsible to Owner. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
same shall include injury or death to any person or persons, including agents
and employees of Owner and Contractor, and damage to any property of Owner and Contractor,
and shall extend to and include the Work under the Contract. Contractor will on
request and at its expense defend any action, suit, or proceeding arising
hereunder and shall reimburse and pay Owner for any loss, cost, damage or
expense (including legal fees) suffered by it hereunder. Such obligation shall
not be construed to negate, abridge or reduce other rights or obligations of
indemnity which would otherwise exist as to a party or person described in this
Section 3.18. 
 
The second provision, section 9.3.4 states,
in relevant part: 
Provided
that Contractor has been paid by Owner all sums (or the applicable portion
thereof) due to Contractor pursuant to the Contract . . ., Contractor shall not
suffer or permit any laborer’s, materialmen’s, mechanic’s, or other similar
liens to be filed or otherwise imposed on any part of the Work or the property
on which the Work is performed.
If any laborer’s, materialmen’s, mechanic’s, or other similar lien or claim thereof
is filed or otherwise imposed against the Property, then Contractor, within ten
(10) days of the filing of such lien or other imposition thereof, shall cause
such lien to be released or otherwise discharged. . . . [S]o long as Owner
is not in default with respect to payment of any amounts due to Contractor
hereunder, the Contractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Owner from
all claims, losses, demands, causes of action, or suits of whatever nature
arising out of any such lien or that part of the Work covered thereby. 
 
Paseo emphasizes that Section 3.18.1 and Section 9.3.4 require
Penick to indemnify Paseo for all consequential damages and that the financial
losses, including the loss of opportunities to sell or refinance the property,
are the result of Penick’s invalid mechanic’s lien. In Paseo’s supplemental
brief, Paseo argues that Section 9.3.4 entitles it to damages by right of
indemnity for all claims and losses related to liens (including consequential
damages) and should be applied as being more specific than the general consequential
damages waiver. 
Paseo’s reliance on these two sections
is unpersuasive for two reasons. First, there is no language in either of these
indemnity provisions indicating that they were intended to cover direct claims
between Paseo and Penick, in addition to third party claims. “Indemnification
agreements ordinarily relate to third party claims.” (Myers Building
Industries, Ltd. v. Interface Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949,
969, as modified on denial of reh'g (Mar. 26, 1993) [citing Varco-Pruden,
Inc. v. Hampshire Constr. Co. (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 654, 660.)  “But this general rule does not apply if the
parties to a contract use the term ‘indemnity’ to include direct liability as
well as third party liability.” (Dream Theater, Inc. v. Dream Theater
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 547, 555.) “An indemnity agreement is to be interpreted
according to the language and contents of the contract as well as the intention
of the parties as indicated by the contract.” (Myers Building, at p.
968.)
Section 15.1.1 defines a “Claim” as a
demand or assertion by one of the parties seeking, as a matter of right,
payment of money, extension of the Contract Time, or other relief with respect
to the terms of the Contract. The term “Claim” also includes other disputes and
matters in question between the Owner and Contractor arising out of or relating
to the Contract.” This definition shows that the indemnity provisions of
section 3.18.1 and 9.3.4 are limited to third party claims and adopting Paseo’s
expansive interpretation of the Prime Contract’s indemnity provisions would essentially
eviscerate Article 15, titled “Claims and Disputes.” Additionally, section
15.1.6’s waiver of consequential damages clearly bars Paseo from recovering its
claimed consequential damages from “lost opportunities to refinance or sell the
property” because the waiver specifically identifies “losses of use, income,
profit, [and] financing.”
Second, as Penick points out in its
response, Section 9.3.4 requires that Paseo have paid all sums before Penick is
responsible for indemnifying Paseo. Penick states it is undisputed that Paseo
did not even pay the full amount due under the GMP when the liens were
recorded. (10/10 Penick Supp. Brief, pp. 3-4.) Therefore, Penick was under no obligation
to indemnify Paseo for any alleged claims or losses arising from any mechanics
lien. 
Lastly, insofar as Paseo claims that
its consequential damages flow from any tort liability, the Court disagrees. Not
only is the recordation of a mechanics lien protected by the litigation
privilege, but Penick’s mechanics lien ultimately arises from a contractual
dispute between the parties over the price and completion of the project as
well as the payment of subcontractors and is therefore subject to the general
waiver of consequential damages. (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal
Co., Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 413.) In fact, it may well be that the Court
of Appeals will find that this Court was wrong in denying Penick’s motion for
summary adjudication on Paseo’s noncontractual claims. 
Based on the foregoing, Penick’s MIL #2
is GRANTED and the Court excludes evidence of Paseo’s “alleged financial loss
from its inability to sell or otherwise benefit financially from its ownership
of the subject property.” 