 Case Number:  23AHCV00640    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GERARDO MARTINEZ, JR., et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA, et al.,
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT CITY OF PASADENA’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   17, 2024



 
Defendant
City of Pasadena (“Defendant”) moves for an order dismissing this action filed
by plaintiffs Gerardo Martinez, Jr. and Leila Martinez (collectively,
“Plaintiff’). Defendant also moves for an order imposing $960 in sanctions.
This motion follows Plaintiffs’ failure to obey the Court’s order, issued on June
27, 2024, to serve responses to Defendant’s discovery responses (“June 27
Order”) and pay sanctions within 20 days. 
Where
a party fails to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) Before any sanctions may be imposed
the court must make an express finding that there has been a willful failure of
the party to serve the required answers. (Fairfield
v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) 
The Court notes that there is no notice
of ruling on file and that Plaintiffs did not appear at the hearing on June 27,
2024. Therefore, the Court cannot conclude that Plaintiffs were aware of the
Court’s June 27 Order and willfully failed to comply with their discovery
obligations. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is
DENIED without prejudice. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 17th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


     William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 