 Case Number:  22AHCV01111    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



OMAR TORRES ANGULO, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01111
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   17, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiffs Lizette Torres and Omar
Torress Angulo (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for an order awarding $51,346
in attorneys’ fees pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”).
Plaintiffs claim $47,346.00 in attorneys fees incurred in this litigation and
(2) an additional $4,000.00 for Plaintiffs’ counsel to review Defendant’s Opposition,
draft the Reply brief, and attend the hearing on this Motion. 
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1794(d),
“[i]f the buyer prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be
allowed by the court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the
aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees based on
actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred
by the buyer in connection with the commencement and prosecution of such
action.” “The lodestar method is applicable to calculating attorney fees under
section 1794, subdivision (d).” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 997.) As stated by the court in Goglin v. BMW of North
America, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 462:  
The statute requires the trial court to
make an initial determination of the actual time expended; and then to
ascertain whether under all the circumstances of the case the amount of actual
time expended and the monetary charge being made for the time expended are
reasonable. These circumstances may include, but are not limited to, factors
such as the complexity of the case and procedural demands, the skill exhibited
and the results achieved. If the time expended or the monetary charge being
made for the time expended are not reasonable under all the circumstances, then
the court must take this into account and award attorney fees in a lesser
amount. A prevailing buyer has the burden of ‘showing that the fees incurred
were “allowable,” were “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation,”
and were “reasonable in amount.”   
 
(Goglin, supra at p. 470
[quoting Nightingale v. Hyundai Motor America (1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 99,
103.) “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the discretion of the
trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such factors as the
nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the experience and expertise
of counsel and the amount of time involved. The court may also consider whether
the amount requested is based upon unnecessary or duplicative work.”  (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) “The basis for the trial court's calculation must be the
actual hours counsel has devoted to the case, less those that result from
inefficient or duplicative use of time.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of
California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 395.) “In
challenging attorney fees as excessive because too many hours of work are
claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to point to the specific
items challenged, with a sufficient argument and citations to the evidence.
General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do
not suffice.” (Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc. v. California Ins.
Guarantee Assn. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.) 
Plaintiffs’ contend that the requested
award is reasonable because Plaintiffs’ fee recovery is based on the 113.46
hours spent litigating the matter. Plaintiffs’ attorneys bill at rates ranging
from $475 to $515 while the paralegals have an hourly rate of $200 to $210. Plaintiff’s
counsel states that the time and effort spent on this case were necessitated by
Defendant’s denial of liability and Defendant’s decision to extensively
litigate the matter over a year and a half. (Motion, pp. 10-11.) Defendant only
agreed to pay the full measure of restitution and a civil penalty multiplier on
March 15, 2024, which was the day after the final status conference. (Supp. Liu
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)
Defendant does not oppose the hourly
rates claimed by Plaintiff’s counsel and its paralegals but argues that the
time spent on this matter is excessive and unreasonable. Defendant identifies
various categories of entries which it claims have been padded. The Court
addresses each in turn. 
First, Defendant argues that paralegals
spent 19.36 hours on ministerial and clerical tasks which should not be
recoverable as attorneys’ fees. However, Defendant does not identify specific
time entries besides 2.9 hours billed by Richard Ruiz for finalizing a
deposition subpoena and serving documents and 0.8 for calendaring depositions. Of
these two, only calendaring depositions are truly clerical or ministerial. Accordingly,
the Court only grants a reduction of $168, consisting of 0.8 hours at an hourly
rate of $210. 
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
counsel’s entries relating to routine communications are facially excessive and
the cumulative time for routine communications sent should be reduced by 50%
from 10 hours to 5 hours. Defendant provides two examples of entries in which
Plaintiffs’ counsel billed 0.1 hours drafting and sending emails to defense
counsel. The amount of time spent on such “routine” communications appears
reasonable. Therefore, the request to reduce the time spent on these
communications is denied. 
Third, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ attorneys billed 3 hours worth of entries which were too vague and
redacted to assess their reasonableness, which include calling and
communicating with clients. This general challenge is unpersuasive given that
attorney-client communications are privileged and necessary. 
Fourth, Defendant requests that the fee
award be reduced by $420 (about 2 hours) to account for overstaffing and
duplicative work. As the sole example, Defendant argues that Mr. Ruiz, the
paralegal, billed 0.6 hours on a motion for sanctions while Plaintiff’s
attorney, Joseph Liu, also billed 5.64 hours for preparing the same motion.
(Opp., p. 6.) This complaint lacks merit because there is nothing wrong with
two timekeepers working on the same motion, and Mr. Liu likely kept the fee
amount low by recruiting Mr. Ruiz’s assistance at a lower billing rate. 
Fifth, Defendant complains that Mr. Liu
billed for 2 hours of administrative work at attorney rates. Defendant cites to
Mr. Liu’s billing entry for 0.35 hours to draft and serve a supplemental
document production, arguing that serving documents is a clerical task. This
entry does not reflect work that is “purely administrative or clerical” because
it involves drafting discovery responses and producing documents. Also, in
their reply brief, Plaintiffs argue that their attorney, Mr. Liu, has already
audited his time entries to exclude any truly administrative tasks. 
Sixth, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ attorneys use templates for drafting discovery requests, meet and
confer correspondence, discovery motions and this fee motion, motions in
limine, and trial documents. Even if Plaintiffs’ counsel uses forms or templates,
customizing them and ensuring that they are appropriate for a particular case
still requires time and the stated amount of time spent by Plaintiffs’ counsel
is reasonable. Defendant’s proposed reductions are therefore rejected. 
Seventh, Defendant objects to the 1.04
hours spent by Plaintiffs’ counsel reviewing service records and drafting a
repair chronology. This is not an unreasonable amount of time to spend on this
task. 
          Last,
Plaintiffs’ counsel requests an additional $4,000 for anticipated time spent to
review Defendant’s opposition brief, prepare a reply brief, and attend the
hearing. Mr. Liu declares in his supplemental declaration filed on October 9,
2024, that he spent 1.04 hours reviewing the opposition, 4.2 hours drafting the
reply brief, .61 hours incorporating final revisions. The amount of time spent
on these tasks is reasonable given the length of Defendant’s opposition brief.
Accordingly, the Court awards $2,866.50 instead of the requested $4,000 based
on the additional time actually expended. 
          In total, the
Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion and awards fees in the amount of $50,044.50, which
consists of a base lodestar of $47,346, a reduction of $168 per Defendant’s
opposition brief, and an additional $2,866.50 for the briefing related to this
motion.
Dated
this 17th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 