  Case Number:  24STCV03957    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
REV CAPITAL (CALIFORNIA) INC., 


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
24STCV03957




 
vs.
 
 
ALO, LLC, et al.,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON APPLICATIONS FOR RIGHT TO
  ATTACH ORDER RE: (1) ALO, LLC AND (2) BELLA + CANVAS, LLC
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Plaintiff REV Capital
(California) Inc. moves for a right to attach order against defendant ALO, LLC
in the amount of $97,110.86 and defendant Bella + Canvas, LLC in the amount of
$2,576,853.51.
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            Plaintiff REV Capital (California)
Inc. (“REV”) is a financial services company known as a “Factor,” which
purchases “Accounts” from businesses for a percentage of the value of the
Accounts. (Shifrin Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10.) As defined in the Uniform Commercial Code
(“UCC”), codified in the California Commercial Code, and as pertinent to this
action, an “Account” is a “right to payment of a monetary obligation, whether
or not earned by performance… for services rendered or to be rendered.” (Com.
Code § 9102(a)(2)(ii).) A Factor purchases Accounts from the “Factoring
Client.” (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 9.) Persons who owe payments on the Accounts to the
Factoring Client are known as “Account Debtors.” (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 9; see also
Com. Code § 9102(a)(3) [defining “Account debtor” as “a person obligated on an
account”].)  
 
            On June 23, 2022, defendant Bella +
Canvas, LLC (“Bella”) and non-party BaronHR West, Inc. (“Baron”) entered into a
Staffing Agreement, whereby Baron agreed to provide staffing services and Bella
agreed to pay for such services. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 14 & Ex. A at §§ 3,
5(A-C).) 
 
            On October 13, 2023, REV purchased
and was assigned the interest of Amerisource Funding, Inc. (“Amerisource”) in
various Accounts Receivable Assignment and Financing Agreements, under which
Amerisource had the right to collect on Baron’s Accounts. (Shifrin Decl. ¶¶ 17,
18.) Also on October 11, 2023, REV and Baron entered into a Factoring and
Security Agreement (“FSA”), whereby REV purchased Baron’s Accounts. (Shifrin Reply
Decl. ¶ 21 & Ex. B at §§ 1.35, 2.1.2, 2.1.4.) 
 
Under
the FSA, Baron granted REV a first priority security interest in the “Collateral.”
(Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 21 & Ex. B at § 8.1.) “Collateral” is defined in the
FSA to include Baron’s Accounts. (Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 21 & Ex. B at §
1.9.) Baron irrevocably authorized REV to “[r]eceive, take, endorse, assign,
deliver, accept and deposit, in the name of Purchaser or Seller, proceeds of
any Collateral.” (Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 21 & Ex. B at § 10.1.1.) Baron also
irrevocably authorized REV to notify any Account Debtor “obligated with respect
to any Account, that the underlying Account has been assigned to [REV] by [Baron]
and that payment thereof is to be made to the order of and directly and solely
to [REV].” (Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 21 & Ex. B at §§ 1.32 [defining
Payer as Account Debtor], 10.1.6.) REV’s security interests in Baron’s
Collateral were perfected by the filing of UCC-1 Financing Statements and UCC-3
Financing Statement Amendments with the California Secretary of State. (Shifrin
Decl. ¶¶ 19, 20, 23; Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. G.) 
 
On
October 16, 2023, Baron sent to its customers a Notice of Assignment. (Shifrin
Decl. ¶ 24.) The notice stated as follows: 
 
We
are pleased to inform you that our company (the “Vendor”) has assigned our
Accounts Receivable to Baron Finance California Inc. d/b/a REV Capital in
accordance with Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code…. Effective
immediately all payments due to Vendor are to be made payable and remitted
directly to:
 
REV
CAPITAL
P.O.
BOX 741791
Los
Angeles, CA 90074-1791 USA
Email:
billing@revinc.com
 
Please
record the receipt of this Notice of Assignment and Direction of Payment in
your Accounts Payable office. The undersigned hereby irrevocably directs and authorizes
you to make all payments on Accounts Receivable owed to Vendor payable to REV
Capital or to whomever REV Capital may so direct….
 
Please
acknowledge the receipt of this Notification by completing the assignment and
returning a copy by email to the attention of REV Capital, copied herein.
 
(Shifrin
Decl. ¶¶ 25, 26, 29 & Ex. C.) 
          Susan Luthcke, accounts payable manager, signed and
returned the Notice of Assignment to REV. (Shifrin Decl. ¶¶ 29, 30 & Ex.
C.) REV contends that Luthcke is the accounts payable manager of both defendants
ALO and Bella. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 28.) After Luthcke signed and returned the
Notice of Assignment, both ALO and Bella made payments to REV. (Shrifin Decl. ¶
30.) After these payments, an entity named Dynasty Capital (“Dynasty”), which
provided merchant cash advances to Baron, demanded that defendants send
payments to Dynasty instead of Baron. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 31.) On November 30,
2023, counsel for Baron advised defendants that Dynasty’s instructions were
erroneous and instructed defendants to make payments to Baron. (Shifrin Decl. ¶
32 & Ex. D.) 
 
            From December 1 to December 20,
2023, ALO made three payments totaling $69,905.04 to Baron, and Bella made four
payments totaling $2,472,209.52 to Baron. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 34 & Ex. E.) Defendants
have refused to pay REV these amounts defendants had instead paid to Baron.
(Shifrin Decl. ¶ 35.)
 
II.      Applicable Law
 
            “Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the
action is brought.” (CCP § 484.010.) 
 
The application shall be executed under oath and
must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure
the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement
of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the
action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. § 101, et
seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the writ
of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that
such property is subject to attachment. (CCP § 484.020.)
 
            The
application for a writ of attachment must be supported “by an affidavit showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (CCP § 484.030.) 
 
The Court shall consider the showing made by the
parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record. (CCP §
484.090(a), (d).) The Court shall issue a right to attach order if it finds all
of the following:
 
(1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is
one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 
(2) The plaintiff has established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.
 
(CCP § 484.090(a)(1-4).) “The Attachment Law
statutes are subject to strict construction….” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)
 
III.     Analysis
 
1.           
Evidentiary Matters
 
Defendants’
requests to take judicial notice of Exhibits 1 to 5 are GRANTED, pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(d). REV’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of
Delfino Barragan are OVERRULED.
 
2.           
Basis of Attachment
 
“[A]n
attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each
of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount
of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s
fees.”  (CCP § 483.010(a).)  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
which is secured by any interest in real property arising from agreement
….”  (CCP § 483.010(b).)  
 
            REV’s
claims against defendants are based on the claims that defendants owe Baron
under the Staffing Agreements.  REV has presented
the Staffing Agreement between Baron and Bella. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 14 & Ex. A
[Staffing Agreement between Baron and Bella].) As for ALO, although REV did not
present a written Staffing Agreement between Baron and ALO, ALO concedes the
existence of such an agreement. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 3 [“Baron West entered into
written staffing agreements to provide Defendants with staff to perform various
tasks at Defendants’ warehouse….”].) Further, ALO made payments to BaronHR West
for staffing. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 34 & Ex. E.) As discussed further
below, pursuant to Commercial Code § 9406(a) and the Notice of Agreement signed
by the undisputed Accounts Payable manager of both defendants, REV was assigned
the right to collect on payments that both defendants owe Baron. 
 
            Defendants
argue that REV’s claim is not based on any contract between itself and
defendants. (Opp. at 5:28-6:1.)  That is
true, but CCP § 483.010(a) does not necessarily require the plaintiff to be the
party to a contract. The statute only requires that plaintiff’s claim is based
on a contract that is express or implied. As stated above, REV’s claims against
defendants ALO and Bella are based on amounts that defendants owe to Baron
under written Staffing Agreements. (FAC ¶¶ 16-18, 35, 37, 39, 45, 47, 49; Barragan
Decl. ¶ 3.)  That is sufficient. 
 
Accordingly,
REV demonstrates a valid basis for attachment pursuant to the Staffing
Agreements. 
 
3.           
Probable Validity of Plaintiff’s Claims
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more
likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant
on that claim.” (CCP § 481.190.) “If the defendant opposes the
application, ‘the court must then consider the relative merits of the positions
of the respective parties and make a determination of the probable outcome of
the litigation.’ [Citations.]” (Pech v. Morgan (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
841, 855.)
 
Under
the FSA between Baron and REV, REV purchased Baron’s accounts. (Shifrin Reply Decl.
¶ 6 & Ex. F at §§ 2.1.1, 2.1.4.) The FSA allows REV to bring any actions to
collect on any Account that REV purchased. (Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. F
at § 10.1.2.) “Once a claim has been assigned, the assignee is the owner and
has the right to sue on it.” (Johnson v. County of Fresno (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1087, 1096.) Accordingly, as assignee of Baron’s Accounts, REV has
the right to enforce payments owed on those Accounts. 
 
In
addition, the FSA also granted REV a continuing first priority security
interest in Baron’s Accounts. (Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. F at §§ 1.9,
8.1.) REV’s security interest was perfected through the filing of financing
statements with the California Secretary of State. (Shifrin Reply Decl. ¶ 7
& Ex. G; Com. Code § 9310(a).) Under Commercial Code § 9607(a)(3), “[i]f so
agreed, and in any event after default,” a secured party may “[e]nforce the
obligations of an account debtor….” (Com. Code § 9607(a)(3).) Further, under
Commercial Code § 1305(b): “Any right or obligation declared by this code is
enforceable by action unless the provision declaring it specifies a different
and limited effect.” 
 
REV’s
entitlement to collect on Baron’s Accounts (including the Accounts of
defendants) is based on Commercial Code § 9406(a), which states, in relevant
part: 
 
[A]n
account debtor on an account…may discharge its obligation by paying the
assignor until, but not after, the account debtor receives a notification,
signed by the assignor or the assignee, that the amount due or to become due
has been assigned and that payment is to be made to the assignee. After receipt
of the notification, the account debtor may discharge its obligation by paying
the assignee and may not discharge the obligation by paying the assignor.
 
It is undisputed that, by October 18,
2023, defendants received a Notice of Assignment, signed by Baron as assignor
and stating that Baron’s Accounts were assigned to REV and that payments should
be remitted directly to REV as assignee. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 29 & Ex. C.) 
 
Despite
having been notified that payment on Baron’s Accounts were to be remitted to
REV instead of Baron, defendants made seven payments to Baron instead of REV from
December 1, 2023, to December 20, 2023. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 34.) Specifically, as
evidenced by bank statements reflecting wire transfers, ALO made three payments
totaling $69,905.04 to Baron, and Bella made four payments totaling $2,472,209.52
to Baron. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 34 & Ex. E.) 
 
To
begin with, the amount sought to be attached is based on the so-called
“misdirected” payments to Baron in December 2023, which is a fixed amount as required
by CCP § 483.010(b).  Further, pursuant
to Commercial Code §§ 9406(a), 9607(a)(3) and 1305(b), REV has the right, as a
secured party under the FSA, to bring a suit against defendants to recover such
misdirected payments.
 
Defendants
argue in the opposition that REV has not demonstrated that it is a secured
party. As discussed above with respect to the terms of the FSA between Baron
and REV and the perfecting of the security interest, REV has demonstrated that
it is a secured party.[1] 
 
Defendants
also argue that the FSA was for financing and not for a sale of accounts; thus,
according to defendants, REV has failed to show that any amounts are owed to
REV pursuant to the FSA.  The terms of
the FSA belie this contention.  The FSA
states: “Notwithstanding
the creation of this security interest, the relationship of the Parties shall be
that of Purchaser and Seller of accounts, and not that of lender and borrower.”
(Shifrin Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. F at § 8.2.) The FSA also provides that the “relationship
of the Parties is that of Purchaser and Seller. All transactions under this Agreement
are account purchase transactions.” (Shifrin Supp. Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. F at § 26.)
Under the FSA, “Seller [i.e., Baron] does not retain any legal or equitable
interest in any Purchased Account sold under this Agreement.” (Shifrin Supp. Decl.
¶ 6 & Ex. F at § 26.) Even if certain language in the FSA references the
fact that REV was given the option to purchase Accounts (Shifrin Supp. Decl. ¶
6 & Ex. F at § 2.1.2 [“Purchaser may, but shall not be required to,
purchase from Seller such Accounts as Purchaser determines to be Eligible
Accounts”]), defendants acknowledged that REV, in fact, purchased their
Accounts by making payments to REV after having signed the Notice of
Assignment. (Shifrin Decl. ¶¶ 29, 30 & Ex. C.) Consequently, REV is not a
lender. Rather, REV is the assignee of Baron’s Accounts and is entitled to
collect on payments owed to Baron. 
 
For the
foregoing reasons, REV demonstrates the probable validity of
its claims against defendants ALO and Bella. 
 
4.           
Purpose and Amount of Attachment

 
The
other required findings under CCP § 484.090 are that the “attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based” and that the “amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.” (CCP § 484.090(a)(3), (a)(4).) 
 
REV
declares that “[a]ttachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery
on a claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Apps. ¶ 4.) REV also demonstrates
that the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero. (Apps. ¶
8; see also Shifrin Decl. ¶ 36.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that the amount to be secured by attachment should be reduced because they
had to pay staffing companies other than Baron to remedy Baron’s failure to pay
temporary staff that it provided. (Barragan Decl. ¶¶ 5-8.) The amount to be
secured by an attachment shall be reduced by the “amount of any claim of the
defendant asserted as a defense in the answer pursuant to Section 431.70 if
the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued had
an action been brought on the claim when it was not barred by the statute of
limitations.” (CCP § 483.015(b)(3).) 
 
            Defendants asserted an affirmative
defense of recoupment based on Baron’s breach under the Staffing Agreements. (See
Answer, First Affirmative Defense.) Under the Staffing Agreements between
Baron and defendants, Baron assumed full responsibility for paying temporary
employees. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 14 & Ex. A at § 3(F).) Baron agreed to
indemnify defendants for any breach of any obligation Baron has in the Staffing
Agreements. (Shifrin Decl. ¶ 14 & Ex. A at § 9(b).) Baron failed to pay the
temporary employees that it provided to defendants. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 4.) As a
result, defendants were forced to contract with two different staffing
companies to remedy Baron’s breach of the Staffing Agreement. (Barragan Decl.
¶¶ 6, 7.) Defendants claim they paid a total of $426,749.63 to such staffing
companies. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Based
on the foregoing, defendants demonstrate a claim upon which an attachment could
be issued. Under Commercial Code § 9404(a)(2), REV’s rights as an assignee are
subject to “[a]ll terms of the agreement between the account debtor and
assignor and any defense or claim in recoupment arising from the transaction
that gave rise to the contract.” Because defendants have a claim of
indemnification against Baron, the assignor, under the Staffing Agreements, REV
is equally subject to such claim as the assignee. 
 
REV
argues that the amount of attachment should not be reduced because, by making
the payments evidenced by the wire transfers, defendants admit to having
received the staffing for which it paid. Even if this contention were true,
Commercial Code § 9404(a)(2) does not expressly prohibit recoupment where, as
here, the basis for recoupment (i.e., Baron’s failure to pay staff) occurred
after the basis for attachment arose (i.e., defendants misdirected payments
to Baron instead of REV).   According to
the express provisions of the Corporations Code, all that is required for
recoupment is that the basis for recoupment arise from the same transaction or
contract. Here, both the misdirected payments to Baron and defendants’ claim
for indemnification against Baron arise from the Staffing Agreements between
defendants and Baron. 
 
REV
also objects to the declaration of Delfino Barragan, defendants’ Warehouse
Operations and Safety Manager, which defendants rely upon as the basis for
recoupment. REV contends that the declaration does not establish Barragan’s
personal knowledge regarding the basis for defendants’ recoupment. The Court
disagrees. Barragan avers that he is responsible for compliance with all
company policies and procedures and human resources duties. (Barragan Decl. ¶
2.) Barragan’s averment adequately forms the basis for his averment that
defendants had to enter into agreements with other staffing companies to remedy
Baron’s failure to pay staff, as required under defendants’ Staffing Agreements
with Baron.  
 
Despite
defendants’ potential entitlement to recoupment, the amount by which the
attachments should be reduced is not altogether clear. Delfino states that
defendants paid staffing company iStaffing $336,450.42 to pay the labor costs
that Baron failed to pay. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendants do not state how the
payment to iStaffing should be allocated between ALO and Bella. Accordingly,
the Court declines to reduce the attachment for either defendant by the amount
paid to iStaffing. 
 
Delfino
further states that Bella paid $90,299.21 to staffing company Partners
Personnel for labor costs that Baron failed to pay. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 8.) Pursuant
to CCP § 483.015(b)(3), Bella is entitled to a reduction of $90,299.21. 
 
            With
respect to the amounts to be attached, the Court further notes that defendants
do not dispute the asserted calculations for interest. With respect to estimated
attorney fees and costs, REV seeks to attach $20,000 in fees and $5,000 in
costs against each defendant. (See Shifrin Decl. ¶ 38.) For what is
essentially a straightforward contract-based case, these amounts are
unreasonable. The Court will reduce asserted fees and costs for each defendant
by half. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that REV is entitled to attachment against
ALO, LLC in the amount of $84,610.86 ($97,110.86 requested - $2,500 costs
- $20,000 fees).  The Court further finds
that REV is entitled to attachment against Bella + Canvas, LLC in the amount of
$2,474,054.30 ($2,576,853.31 requested - $2,500 costs - $10,000 fees -
$90,299.21 payment to Partners Personnel). 
 
5.           
Bankruptcy
 
CCP § 484.020(d) requires a “statement
that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged in
a proceeding under Title 11 of the United States Code (Bankruptcy) or that the
prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under Title 11 of the
United States Code (Bankruptcy).” REV provides this statement. (Apps. ¶ 5.) 
 
Defendants argue that Baron has filed for
bankruptcy. (RJN Exs. 1, 2.) However, REV’s claim is not against Baron, but against
defendants. Defendants do not explain how Baron’s bankruptcy stay is applicable
to them, even if REV seeks to enforce the Staffing Agreements made between
Baron and defendants.
 
6.           
Property Subject to Attachment
 
CCP
§ 487.010(a) states that, where the defendant is a corporation, all corporate
property for which a method of levy is provided in CCP § 488.300 et seq.
is subject to attachment. REV moves to attach any property of defendants. 
 
7.           
Exemptions
 
No
claim of exemption was filed. 
 
8.           
Undertaking 
 
CCP
§ 489.210 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before issuance of a
writ of attachment. CCP § 489.220 provides, with exceptions, for an undertaking
in the amount of $10,000. REV does not discuss the proper amount of
undertaking. The Court will order an undertaking in the amount of $10,000 for
each defendant. 
 
IV.     Conclusion
 
The application against ALO, LLC is GRANTED IN PART
in the amount of $84,610.86. The
application against Bella + Canvas, LLC is GRANTED IN PART in the amount of $2,474,054.30.
Before any writ will issue, plaintiff REV Capital (California) Inc. shall
post an undertaking in the amount of $10,000 for each defendant.  The Court will sign the Proposed Right to
Attach Orders, electronically received April 24, 2024, with adjustments to the
amounts to be attached in accordance herewith.


