  Case Number:  24NNCV00267    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING  CROSS-DEFENDANT FIRST AMERICAN TITLE COMPANY DEMURRER TO THE FACC WITHOUT LEAVE  TO AMEND and DENYING MOTION TO STRIKE I.         INTRODUCTION             This action  arises out of a dispute regarding the sale of real property located at 12138  Valley Boulevard, El Monte, California ("Subject Property"). On or about October 3, 2020,  Cross-Complainant W&B Investment Group, LLC (“W&B”) entered into a  Purchase Agreement with Cross-Defendant To Van Luu (“Luu”) for the sale of two  parcels of vacant land comprising the Subject Property. Cross-Complainant  Vincent Hung Shing Hui (“Hui”) is the sole owner and member of W&B.  Subsequently, Luu assigned her rights and obligations under the Purchase  Agreement to Cross-Defendants Milano Realty, LLC, and Cam Vinh Luu (“Cam”)  (collectively, “Milano”) The transaction was facilitated by  Cross-Defendants Premier Escrow Services, Inc. (“Premier”) and First American  Title Company (“FATCO”), On July 31, 2024, W&B and Hui  filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Luu, Milano, Premier,  and FATCO asserting the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)  Negligence, (3) Fraud, (4) Rescission of Transaction, and (5) Indemnification. Subsequently:  On       August 27, 2024, Luu filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       September 4, 2024, FATCO filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       October 1, 2024, Milano filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       November 12, 2024, W&B and Hui filed oppositions to the demurrers       filed by Luu, FATCO, and Milano. On       November 18, 2024, Luu, FATCO, and Milano each filed replies to the       oppositions.  Before the Court is the demurrer  with a motion to strike filed by FATCO as to W&B and Hui’s First Amended  Cross-Complaint. Meet and Confer Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and  confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the  responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video  conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.  Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing  the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to  meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer  or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.  (a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) In this case, counsel for the  parties met and conferred via Zoom on August 13, 2024, for approximately 30  minutes to discuss the demurrer. (Katz Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds that the  meet-and-confer requirement has been satisfied.   II.        LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer tests the legal  sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”  they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be  accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224  Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.)  Pleadings are to be broadly  construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the  facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart  Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivision (f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers  for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible  a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,  Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  III.      ANALYSIS Demurrer FATCO demurs to the entire FACC and specifically to the second and fifth  causes of action Misjoinder of  Vincent Hui Code of Civil Procedure section 378 provides that all persons may be  joined in one action as plaintiffs if “[t]hey assert any right to relief  jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the  same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if  any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the  action; or [t]hey have a claim, right, or interest adverse to the defendant in  the property or controversy which is the subject of the action.” Id., §  378(a). Thus, “[t]here may be permissive joinder of parties plaintiff under  section 378 in two situations: (1) Where there exists both a common  interest in the subject of the action and any question of law or fact  common to all the plaintiffs [citation], and (2) where there exists both  a right to relief arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions  and any common question of law or fact [citation].” Coleman v. Twin Coast  Newspaper, Inc. (1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 650, 653.  FATCO argues that Hui is improperly joined as a party to the  cross-complaint, asserting that Hui has no standing to assert claims in his  individual capacity. FATCO highlights that Hui is not a direct party to the  Purchase Agreement or any other contract referenced in the FACC, which  explicitly involves W&B Investment Group, LLC. FATCO further contends that  Hui’s name appears in the FACC solely in the context of his role as W&B’s  owner, with no allegations of distinct harm or personal obligations. (Demurrer,  p. 10; Reply, p. 6¿) The FACC alleges that Hui, as the sole owner of W&B, suffered damages  resulting from the defective title and subsequent legal disputes. (FACC, ¶¶ 49,  59.) However, it fails to articulate how Hui’s purported damages differ from  those alleged by W&B or how his personal claims arise out of the same  transaction or series of transactions described in the FACC. The Court finds that The FACC does not plead facts demonstrating that  Hui’s personal interests align with W&B’s in a way that creates a common  interest under section 378(a). The FACC does not allege any unique legal or  factual questions specific to Hui that would warrant his inclusion as a party  separate from W&B.   The Court finds that Hui’s inclusion as a cross-complainant constitutes  improper joinder under Code of Civil Procedure section 378. The demurrer on  grounds of misjoinder is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   Second cause of  action: Negligence – statute of limitations To bar a claim on demurrer due to the statute of limitations, “the defect  must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not  enough that the complaint shows that the action may be barred.” (Committee  for Green Foothills v. Santa Clara County Bd. of Supervisors (2010) 48  Cal.4th 32, 42 [internal quotation marks omitted].) A statute of limitations  begins to run “when the cause of action is complete with all of its elements,”  including wrongdoing, causation, and resulting harm. (Norgart v. Upjohn Co.  (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397.) While the discovery rule may delay accrual, it only applies until the  plaintiff has, or reasonably should have, inquiry notice of the cause of  action. (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807; Nelson  v. Indevus Pharms., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1206.) To invoke the  discovery rule, plaintiffs must specifically plead facts showing: (1) the time  and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery  despite reasonable diligence. Conclusory allegations are insufficient to  withstand demurrer. (McKelvey v. Boeing N. Am. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th  151, 160, superseded by statute on unrelated grounds as stated in Grisham v.  Philip Morris U.S.A., Inc. (2007) 40 Cal.4th 623, 637.) FATCO argues that the two-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil  Procedure section 339 applies to professional negligence claims. The FACC  concedes that W&B discovered the title defect in early 2021. FATCO contends  this discovery occurred more than two years before the filing of the  cross-complaint in May 2024. (Demurrer, p. 8; FACC, ¶ 29.) In opposition, W&B and Hui assert that equitable tolling applies,  arguing they did not suffer damages until March 2024, when Milano Realty  initiated legal action against them. (Opposition, p. 9.) However, W&B fails  to cite any authority supporting their equitable tolling argument. The Court agrees with FATCO that the two-year statute of limitations bars  this claim. The FACC alleges that W&B and Hui discovered the title defect  in early 2021 when they learned the Grant Deed failed to include one of the  parcels. (FACC, ¶ 29.) The cross-complaint against FATCO was not filed until  May 2024, more than three years later. A cause of action accrues when the  plaintiff has notice of the harm and its cause. (Norgart v. Upjohn Co.  (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397.) Absent specific allegations establishing equitable  tolling or delayed discovery, the claim is time-barred under Code of Civil  Procedure section 339. The Court SUSTAINS FATCO’s demurrer to this cause of action without leave  to amend.    Fifth cause of  action: Indemnification “The right to indemnity flows from payment of a joint legal obligation on  another’s behalf.” (Expressions at Rancho Niguel Association v. Ahmanson Developments,  Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139.) “The elements of a cause of action  for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor  and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is  contractually or equitably responsible.” (Id. (emphasis in  original).)   The FACC alleges  that FATCO is obligated to indemnify W&B and Hui for damages resulting from  the title defect under principles of equitable and implied indemnity. (FACC, ¶¶  85-88.) FATCO demurs to the FACC arguing that indemnification claims cannot  survive if the underlying claim fails. Because the negligence claim is  time-barred and FATCO did not cause the harm alleged, there is no basis for  indemnity. (Demurrer, p. 9; Reply, p. 5.) FATCO further argues that there is no express or implied contractual  obligation to indemnify W&B and Hui, as the title insurance policy was  issued to the buyer, Milano, and not the seller. (Demurrer, p. 10; FACC,  Exhibit A.) The Court agrees that the indemnification claim fails. A claim for  equitable or implied indemnity requires an underlying liability, which is  absent here because the negligence claim is defective. Additionally, the FACC  does not allege any contractual basis for indemnity between FATCO and W&B  and Hui. The demurrer to the indemnification cause of action is sustained  without leave to amend.   The Court SUSTAINS FATCO’s demurrer to this cause of action without leave  to amend.  Motion to strike The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon  terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also  strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with  the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., §  436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has  irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in  conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must  appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. §  437.) Given that the Court has sustained the demurrer to the FACC without leave  to amend, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as MOOT.   IV.       ORDER             The Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer of the FACC as to the second and fifth claim against  FATCO without leave to amend.             FATCO’s  motion to strike is denied as MOOT.              FATCO is to  give notice.              Dated: November 25, 2024                              JARED D. MOSES              JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING CROSS-DEFENDANT  LUU’S DEMURRER TO THE FACC WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMENDI.         INTRODUCTION            This action  arises out of a dispute regarding the sale of real property located at 12138  Valley Boulevard, El Monte, California ("Subject Property").On or about October 3, 2020,  Cross-Complainant W&B Investment Group, LLC (“W&B”) entered into a  Purchase Agreement with Cross-Defendant To Van Luu (“Luu”) for the sale of two  parcels of vacant land comprising the Subject Property. Cross-Complainant  Vincent Hung Shing Hui (“Hui”) is the sole owner and member of W&B.  Subsequently, Luu assigned her rights and obligations under the Purchase  Agreement to Cross-Defendants Milano Realty, LLC, and Cam Vinh Luu (“Cam”)  (collectively, “Milano”)The transaction was facilitated by  Cross-Defendants Premier Escrow Services, Inc. (“Premier”) and First American  Title Company (“FATCO”),On July 31, 2024, W&B and Hui  filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Luu, Milano, Premier,  and FATCO asserting the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)  Negligence, (3) Fraud, (4) Rescission of Transaction, and (5) Indemnification.Subsequently: On       August 27, 2024, To Van Luu filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       September 4, 2024, FATCO filed a demurrer to the FACC. On October       1, 2024, Milano filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       November 12, 2024, W&B and Hui filed oppositions to the demurrers       filed by Luu, FATCO, and Milano. On       November 18, 2024, Luu, FATCO, and Milano each filed replies to the       oppositions. Before the Court is the demurrer  filed by To Van Luu as to W&B and Hui’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.Meet and ConferPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and  confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the  responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video  conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.  Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing  the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to  meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer  or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.  (a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)Here, on August 14, 2024, the  parties met and conferred by telephone and correspondence to address the  defects in the First Amended Cross-Complaint. (Declaration of Mary Sun, ¶ 14.)  The Court finds that the meet-and-confer requirement has been satisfied. II.        LEGAL STANDARDA demurrer tests the legal  sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”  they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be  accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224  Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) Pleadings are to be broadly  construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the  facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart  Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivision (f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers  for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible  a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,  Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) III.      ANALYSISLuu demurs to the first and fifth causes of action in the FACC for  failure to state sufficient facts to constitute an action against Luu.  Additionally, Luu maintains that there is a defect or misjoinder of parties.  Misjoinder of  Vincent HuiLuu challenges the standing of Vincent Hui, arguing that Hui is not a  real party in interest and was improperly joined in the First Amended  Cross-Complaint. The FACC identifies W&B Investment Group LLC  ("W&B") as the seller of the Subject Property. (FACC, ¶ 19.) Hui,  as the manager of W&B, signed the defective Grant Deed solely in his  representative capacity.CCP section 367 provides that “[e]very action must be prosecuted in the  name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 367.) Code of Civil Procedure section 378 provides that all  persons may be joined in one action as plaintiffs if “[t]hey assert any right  to relief jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising  out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or  occurrences and if any question of law or fact common to all these persons will  arise in the action; or [t]hey have a claim, right, or interest adverse to the  defendant in the property or controversy which is the subject of the action.”  Id., § 378(a). Thus, “[t]here may be permissive joinder of parties plaintiff  under section 378 in two situations: (1) Where there exists both a  common interest in the subject of the action and any question of law or  fact common to all the plaintiffs [citation], and (2) where there exists both  a right to relief arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions  and any common question of law or fact [citation].” Coleman v. Twin Coast  Newspaper, Inc. (1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 650, 653. The FACC does not allege any independent harm to Hui, nor does it  establish that Hui has rights separate from W&B with respect to the Subject  Property or the alleged breaches.An individual acting  in a representative capacity for an LLC generally cannot acquire standing to  sue in their individual capacity unless they can demonstrate personal injury  distinct from any injury to the LLC (see Schrage v. Schrage (2021) 69  Cal.App.5th 126, 153). Here, the FACC alleges no such independent harm to Hui. All claims  related to the alleged defects in the Grant Deed, breaches of the Purchase  Agreement, and related indemnification obligations belong solely to W&B as  the contracting party. Accordingly, the Court finds that Hui lacks standing as an individual to  maintain claims against Luu. The demurrer as to Vincent Hui should be sustained  without leave to amend, as no facts indicate that Hui has standing separate  from W&B to assert these claims. First cause of  action: Breach of contract“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the  contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street  Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,  1178.) Luu, in her demurrer, argues that the obligations alleged in the FACC  improperly impose post-closing duties upon the assignor, which are not  supported by the Purchase Agreement. Luu contends that the Purchase Agreement  does not obligate the buyer or assignor to guarantee the accuracy of the Grant  Deed or to undertake corrective actions for defects discovered after escrow has  closed. (Demurrer, p. 3.) Furthermore, W&B and Hui’s admission that escrow  successfully closed undermines its assertion that Luu breached the agreement.  (FACC, ¶ 27.)The FACC alleges that Luu breached the Purchase Agreement by failing to  fulfill obligations related to the conveyance of the Subject Property. Despite  assigning her interests in the Purchase Agreement to Milano and Cam, the  assignment agreement expressly states that the assignor, Luu, "is NOT  released from its rights and obligations under the Purchase Agreement."  (FACC, ¶ 52.) Additionally, the FACC claims Luu breached the agreement by  failing to cure the defective title on the Subject Property, which allegedly  caused W&B and Hui to incur significant legal fees and costs in their  efforts to investigate the matter, obtain transactional documents, and  coordinate corrective actions with Cross-Defendants. (FACC, ¶ 57.) W&B also  alleges that defending this lawsuit caused further financial damages. (FACC, ¶¶  58-59.)However, these allegations conflict with the attached exhibits of the  Purchase Agreement to the FACC. It is well-established that while a complaint’s  allegations must generally be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, “facts  appearing in exhibits attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true  and, if contrary to the allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.”  (Brakke v. Economic Concepts, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 761, 767.) The  attached Purchase Agreement contains no provision imposing a duty on the buyer  or assignor to guarantee the accuracy of the Grant Deed or correct errors after  closing.Further, the FACC itself contradicts its claim that Luu breached the  agreement by failing to perform post-closing obligations. W&B and Hui  allege in ¶ 27 of the FACC that the sale transaction, including the closing of  escrow, was completed on November 20, 2020. This admission establishes that all  obligations under the Purchase Agreement had been fulfilled, leaving no further  performance required by Luu.The Court therefore finds that W&B and Hui’s allegations regarding  breach of contract fail to establish a viable cause of action since the  contradictory statements in the FACC and exhibits negate the claim that Luu  breached the Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause  of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  Fifth cause of  action: IndemnificationParties may expressly contract for a duty to indemnify. (See Valley  Crest Landscape Development, Inc. v. Mission Pools of Escondido, Inc.  (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 468, 479.) Both breach of express contractual indemnity  and breach of contract thus rely on the existence of a contract between the  parties. The FACC alleges the Purchase Agreement includes an indemnification  provision requiring Luu and other Cross-Defendants to indemnify W&B for  damages arising from the transaction, including legal fees and costs. (FACC, ¶¶  85-87.)Luu demurrers to this cause of action arguing that the language of  Section 17(c) of the Purchase Agreement limits indemnification to damages  arising from “Buyer’s investigation or work done on the Property at Buyer’s  direction, prior to close of escrow.” Luu asserts that the damages alleged by  W&B—caused by the defective Grant Deed—do not fall within the scope of the  indemnity clause because they were not related to any entry upon or  investigation of the property by the buyer or assignee.The Court finds that under the alleged provision in the agreement, the  indemnity clause expressly limits its scope to “buyer and seller protection for  entry upon the property.” The plain language of Section 17(C) applies narrowly  to circumstances where damages arise from physical entry upon the property or  investigative activities undertaken by the buyer prior to the close of escrow.  Here, W&B and Hui seek indemnification for damages stemming from the  omission of the second parcel in the Grant Deed. Such damages are outside the  scope of Section 17(C).Additionally, as a matter of law, indemnification clauses are not  interpreted to extend beyond their explicit terms. (See Crawford v. Weather  Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 552.) Courts must construe  indemnity agreements strictly, adhering to the express language of the  provision. W&B and Hui have not alleged facts demonstrating that the  damages incurred resulted from conduct falling within the indemnity provision’s  limited scope.Accordingly, the Court finds that the FACC fails to state sufficient  facts to support a claim for indemnification under the Purchase Agreement.  The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. IV.       ORDER            As to  Cross-Defendant To Van Luu, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the FACC without leave  to amend.            To Van Luu is to  give notice. Dated: November 25, 2024                   JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING CROSS-DEFENDANTS  MILANO AND CAM VINH LUU’S DEMURRER TO THE FACC WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND and DENYING  MOTION TO STRIKE I.         INTRODUCTION             This action  arises out of a dispute regarding the sale of real property located at 12138  Valley Boulevard, El Monte, California ("Subject Property"). On or about October 3, 2020,  Cross-Complainant W&B Investment Group, LLC (“W&B”) entered into a  Purchase Agreement with Cross-Defendant To Van Luu (“Luu”) for the sale of two  parcels of vacant land comprising the Subject Property. Cross-Complainant  Vincent Hung Shing Hui (“Hui”) is the sole owner and member of W&B.  Subsequently, Luu assigned her rights and obligations under the Purchase  Agreement to Cross-Defendants Milano Realty, LLC, and Cam Vinh Luu (“Cam”)  (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) The transaction was facilitated by  Cross-Defendant Premier Escrow Services, Inc. (“Premier”) and First American  Title Company (“FATCO”), On July 31, 2024, W&B and Hui  filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Luu, Milano, Premier,  and FATCO asserting the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)  Negligence, (3) Fraud, (4) Rescission of Transaction, and (5) Indemnification. Subsequently:  On       August 27, 2024, To Vin Luu filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       September 4, 2024, FATCO filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       October 1, 2024, Milano and Cam Vinh Luu filed a demurrer to the FACC. On       November 12, 2024, W&B and Hui filed oppositions to the demurrers       filed by Luu, FATCO, and Milano. On       November 18, 2024, Luu, FATCO, and Milano each filed replies to the       oppositions.  Before the Court is the demurrer  and motion to strike filed by Cross-Defendants Milano and Cam Vinh Luu as to  W&B and Hui’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.   Meet and Confer Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and  confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the  responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video  conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.  Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing  the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to  meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer  or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.  (a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) Here, on September 5, 2024, counsel  for Cross-Defendants and counsel for W&B and Hui participated in a  meet-and-confer discussion. Despite good faith efforts, the parties were unable  to reach a resolution regarding the grounds for the demurrer to the FACC. (Chen  Decl., ¶ 2.) Accordingly, Cross-Defendants have satisfied the meet-and-confer  requirements.   Judicial notice Cross-Defendants request Judicial notice of the following  documents:  Substitution       of Trustee and Full Reconveyance of real properties located at 12138       Valley Boulevard, El Monte, CA 91732, dated July 6, 2023, and recorded       with the Los Angeles County Recorder as Document Number 20230453766 Certificate       of Status for W&B Investment Group LLC (“W&B”), dated August 22,       2024, issued by the California Secretary of State.  W&B and Hui oppose these requests. The court may take judicial notice  of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of  the United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any  court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any  state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not  reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate  determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.  Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) The Court GRANTS the request as to the  Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance. However, the Court DENIES the  request as to Certificate of Status for W&B Investment Group LLC.     II.        LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer tests the legal  sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”  they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be  accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224  Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.)  Pleadings are to be broadly  construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the  facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart  Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivision (f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers  for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible  a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,  Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  III.      ANALYSIS Demurrer Milano and Cam Vinh Luu Demur to the FACC on the grounds that each of the  five causes of action fails to allege sufficient facts to state a valid claim, and  that the FACC is further deficient due to the misjoinder of Hui.    Misjoinder of  Vincent Hui Code of Civil Procedure section 378 provides that all persons may be  joined in one action as plaintiffs if “[t]hey assert any right to relief  jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the  same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if  any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the  action; or [t]hey have a claim, right, or interest adverse to the defendant in  the property or controversy which is the subject of the action.” Id., §  378(a). Thus, “[t]here may be permissive joinder of parties plaintiff under  section 378 in two situations: (1) Where there exists both a common  interest in the subject of the action and any question of law or fact  common to all the plaintiffs [citation], and (2) where there exists both  a right to relief arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions  and any common question of law or fact [citation].” Coleman v. Twin Coast  Newspaper, Inc. (1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 650, 653.  Cross-Defendants argue that Vincent Hui is misjoined under Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (c), asserting that he lacks a personal  connection to the transaction.  The FACC alleges that Hui, as the sole owner of W&B, suffered damages  resulting from the defective title and subsequent legal disputes. (FACC, ¶¶ 49,  59.) However, it fails to articulate how Hui’s purported damages differ from  those alleged by W&B or how his personal claims arise out of the same  transaction or series of transactions described in the FACC. The Court finds that The FACC does not plead facts demonstrating that  Hui’s personal interests align with W&Bs in a way that creates a common  interest under section 378(a). The FACC does not allege any unique legal or  factual questions specific to Hui that would warrant his inclusion as a party  separate from W&B. The Court finds that Hui’s inclusion as a cross-complainant constitutes  improper joinder under Code of Civil Procedure section 378. The demurrer on  grounds of misjoinder is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   First cause of  action: Breach of contract “The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the  contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street  Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,  1178.)  The FACC alleges that Cross-Defendants breached the Purchase Agreement  and related Assignment Agreement by failing to fulfill their obligations,  including making required payments under the Promissory Note secured by the  Deed of Trust. The FACC contends that Cross-Defendants defaulted on their  payment obligations, resulting in W&B initiating nonjudicial foreclosure  proceedings. (FACC, ¶¶ 34–35, 56.) The FACC adequately pleads the existence of the Purchase Agreement and  Assignment Agreement, as well as W&B’s performance under the contract by  transferring title to the Subject Property. (FACC, ¶¶ 19–20, 49.) The  allegations that Cross-Defendants failed to make payments under the Promissory  Note and neglected their duty to address the title defect sufficiently state  breaches of contractual obligations. (FACC, ¶¶ 34–36, 56.) However, the Court  finds that the FACC does not adequately allege how W&B’s claimed damages  were proximately caused by the alleged breaches. While W&B asserts  financial losses related to legal fees and corrective actions, it fails to  demonstrate how these expenses directly flowed from the alleged breach of the  Purchase Agreement.  Accordingly, the Court finds that the FACC fails to adequately plead  damages for breach of contract. Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave  to amend as to this cause of action.   Second cause of  action: Negligence The elements for negligence are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff  to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the  plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137  Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)  Cross-Defendants demur to this cause of action arguing that the absence  of damages precludes a viable claim for negligence.  Cross-Defendants contend  they fulfilled their duty to transfer title and address any errors, including  the missing parcel. It argues that the FACC fails to allege specific facts  showing a breach of duty or unreasonable conduct by Cross-Defendants. Cross-Defendants  assert that correcting the missing parcel and executing a corrective grant deed  were obligations of other parties. (Demurrer, p.8) The FACC alleges that Cross-Defendants, as buyers and licensed real  estate professionals, owed a duty of care to W&B to ensure the accuracy and  completeness of the grant deed and to investigate and promptly correct any  errors related to the transfer of title. (FACC, ¶¶ 67–70.) The FACC asserts  that Cross-Defendants breached this duty by failing to investigate and correct  the title defect in a timely manner, despite being notified of the missing  parcel. (FACC, ¶ 31.) As a result, W&B alleges that it incurred damages in  the form of legal fees, costs associated with correcting the title, and  financial harm from defending Milano's lawsuit. (FACC, ¶¶ 36–38, 57–58.) The Court finds that the FACC sufficiently alleges duty and breach (FACC  ¶¶ 67–70; ¶ 31). However, the FACC fails to allege how Cross-Defendants’  conduct directly caused W&B’s damages, particularly the legal fees  associated with defending this lawsuit. Such fees are barred under the  litigation privilege (Civ. Code, § 47), which provides immunity for  litigation-related activities, including the filing of pleadings or complaints,  as long as they are connected to a judicial proceeding. (Action Apartment  Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) Because  W&B’s claimed damages arise directly from Milano’s filing of a complaint—a  protected litigation activity—the negligence claim cannot stand on that basis. Accordingly, this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to  amend.    Third cause of  action: Fraud The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)  intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)  resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)  In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with  specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,  184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,  when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino  v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)   Cross-Defendants demur to this cause of action arguing that the fraud  claim lacks specificity and is contradicted by the FACC’s own allegations. They  assert that W&B fail to allege actionable misrepresentations or concealment  of material facts, as the claim that Cross-Defendants misrepresented their  financial ability to complete the purchase is refuted by the FACC's  acknowledgment that escrow closed successfully, secured by a promissory note  (FACC, ¶27). Cross-Defendants also contend that the allegation of ignoring the  missing parcel is unsupported by facts demonstrating reliance or intent to  mislead. Lastly, Cross-Defendants point to the judicially noticeable  Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance as evidence of full performance  undermining the fraud claim. The FACC alleges that Cross-Defendants intentionally misrepresented and  concealed material facts regarding the missing parcel and their financial  ability to complete the purchase of the Subject Property. W&B contend that they  failed to disclose the missing parcel after becoming aware of it and delayed  corrective action to avoid making payments under the Purchase Agreement (FACC,  ¶¶ 31, 72–73). The FACC further claims that W&B relied on Cross-Defendants’  representations to their detriment, incurring legal fees and corrective costs  due to these alleged fraudulent actions (FACC, ¶¶ 36, 38, 57–58). The Court finds that W&B fails to plead the elements of fraud with  sufficient specificity. The allegations regarding Cross-Defendants’ financial  ability to complete the transaction are contradicted by the FACC’s  acknowledgment that escrow closed successfully, secured by a promissory note  (FACC, ¶27). Additionally, the claim that Cross-Defendants concealed the  missing parcel lacks particularity as to how W&B relied on the alleged  misrepresentation or how it caused damages. W&B also fail to allege facts  demonstrating an intent to defraud or scienter. Accordingly, this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to  amend.    Fourth cause of  action: Recission “Rescission is not a cause of action; it is a remedy.” (Nakash v.  Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 59, 70.) To justify rescission based  on fraud, the aggrieved party must show that the fraud induced the making of  the contract and must promptly provide notice and offer to restore any  consideration received. (See 1 Witkin, Summary of California Law, Contracts §  298 (11th ed. 2020); Wong v. Stoler (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1388.) Cross-Defendants demur to this cause of action arguing that there is no  fraud to justify rescission. Furthermore, they contends that the judicially  noticeable Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance demonstrates full  performance under the agreement, undermining any claim for rescission. W&B alleges in the FACC that Cross-Defendants’ fraudulent  misrepresentations regarding the missing parcel and financial ability to  perform justify rescission of the Purchase Agreement. (¶¶ 83–84) However, as  discussed above, the FACC fails to adequately plead fraud with the requisite  specificity, and therefore, there is no valid basis for rescission. Without  actionable allegations of fraud or other grounds for rescission, this claim  cannot stand. Thus, this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.    Fifth cause of  action: Indemnification The FACC alleges the Purchase Agreement includes an indemnification  provision requiring Cross-Defendants to indemnify W&B for damages arising  from the transaction, including legal fees and costs. (FACC, ¶¶ 85-87.) The Court finds that under the alleged provision in the agreement, the  indemnity clause expressly limits its scope to “buyer and seller protection for  entry upon the property.” The plain language of Section 17(C) applies narrowly  to circumstances where damages arise from physical entry upon the property or  investigative activities undertaken by the buyer prior to the close of escrow.  Here, W&B seeks indemnification for damages stemming from the omission of  the second parcel in the Grant Deed. Such damages are outside of the scope of  Section 17(C). Thus, this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  Motion to strike The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon  terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also  strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with  the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., §  436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has  irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in  conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must  appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. §  437.) Given that the Court has sustained the demurrer to the FACC without leave  to amend, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as MOOT.   IV.       ORDER             The Court  SUSTAINS Cross-Defendants’ demurrer of the FACC in its entirety.             The motion  to strike is denied as MOOT.              Milano is  to give notice.              Dated: November 25, 2024                     JARED D. MOSES                JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT            