 Case Number:  23PSCV03069    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Dean Ziroli’s Demurrer
to Plaintiffs Vida Arbab and Jeffrey Nader’s Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Vida
Arbab and Jeffrey Nader
Defendant Dean Ziroli’s Motion to Strike As To Portions of Plaintiffs Vida
Arbab and Jeffrey Nader’s Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiff Vida Arbab and Jeffrey
Nader
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Dean Ziroli’s Demurrer
to Plaintiffs Vida Arbab and Jeffrey Nader’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant Dean Ziroli’s Motion to Strike As To Portions of Plaintiffs Vida
Arbab and Jeffrey Nader’s Complaint is DENIED.
Defendant Dean Ziroli to
Answer the Complaint in ten (10) days.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for fraud and negligence. In April 2016, Defendants Clement Ziroli
and Hacienda Equity Corporation (Hacienda) acquired a property in Los Angeles
County (Subject Property) for short-term investment purposes and transferred the
Subject Property to the Ziroli Trust. Subsequently, Defendants Dean Ziroli,
Clement Ziroli, and Hacienda engaged in renovations of the Subject Property by
adding two additional bedrooms. Plaintiffs Vida Arbab and Jeffrey Nader then
purchased the Subject Property for $1,575,000.00. In June 2023, Arbab and Nader
discovered the renovations had concealed an indoor pool which resulted in
moisture and noxious odors invading the Subject Property. They also allege they
discovered the renovations were unpermitted.
On
October 4, 2023, Arbab and Nader filed a complaint against Dean Ziroli,
individually and as trustee of the Ziroli Trust; Clement Ziroli; Hacienda; Bill
Abalos, doing business as Inspection Pro Home Inspectors; and Does 1-100,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraudulent concealment, (2) unjust
enrichment, and (3) negligence.
On
March 21, 2024, Arbab and Nader dismissed Abalos from the present action.
On
April 8, 2024, Arbab and Nader dismissed their second cause of action for
unjust enrichment from their Complaint which is mislabeled as the “third cause
of action.”
On April
10, 2024, Dean Ziroli filed the present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to
filing on April 4, Dean Ziroli’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with Arbab
and Nader’s counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Setian Decl., ¶ 3.)
On April 10, 2024, Clement Ziroli and Hacienda also filed a notice of joinder
to Dean Ziroli’s demurrer and motion to strike.
On
April 25, 2024, Arbab and Nader dismissed Clement Ziroli and Hacienda from the
Complaint.
A hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for May 13, 2024, along with a case
management conference.
ANALYSIS
Ziroli
demurs to Arbab and Nader’s first cause of action for fraudulent concealment on
the grounds that the Complaint fails to allege fraud with the required
specificity. For the following reasons, the Court OVERRULES Ziroli’s demurrer.
Legal Standard
Demurrer
A party
may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Fraud
“[T]he
elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.’” (Kaldenbach v. Mutual of
Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850, quoting Roddenberry
v. Roddenberry (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 634, 665-666.) Furthermore, the facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Discussion
Ziroli
first argues the Complaint fails to establish how Ziroli was under a duty to
disclose. (Demurrer, p. 4:4-9.) Generally, one party’s failure to disclose
material facts unknown to another party is not fraud unless “unless there is¿some
relationship¿between the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose
such known facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337,
quoting BAJI No. 12.36 (8th ed. 1994.) “In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of
material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes
representations but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts
disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead;¿(2)¿the facts are
known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known
to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff;¿(3) the defendant actively
conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Warner Constr. Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294.)
In
this case, the Complaint alleges Ziroli “represented in signed agreements
during escrow that there were no code violations pending.” (Complaint, ¶ 22.) The
Complaint further alleges Ziroli failed to disclose that the absence of pending
code violations was a result of no permits being requested or inspections
conducted. (Complaint, ¶ 22.) Because the alleged failure to obtain permits and
inspections affects the meaning and weight of the claim that there were no
pending code violations, the Complaint adequately alleges Ziroli had a duty to
disclose.
Ziroli
next contends the Complaint fails to allege Ziroli’s alleged misrepresentations
with specificity. In alleging a cause of action for fraud, “[t]he specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Here,
the Complaint alleges Ziroli made representations about the absence of pending
code violations in “signed agreements during escrow.” (Complaint, ¶ 22.) Ziroli
contends this allegation is insufficient because it does not specify what the
signed agreement was. (Demurrer, p. 4:12-15.) But elsewhere, the Complaint
clarifies that the documents executed during escrow were seller disclosures.
(Complaint, ¶ 25.) Thus, the court finds the Complaint adequately pleads Ziroli’s
alleged representations with the required specificity.
Last,
Ziroli maintains the Complaint fails to demonstrate how Arbab and Nader
reasonably relied on Ziroli’s alleged representations as it fails to show to
that they could not have determined the existence of the alleged Subject
Property issues prior to purchase and close of escrow. (Demurrer, p. 5:8-11.)
But the Complaint does allege so. It alleges the concealment was “so thorough
that the true condition of the property was not apparent to Plaintiffs or their
real estate agent.” (Complaint, ¶ 27.) Thus, the court finds the Complaint
adequately alleges the reliance element of fraudulent concealment.
Accordingly,
Ziroli’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
Ziroli
moves to strike Arbab and Nader’s request for punitive damages from the
Complaint on the grounds that the first cause of action for fraudulent
concealment is insufficiently pled. (Motion, p. 3:15-22.) Because this motion
is made upon the same grounds as the demurrer, it is DENIED for the
reasons noted above.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing,
Ziroli’s demurrer to Arbab and Nader’s Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Furthermore, Ziroli’s motion to strike is DENIED on
the same grounds.
Defendant Dean Ziroli to
Answer the Complaint in ten (10) days.