 Case Number:  23STCP03581    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Center for Biological Diversity,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP03581




v.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




City of Long Beach, Long Beach City Council, California
  State Lands Commission, et al.,
 


 
Respondents.
 


 


 




 
California Resources Corporation, THUMS Long Beach
  Company, et al.,
 


 
Real Parties in Interest


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 13, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter 
Petitions for Writ of Mandate
Moving Party:
Petitioner Center for Biological Diversity
Responding Parties: Respondent
City of Long Beach, Long Beach City Council, California State Lands Commission;
and Real Parties California Resources Corporation, THUMS Long Beach Company.
 
T/R:     THE PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE BY CENTER FOR BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY IS GRANTED.
 
PETITIONER CENTER FOR
BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY TO NOTICE. 
 
The 2023-2028 Program
Plan for the oil and gas wells in the Long Beach Unit (LBU) calls for expanded
oil and natural gas extraction and a new practice for enhanced oil recovery.
The central issue in this lawsuit is whether an environmental review of that Plan
is required under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Court
finds that environmental review is required. The Plan is a “project” subject to
CEQA. It does not qualify for CEQA’s “ministerial” exemption; it is
discretionary because it requires deliberation and judgments by the City of
Long Beach and the California State Lands Commission (SLC), including decisions
on drilling volumes and schedules, and environmental safeguards.
 
The Court also finds
that the 2023-2028 Program Plan does not qualify for the ongoing project
exemption from CEQA because it involves expanded activities beyond prior
approvals, including new drilling and advanced recovery techniques. These
changes constitute significant modifications introducing new environmental
impacts. Nor does the existing facilities exemption apply, as the Plan
authorizes substantial expansions, including more than 100 drilling activities
and increased production levels. These activities exceed negligible changes and
create the potential for significant environmental impacts.
 
The Court will enjoin
new activities included in the 2023-2028 Program Plan until CEQA compliance is achieved.
Operations under the previous 2021-2026 Program Plan – a Plan which was not
challenged in this lawsuit – remain unaffected.
            
I.   
BACKGROUND
In
1911, California granted control of the Long Beach Unit (LBU) lands to the City
of Long Beach, later establishing it as the operator of oil and gas activities
in the Wilmington Oil Field. In 1962, Long Beach adopted an ordinance which
permitted the construction of offshore islands, subject to safety measures, and
required repressuring operations to prevent land subsidence. 
In
1964, with the passage of an act known as “Chapter 138,” California mandated
oil and gas production at the LBU through contracts between Long Beach, the
State Lands Commission (SLC), and private contractors. Chapter 138 required
Long Beach and SLC to prepare a “contractors’ agreement” to develop oil and gas
“for the benefit and profit” of California, as well as other agreements
necessary “for the production of oil, gas and other hydrocarbons . . . in
accordance with good oil field practice and prevention of land surface
subsidence.” 
Under
Chapter 138, Long Beach, SLC, oil companies (THUMS)[1],
and mineral estate owners entered into contracts governing development of the
LBU and revenue sharing, which require the ongoing production of oil and gas
from the LBU. The Unit Operating Agreement requires maximizing oil recovery
through repressuring operations and required Long Beach to operate the LBU.
These contracts remain in force for the economic life of the LBU. Long Beach’s
ability to curtail production is limited to two scenarios: (1) to prevent land
subsidence or (2) when oil prices become uneconomical. Outside of these
conditions, state law and the contracts prohibit halting production. 
Since
1991, the Optimized Waterflood Program Agreement (OWPA) under Chapter 941 has
governed LBU operations, requiring five-year program plans to replace annual
plans. These plans forecast oil production, well maintenance, expenditures, and
strategies for maximizing recovery while maintaining safety and environmental
standards. The program plans ensure transparency for stakeholders, including
Long Beach, SLC, and THUMS. SLC's oversight role under Chapter 941 is limited
to reviewing plans for consistency with good oil field practices, safety, and
existing agreements, without controlling day-to-day operations. SLC shares in
LBU profits but does not operate the unit. 
The
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) had not yet been enacted when Chapter
138 became law. CEQA was in effect when the Legislature passed Chapter 941, in
1991. Chapter 941 clarified that five-year plans must comply with contemporary
environmental laws. It states that “nothing
in this act shall limit the application of any law or regulation which is
intended to protect or may protect the environment.” (Chapter 941, sec. 4(a);
Chapter 941, sec. 7.)
At
issue in this lawsuit is the 2023-2028 Program Plan for the LBU. The 2023-2028
Plan became effective after revisions ordered by SLC. Petitioner states that the Plan authorizes the extraction of
26.2 million barrels of oil and 12 billion cubic feet of natural gas – an increase
in production volume from previous program plans. The Plan anticipates drilling
additional development wells, including re-drilling of 102 wells. It would
permit the use of a new, intensive practice of enhanced oil recovery. No environmental
review or analysis of this Plan under CEQA was conducted. 
Petitioner contends that the Program
Plan would result in physical changes to the environment. It cites the
Commission’s staff report, stating that the oil and gas operations of the LBU
are a source of air pollution affecting public health, safety, and the
environment. Neighbors and other stakeholders expressed concerns about public
health impacts, greenhouse gas emissions, and the possibility of oil spills.
Petitioner
filed a writ of petition for mandate and complaint for declaratory and
injunctive relief on September 29, 2023.  
II.   
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Respondents and Real
Parties’ Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to Exhibits A pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
III.   
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
A party may seek to set aside an agency decision by petitioning for a
writ of administrative mandamus (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5) or traditional
mandamus (Code Civ. Proc., § 1085). A petition for administrative mandamus is
appropriate when the party seeks review of a “determination, finding, or
decision of a public agency, made as a result of a proceeding in which by law a
hearing is required to be given, evidence is required to be taken and
discretion in the determination of facts is vested in a public agency, on the
grounds of noncompliance with [CEQA].” (Pub. Resources Code § 21168.)
 
In an
action challenging an agency’s decision under CEQA, the trial court reviews the
agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (PRC § 21168.5.)
“Abuse of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded in a manner
required by law or if the determination or decision is not supported by
substantial evidence.” (Ibid.; see also Vineyard Area Citizens
for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th
412, 435.) “The standard of review in administrative
mandate proceedings is well-settled: whether the agency acted without or in
excess of jurisdiction, whether there was a fair hearing, and whether there was
a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion occurs when the
agency did not proceed in the manner required by law, its order or decision is
not supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)” (Hubbard v. California
Coastal Com. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 119, 135.) The court reviews “the
administrative record to determine whether the Agency’s findings are supported
by substantial evidence.  (Id.) 
 
Whether the Program Plan is a project
subject to CEQA, and whether a CEQA exemption applies, are reviewed de novo. “While
judicial review of CEQA decisions extends only to whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion, ‘an agency may abuse its discretion under CEQA
either by failing to proceed in the manner CEQA provides or by reaching factual
conclusions unsupported by substantial evidence. (§ 21168.5.) Judicial review
of these two types of error differs significantly: while we determine de novo
whether the agency has employed the correct procedures, ‘scrupulously
enforc[ing] all legislatively mandated CEQA requirements' (Citizens of Goleta Valley v. Board of Supervisors (1990) 52 Cal.3d 553, 564, 276 Cal.Rptr. 410,
801 P.2d 1161), we accord greater deference to the agency's substantive
factual conclusions.’ (Vineyard Area Citizens for Responsible Growth,
Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova, supra, 40 Cal.4th at
p. 435, 53 Cal.Rptr.3d 821, 150 P.3d 709.)” (Save Tara v. City of West Hollywood (2008) 45 Cal.4th
116, 131.)
 
IV.   
ANALYSIS
 
A.  
The Program Plan Constitutes a “Project”
Under CEQA
 
“When a public agency
is asked to grant regulatory approval of a private activity or proposes to fund
or undertake an activity on its own, the agency must first decide whether the
proposed activity is subject to CEQA. (Guidelines, § 15060, subd. (c).)” (Union
of Medical Marijuana Patients, Inc. v. City of San Diego (2019) 7
Cal.5th 1171, 1185.) Under CEQA, a “project” is defined as an activity that may
cause either a direct physical change in the environment or a reasonably
foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment. (Pub. Res. Code § 21065.)
A “project” includes (1) an activity directly undertaken by any public agency,
(2) an activity undertaken by a private party but supported in whole or in part
by public agency assistance such as contracts, grants, or loans, and (3) an
activity that involves the issuance of a lease, permit, license, certificate,
or other entitlement for use by a public agency. (Rominger v. County of
Colusa (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 690, 701 [overruled in part but not the portion
cited]; Pub. Res. Code § 21065.) “If the proposed activity is found not to be a
project, the agency may proceed without further regard to CEQA. (Muzzy Ranch,
supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 380, 60 Cal.Rptr.3d 247, 160 P.3d 116;
Guidelines, § 15060, subd. (c)(3) [if a proposed activity does not qualify as a
project, it ‘is not subject to CEQA’].)” (Union of Medical Marijuana
Patients, supra, 7 Cal.5th at 1186.) 
 
            The Court finds that the 2023-2028
Program Plan is a “project” under CEQA; it governs and directs oil and gas
activities in the LBU, including new and expanded operations that have may
cause direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical changes to the environment.
Contrary to Respondents’ and Real Parties’ arguments, the Plan is not a mere
description of ongoing operations. Rather, Petitioner shows that it shapes the
trajectory of LBU activities. Section 5 of Chapter 138, later incorporated into
Chapter 941, mandates that all oil and gas exploration, development, and
operations in the Long Beach tidelands must occur “in accordance with plans of
development and operation.” This statutory language demonstrates that the
Program Plan dictates future operational activities, including well drilling,
production rates, and technologies used, which have foreseeable environmental
impacts. 
 
As noted, CEQA defines
a project broadly to include actions that may cause direct or indirect physical
changes to the environment. Courts consistently have held that plans guiding
future activities—such as timber harvesting plans or general plans—are projects
under CEQA because they influence physical changes in the environment. (Sierra
Club v. State Bd. of Forestry (1994) 7 Cal. 4th 1215, 1237.) By authorizing
activities such as new drilling and advanced extraction methods, the Plan
introduces foreseeable environmental risks, including greenhouse gas emissions
and public health concerns. 
 
B.  
The Program Plan Is A Discretionary
Action
 
CEQA guidelines
clarify that a project refers to the “whole of an action” that is subject to
discretionary governmental approvals. (North Coast Rivers Alliance v.
Westlands Water Dist. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 832, 858.) The term “project”
does not refer to each separate governmental approval but to the overall
activity being approved. (Id.) A discretionary project is one that
requires the exercise of judgment or deliberation by a public agency when
deciding to approve or disapprove an activity, unlike ministerial projects
where the agency simply determines conformity with statutes or regulations. (Sierra
Club v. County of Sonoma (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 11, 20.) The key test for
discretion is whether the agency can use subjective judgment to decide whether
and how to approve or modify the project. (Protecting Our Water and
Environmental Resources v. County of Stanislaus (2020) 10 Cal.5th 479,
493.) A project containing both discretionary and ministerial elements is
considered discretionary and subject to CEQA review. (Sierra Club, supra,
11 Cal.App.5th at 21.) CEQA applies broadly to discretionary projects approved
or carried out by public agencies, including activities like zoning ordinance
enactments, zoning variances, and tentative subdivision map approvals. (Pub.
Res. Code § 21080.)
 
            The Court finds that the Program
Plan is discretionary under CEQA. Respondents and Real Parties characterize the
Program Plan as akin to a “shareholder disclosure,” describing revenue and
operational projections. They argue that all the activities described in the
plan were “approved” decades ago. But Long Beach and SLC exercised deliberation,
discretion, and judgment in creating, reviewing, and approving the Plan. Long
Beach made decisions about adding production wells, drilling schedules,
production rates, infrastructure investments, and enhanced oil recovery
techniques. Under Chapter 138, decisions must be made “in accordance with good oil
field practice and prevention of land surface subsidence.” The Court finds that these
decisions require subjective analysis, discretion, and judgment. For example, Respondents
and Real Parties do not contend, nor could they, that “good oil field practices”
have remained frozen since the 1960s, or that no discretion or analysis is
needed to determine what constitutes good oil field practices for a new Program
Plan. Similarly, SLC exercised discretion by ordering eleven revisions to the
Plan, including assessments of sea-level rise, public health impacts,
environmental justice concerns, and risks posed by idle wells. These revisions
reflect the Commission’s ability to shape the Plan to address environmental and
safety risks. 
 
C.  
The Program Plan Does Not Qualify for a
CEQA Exemption
 
1.   
Ongoing Project Exemption
 
The ongoing project
exemption under CEQA applies to projects approved before November 23, 1970. (14
Cal. Code Reg. § 15261.) The key issue in applying this exemption is whether
the challenged action is a “normal, intrinsic part” of the pre-CEQA-approved
project, rather than an expansion or significant modification. (North Coast
Rivers Alliance v. Westlands Water Dist. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 832,
857.) Routine operations are exempt, but significant changes may fall outside
this exemption. A project remains exempt unless: (1) a substantial portion of
public funds remains unspent, and it is still feasible to modify or halt the
project to mitigate environmental effects, or (2) the agency proposes
modifications that could result in a new significant environmental impact. (14
Cal. Code Reg. § 15261.)  
 
            Petitioner argues that the Program
Plan does not qualify for the ongoing project exemption because it is a new,
forward-looking document that authorizes activities beyond those approved pre-CEQA,
including the use of enhanced oil recovery techniques and the drilling of new
wells, which will have significant environmental impacts. Petitioner highlights
that the Program Plan expands the scope and intensity of drilling, with new
wells and an increase in oil production. Petitioner also states the Plan
represents new decisions about public expenditures (including $58.3 million for
development drilling in 2024). 
 Petitioner relies on County
of Inyo v. Yorty (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 795 and County of Amador v.
El Dorado County Water Agency (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 931, to argue that
adding new project components or shifting project goals—such as increased
extraction—disqualifies an activity from the ongoing project exemption. In County
of Inyo, adding four new wells disqualified an activity from the ongoing
project exemption. (32 Cal. App. 3d at 814 [new pumps and water extraction
might have a new significant impact on the environment and disqualified the
project from ongoing project exemption].) In County of Amador, the court
found that a shift in project focus and goals since the pre-CEQA era might lead
to new significant impacts on the environment, and the ongoing projects
exemption did not apply. Petitioner emphasizes that the Program Plan will have
significant environmental effects, including air pollution, climate impacts,
and expanded oil extraction operations.
 
            In opposition, Respondents and Real
Parties argue that the Program Plan is exempt under the ongoing project
exemption because the LBU was fully approved prior to CEQA’s enactment in 1970.
They argue that the Program Plan merely represents a normal, intrinsic part of
ongoing operations, which have continued for decades without expansion. It
forecasts production, expenditures, and maintenance rather than authorizing new
activities. Respondents compare this to Nacimiento Regional Water Management
Advisory Committee, et al. v. Monterey County Water Resource Agency, et al. (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 200, 205, where the annual water release schedule for a dam
which was originally constructed before CEQA was exempt because it reflected
routine operations. They note that production in the LBU remains within the
originally approved scope, currently operating at only 10% of pre-CEQA peak
levels. In Nacimiento, the court held that the release schedule was
a “normal, intrinsic part” of the dam’s ongoing operations and therefore exempt
from CEQA review. To determine whether an activity qualifies as “normal” and
“intrinsic,” the court assesses whether the activity expands or enlarges
project facilities or merely adjusts operations to accommodate fluctuating
conditions. (Nacimiento, supra, 15 Cal.App.4th at 205.) 
 
            The Court finds that the ongoing
project exemption does not apply. Petitioner correctly points out that this
exemption is narrow and applies only to projects approved before CEQA’s
enactment in 1970. Respondents’ and Real Parties’ claim that all LBU activities
in the 2023-2028 Program Plan were fully approved in the 1960s is misplaced; as
discussed, the 2023-2028 Plan authorizes new operations, including the drilling
of new production wells, updated injection strategies, and the use of enhanced
oil recovery to develop unproven reserves. The Court finds that these activities
extend beyond prior approvals and represent an expansion or shift in
operations. 
 
Similarly, it
is of no moment that overall oil field production has decreased since the
1960s, and the number of wells remains within the number originally approved. Respondents
and Real Parties have not shown that Chapter 138 or the ordinance that
contemplates drilling in the LBU specifies how many wells may be drilled and
when, and what technologies may be used. As discussed, the 2023-2028 Program
Plan prescribes drilling and extraction for future years, including new
activities and new extraction practices to develop unproven reserves. 
 
            Respondents and Real Parties
correctly note that Chapter 138 mandates oil and gas development at the site;
they suggest that granting the petition here would violate that law. This overstates
the issue. Petitioner does not seek to halt all oil and gas development at the
LBU; the petition asks whether environmental review under CEQA is necessary for
a new Program Plan that authorizes new operations. Respondents and Real Parties
do not show that Chapter 138 can be read to exempt all oil and gas drilling in
the LBU from environmental review. And their argument also fails to consider Chapter 941, which clarified
that five-year plans must comply with contemporary environmental laws. 
 
            This
case is distinguishable from Nacimiento, where the dam’s water
release schedule was deemed a “normal, intrinsic part” of its operations
because it merely adjusted flows to accommodate changing conditions without
expanding the project. The Program Plan here involves new operational decisions
that go beyond routine adjustments; as discussed, it authorizes the drilling of
new production wells, introduces updated injection strategies, and uses
enhanced oil recovery techniques to develop unproven reserves. The Court finds that
these actions constitute an expansion of operations which were not part of the
original LBU scope approved prior to CEQA.
 
The facts here are more
analogous to County of Inyo and County of Amador, where, as
discussed, the projects involved significant modifications that introduced new
environmental impacts, disqualifying them from the ongoing project exemption. In
County of Inyo, the addition of new wells and pumps introduced new
components with potential environmental impacts. Similarly, in County of
Amador, a shift in project focus to include enhanced recovery methods was
deemed a substantial change requiring CEQA review. Here, the Program Plan incorporates
new operational decisions, including additional drilling and expanded
extraction methods, which carry new environmental impacts, beyond those
contemplated in the pre-CEQA approvals.
 
CEQA mandates review
when: (1) the project may result in a new significant environmental effect, or
(2) a substantial portion of public funds remain unspent, and mitigation is
still feasible (14 Cal. Code Reg. § 15261). The Court finds that both
conditions apply. The Plan proposes new drilling activities and enhanced
technologies, which create foreseeable environmental effects such as air
pollution and climate impacts. The Plan projects over $1.5 billion in public
expenditures, and since these activities are still modifiable, it remains
feasible to implement mitigation measures to reduce adverse impacts.
 
2.   
Existing Facilities Exemption
 
The existing
facilities exemption under CEQA is a categorical exemption that applies to
projects involving the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, licensing,
or minor alteration of existing structures, facilities, or features, where the
project results in negligible or no expansion of use beyond what existed at the
time of the agency’s determination. (14 Cal. Code Reg., § 15301; World
Business Academy v. California State Lands Commission (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
476, 493; North Coast Rivers Alliance v. Westlands Water Dist. (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 832, 851.) The key consideration is whether the project involves
only minor changes without significantly expanding the existing use. Examples
include interior/exterior alterations, maintenance of landscaping, and minor
repairs to existing structures. (14 Cal. Code Reg., § 15301.) This exemption is
based on the presumption that such projects do not have significant
environmental effects. However, categorical exemptions are subject to
exceptions, such as significant cumulative impacts, impacts in sensitive
environments, or potential harm to scenic or historical resources. (World
Business Academy, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at 476.)
 
Petitioner argues
that the existing facilities exemption does not apply to the Program Plan
because it involves significant expansions beyond existing operations. As noted,
the Program Plan authorizes the drilling or re-drilling of more than 100 wells,
leading to a significant increase in oil and gas production. The Plan
prescribes the production of 26.2 million barrels of oil and 12 billion cubic
feet of natural gas, representing an increase of 730,000 barrels of oil and 949
million cubic feet of gas over the previous five-year plan. Petitioner also
contends the Program Plan directs increased investment in development drilling
and enhanced oil recovery technologies. Petitioner states these expansions
create a reasonable possibility of significant environmental effects.
 
In opposition, Respondents
and Real Parties argue that the Program Plan involves only routine operations
and maintenance without any expansion of the LBU’s scope or capacity. They
point out that courts consistently have applied the existing facilities
exemption to large-scale facilities, such as nuclear power plants, water
systems, and wastewater treatment plants, where ongoing operations continue
without material changes. Respondents and Real Parties assert that the LBU
meets these criteria because it is an existing facility operating within its originally
approved scope. The Program Plan describes routine activities, including
redrilling and well maintenance, which are longstanding components of LBU
operations. Respondents emphasize that the Plan does not authorize new wells or
significant expansions, as any drilling approvals fall under the jurisdiction
of CalGEM, not the City of Long Beach or the SLC. Respondents maintain there is
no expansion beyond the historical scope of operations. The Plan describes
declining production, emissions, and well counts, demonstrating that activities
remain well within the original expectations established when the LBU first was
approved. Respondents distinguish this case from the precedents cited by
Petitioners. Unlike County of Amador, where operations expanded to
include new water sources and quantities, the LBU’s operations remain unchanged
in nature and scale. (County of Amador, supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at
947.) And they state that cases like World Business Academy, supra,
24 Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-497, and Progressive Gilroy v. State Water
Resources Control Bd. (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 847, 864-865), affirm the
applicability of the exemption to facilities maintaining their original scope.
 
In reply, Petitioner
argues that the Program Plan increases investment in development drilling and
enhanced oil recovery to develop unproven reserves. It authorizes additional
drilling at various locations, reflecting an operational expansion beyond
previously established activities. Petitioner emphasizes that the statutes
governing the LBU did not preordain a fixed number of wells or their specific
locations. Instead, they delegated decisionmaking to agencies through program
plans, which are inherently discretionary documents that determine operational
scope. Petitioner states the Program Plan’s expanded drilling activities and
increased production investments go far beyond minor alterations. 
 
The Court finds that
the existing facilities exemption does not apply here. While Respondents and
Real Parties argue that the LBU operates within its historical scope, the
2023-2028 Program Plan involves significant expansions outside the scope of
this exemption. These activities, as described in the record, represent an
operational expansion rather than routine maintenance. As discussed, the
statutes governing the LBU did not preordain a fixed number of wells or
production methods, delegating these decisions to the program plans, which are
inherently discretionary. By directing expanded drilling and new technologies,
the Program Plan goes beyond negligible changes and constitutes a substantial
operational shift. 
 
County of Inyo and Azusa Land
Reclamation support Petitioner’s position that projects with the reasonable
possibility of significant environmental effects are ineligible for categorical
exemptions. The increased production forecasts—26.2 million barrels of oil and
12 billion cubic feet of gas, reflecting significant increases over prior
plans—demonstrate foreseeable environmental impacts. Respondents and Real
Parties’ reliance on declining production and emissions figures is unpersuasive
considering the Plan’s explicit authorization of additional drilling activities
and investment in expanded operations. Comparisons to World Business Academy
and County of Amador highlight the key distinction here: the Program
Plan involves forward-looking decisions that expand operations, rather than
maintaining the status quo. The exemption does not apply where there is
evidence of significant changes or new environmental impacts. 
 
D.  
Petitioner’s Claims Are Not Untimely
 
Respondents and Real
Parties argue that Petitioner’s claims are time-barred under CEQA’s statute of
limitations, providing independent grounds for dismissal. Under CEQA, strict
statutes of limitations ranging from 30 to 180 days are imposed to ensure
stability, prevent stale claims, and reduce litigation. (Guidelines § 15112,
subd. (c).) Respondents contend that Petitioner’s challenge comes decades too
late because the LBU was fully approved and operational long before CEQA’s
enactment in 1970. Operations were approved under the 1962 Ordinance, with
additional statutory and contractual frameworks established by Chapter 138
(1964) and Chapter 941 (1991). Oil production at the LBU peaked in 1969, and
they assert that the current 2023-2028 Program Plan merely implements
previously approved and ongoing operations. 
 
Respondents also
invoke the equitable doctrine of laches, arguing that Petitioner’s unreasonable
delay in filing this challenge causes significant prejudice. They argue that Petitioner
waited more than 60 years after the original approvals and more than 32 years
since the first Program Plan to raise this claim. Courts have found much
shorter delays unreasonable in similar environmental cases. (People v. Dept.
of Housing and Community Development (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 185, 198 [finding
a five-and-a-half-month delay between the issuance of a construction permit and
commencement of legal action unreasonable].) Respondents and Real Parties claim
that the delay has prejudiced Respondents, particularly THUMS, which relied on
decades of unchallenged approvals to invest heavily in the LBU. Respondents and
Real Parties note that approximately $1.7 billion (in today’s dollars) was
spent on constructing and maintaining facilities, with hundreds of millions
invested in ongoing operations and infrastructure. Invalidating the LBU’s
operations now would unfairly undermine decades of reliance and investments,
creating substantial harm for THUMS, Long Beach, and the State.
 
1.   
Statute of Limitations
 
Under CEQA, the
30-day statute of limitations applies when a public agency files a Notice of
Determination (NOD), which alerts the public that any CEQA challenge to the
decision announced in the notice must be filed promptly. (Committee for
Green Foothills v. Santa Clara County Bd. of Supervisors (2010) 48 Cal.4th
32, 42-45.) This period applies regardless of the nature of the alleged CEQA
violation, including challenges to the adequacy of an Environmental Impact
Report (EIR). (Citizens for a Green San Mateo v. San Mateo County Community
College Dist. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1572, 1590.) If a Notice of Exemption
(NOE) is filed, the 35-day statute of limitations applies, starting from the
date the notice is filed. (May v. City of Milpitas (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 1307, 1322-1333; 14 CCR § 15112.) In cases where no NOD or NOE is
filed, CEQA imposes a 180-day statute of limitations. This period begins either
from the date the public agency decides to approve or carry out the project, or
from the commencement of the project if no formal decision is made. (14 Cal. Code
Reg., § 15112; Pub. Res. Code, § 21167.) 
 
These short
limitations periods are intended to provide finality and predictability in
public land use planning decisions. They allow project sponsors to proceed
without prolonged uncertainty and litigation, while ensuring diligence in
mounting environmental challenges. (Stockton Citizens for Sensible Planning
v. City of Stockton (2010) 48 Cal.4th 481, 488). Courts emphasize that
these strict deadlines prevent stale claims, stabilize transactions, protect
settled expectations, and reduce litigation volume. (Coalition for an
Equitable Westlake/Macarthur Park v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 47
Cal.App.5th 368, 378; Committee to Relocate Marilyn v. City of Palm Springs
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 607, 631.)
 
The Court finds that
Petitioner’s challenge to the 2023-2028 Program Plan is timely, and that
Respondents’ statute of limitations argument is without merit. Petitioner has
shown that the Program Plan is a separate, independent project that directs new
resources and operational decisions, distinguishing it from past activities. As
discussed above, the five-year program plans are not mere continuations of
pre-existing approvals but instead represent new discretionary decisions that
trigger CEQA review. Respondents’ contention that the statute of limitations
expired decades ago is misplaced because each new program plan constitutes a
distinct CEQA project requiring its own environmental analysis. 
 
This case is
distinguishable from Guerrero v. City of Los Angeles (2024) 89
Cal.App.5th 1087, where the statute of limitations did not restart because a
mitigated negative declaration and Notice of Determination already had been
issued. There, the court found that the City's March 25, 2020 NOD triggered
CEQA’s 30-day statute of limitations for challenging the validity of the MND. (Guerrero,
supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at 1104.) “‘For purposes of the CEQA
statutes of limitation, the question is not the substance of the agency's
decision, but whether the public was notified of that decision.’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he
posting of an NOD “alerts the public that any lawsuit to attack the noticed
action or decision on grounds it did not comply with CEQA must be mounted
immediately.”’ [Citation.]” (Id.) Objectors argued that the March 25,
2020 NOD was ineffective because it was filed before project approval, but the court
rejected this argument, concluding that the March 2020 approval of the vesting
tentative tract map constituted a valid project approval under CEQA. (Id.)

 
Here, no CEQA review
has been conducted for the 2023-2028 Program Plan or any prior program plans;
there is no prior environmental review on which to rely. The Court finds that Petitioner
timely filed the lawsuit within 180 days of the City of Long Beach’s approval
of the Plan, satisfying CEQA’s statutory requirements.
 
2.   
Laches
 
The Court finds that the
doctrine of laches does not apply. There was no unreasonable delay, and
Respondents face no legitimate prejudice. Petitioner’s challenge is timely,
narrowly focused, and validly seeks compliance with CEQA for the 2023-2028
Program Plan. Petitioner has demonstrated that the lawsuit specifically targets
the 2023-2028 Program Plan, not earlier approvals or prior program plans. Petitioner
filed its challenge within 180 days of the City of Long Beach’s approval of the
Plan, complying with CEQA’s statutory requirements and demonstrating no
unreasonable delay. 
 
The Court also finds
that there was no appreciable delay in filing the lawsuit. Here, Petitioner
filed on September 14, 2023, well within CEQA’s allowable timeline, which
satisfies all statutory obligations. Respondents’ claims of prejudice due to
the potential invalidation of decades-old investments are unfounded. Petitioner
does not seek to invalidate existing investments or prior approvals, but
requests only proper CEQA review of the 2023-2028 Program Plan. Since CEQA does
not retroactively impact prior activities, Respondents’ arguments regarding
prejudice lack merit.
 
E.  
Remedy
 
Respondents and Real
Parties contend that the injunction sought by Petitioner would shut down the
LBU’s operations. They argue that oil production at the LBU is mandated by
state law. Shutting down operations would directly conflict with this statutory
obligation. Respondents say that Petitioner fails to cite any law or legal
justification supporting its extreme request to halt LBU operations. CEQA
remedies are explicitly limited to what is “necessary to achieve compliance” (14
Cal. Code Reg., § 21168.9(b)); Respondents and Real Parties argue that the
relief sought far exceeds this standard. They emphasize that an unchallenged
program plan (2021-2026) remains in place, which would continue to govern
operations for the next two years, undermining any claim of urgency or
justification for immediate injunctive relief. Halting LBU operations, they
argue, would have severe economic and practical consequences, including the
loss of jobs, the elimination of local oil production relied upon by millions
of Californians, and the disappearance of nearly $100 million in annual state
revenue and $20 million for Long Beach.
 
In Nat. Res. Def.
Council v. City of Los Angeles (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 1176, 1237, the court
held that CEQA allows courts to suspend project activities that could result in
adverse changes to the environment or prejudice future implementation of
mitigation measures while agencies work to correct CEQA violations. (Id.
at 1238.) The court explained that under CEQA, when violations are found, a
trial court has broad discretion to craft remedies using one or more of the
options provided in section 21168.9, including voiding approvals, suspending
project activities, or directing agencies to take specific actions necessary to
comply with CEQA (§ 21168.9(a)(1)-(3)). (Id. at 1237-1238.) Additionally,
section 21168.9(c) preserves the court’s traditional equitable powers, allowing
flexibility to ensure compliance with CEQA while balancing environmental
protection. (Id.) 
 
As discussed above, the
Petition in this case challenges only the 2023-2028 Program Plan. It seeks to
set aside approval of that Plan, and to enjoin activities described in it until
the requirements of CEQA have been satisfied. The Court will set aside that
approval and enjoin only new activities described in the 2023-2028 Program Plan.
The injunction will not extend to operations authorized under the unchallenged
2021-2026 Program Plan. The 2021-2026 Plan will continue to govern LBU
operations until a CEQA-compliant new Program Plan is adopted.
 
Suspending new
activities described in the 2023-2028 Program Plan until CEQA compliance is achieved
is narrowly tailored and consistent with CEQA’s environmental protection goals.
Operations under the 2021-2026 Program Plan – a Plan not challenged in this
lawsuit – remain unaffected. 
 


