 Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
RODOLFO
  GARCIA-ROSAS, et al.


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




ARCHITECTURAL
  SURFACES, INC., et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January
13, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion: Motion to
Compel Juan Miguel Morales’ and Jose Saul Lopez’s Depositions and Document
Production and Request for Sanctions 
Moving Party: Defendants Caesarstone
USA, Inc., and Caesarstone Ltd.
Responding Party: Unopposed 
 
T/R: The Motion to
Compel Depositions of Juan Miguel Morales and Jose Saul Lopez and Document
Production is GRANTED. The depositions are to take place within 20
days of this order. The Court does not award sanctions.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023,
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended
complaint against several defendants including Caesarstone  USA, Inc., and Caesarstone Ltd.
(collectively, Defendants), asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability – design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium. Garcia-Rosas (Plaintiff) alleges he developed silicosis and
consequential injuries through his employment working with stone products
manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
Before the Court is
Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Juan Miguel Morales’ and Jose Saul Lopez’s Depositions and Document
Production and Request for Sanctions (the Motion). The Motion is unopposed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A motion lies to compel deposition
attendance and document production, after service of a deposition notice, where
a deponent fails to appear at, or proceed with, a deposition, without having
served a valid objection. (Code Civ. Proc. §2025.450(a).) No meet and confer is
required to compel initial deposition attendance, but instead there must be a
declaration showing that moving party inquired about the nonappearance. (Code
Civ. Proc. §2025.450(b)(2).)   
 
“Implicit in the requirement that
counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a
requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith
attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko v.
Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109,
1124. (“Leko”) See also
L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26, Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be given to
accommodating schedules in setting depositions).)  
 
            Plaintiff alleges he was exposed to
products that could cause silicosis while working at Ixoye Marble and Granite
Fabrication Shop with the shop’s owner Jose Lopez.  Plaintiff also alleges he was exposed to
similar silicosis-causing products manufactured by Defendants while working at
Morales Marble. On November 15, 2024, Defendant Francini Inc., served Lopez –
who is unrepresented – with a subpoena for his deposition and production of
documents. The deposition was to be held on November 25, 2024. Morales was
served by Defendant Arizona Tile LLC with a notice of deposition for December
4, 2024. Defendants joined both depositions. Neither Lopez nor Morales appeared
for their scheduled depositions. Lopez did not provide a reason for his
non-appearance. Counsel for Morales, informed Defense counsel that Morales was
no longer in contact with them.
 
            The motions to compel are granted.
The Court declines to award sanctions, because the moving papers fail to
provide calculations for the amount requested. 
 
 