 Case Number:  22STCV21861    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Friday, October 13,
2023
Case Name:                             Nancy Mejia, et
al. v. Urban Neighborhood Los Angeles, LLC.,et al.
Case No.:                                22STCV21861
Motion:                                  Petition to
Confirm Minor’s Compromise
Moving Party:                         Petitioner Nancy Mejia
Responding Party:                  None
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Petition
to Confirm Minor’s Compromise is GRANTED.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.

 

 
This
is a lawsuit in which Plaintiff Sophia Bautista, a minor, along with others allege
that were subjected to uninhabitable conditions including, but not limited to:
severe rodent infestation, lack of adequate plumbing facilities, broken
fixtures, and lack of adequate flooring and structural maintenance. Plaintiffs allege
they notified Defendants Urban Neighborhood Loss Angeles, LLC and Property
Management Associates, Inc. of the uninhabitable conditions and the issues were
not resolved. Plaintiffs claim to have suffered mental and emotional damages.
Court
approval is required for all settlements of a minor’s claim. (Probate Code
3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of Civ. Proc. 372.) The Court has reviewed the
proposed settlement and
finds
that it is fair and reasonable. 
The
total settlement value of this case is $135,000.00. The present value of the
settlement relative to Claimant is $10,000.00. Disbursement of the $135,000.00
settlement is as follows: 
·      $125,000.00
for the claims of adult Plaintiffs Nancy Mejia, Ernestina Villaneda, and
Jennifer Ayala; and 
·      $10,000.00
for the claims of minor Plaintiff Sophia Bautista.
Claimant’s
counsel also represents the remaining plaintiffs in the case to which this
Petition pertains. Petitioner is Claimant’s mother and is also a plaintiff in
the instant action. As mother of the minor plaintiff in this action, Petitioner
states that she wants to provide a much better home and environment for her
family. Petitioner seeks a large percentage of the settlement in order to move
into a better place - one where they can all safely and happily live. The Court
finds that the fact that Petitioner is a plaintiff in the same action as
Claimant does not likely materially affect Claimant’s compromise of claim.
The
Court also finds the requested attorneys’ fees of 25% of the settlement to be
fair and reasonable. (Attachment 13a, Lloreda, Jr. Decl.; Attachment 17a,
Attorney-Client Fee Arrangment) 
In
light of the foregoing, the Petition to Approve Minor’s Compromise is granted.
Per
California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at
the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance. The
Court finds that
Claimant’s
appearance is not necessary, but will require Petitioner Nancy Mejia to appear.
            Moving party to give notice. 
 
