 Case Number:  23AHCP00478    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SEAN E. ROGERS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PASACA
   CAPITAL, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCP00478
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: RESPONDENT’S MOTION FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August 6,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 7, 2024, the petition for writ
of mandate brought by Sean E. Rogers (“Petitioner”) was heard and granted in
part. The Court ordered respondent Pasaca Capital, Inc. (“Pasaca”) to allow
Petitioner to inspect and copy certain corporate records (“June 7 Order”). 
On June 24, 2024, Pasaca filed this
motion for a stay of proceedings pending the appeal of the June 7 Order. Petitioner
filed an opposition brief on July 8, 2024. In the opposition brief, Petitioner
noted that he would file a supplemental declaration but that counsel was unable
to obtain Petitioner’s signature prior to the filing date of the opposition
brief because of the July 4th holiday weekend. 
Pasaca filed a reply brief on July 15,
2024. 
On July 25, 2024, Petitioner lodged conditionally
under seal a supplemental declaration which attached a copy of a stock
redemption agreement executed between Pasaca and its former CEO as Exhibit A. On
August 5, 2024, Pasaca filed an ex parte application to strike Petitioner’s
supplemental declaration on the grounds that it is inexcusably untimely and irrelevant.
Pasaca also filed a motion to seal the unredacted supplemental declaration and
the redemption agreement. 
The supplemental declaration was filed
17 days after Petitioner’s opposition brief but Petitioner offers no reason for
the untimeliness of this filing. Accordingly, the Court, in its discretion,
refuses to consider it. (CRC 3.1300, subd. (d).) 
Pasaca moves for an order pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 918.5, but the applicable statute appears to be
section 918 because 918.5 only applies to stays where a judgment debtor has
another action pending on a disputed claim against a judgment creditor. The
Court thus treats this motion as one brought under section 918, which provides
the trial judge with the discretion to “stay the enforcement of any judgment or
order, whether or not an appeal will be taken and whether or not a notice of
appeal has been filed.” (C.C.P. 918(a), (c).) 
Pasaca moves for an order staying
enforcement of the June 7 Order pending the resolution of its anticipated
appeal. Pasaca argues it will be irreparably harmed due to the nature of the
June 7 Order if Petitioner accesses sensitive information to which the court of
appeal later determines he has no right. Pasaca also argues that a stay should
be issued in this action to prevent Petitioner from “attempting to use Pasaca’s
financial records against Pasaca in [a] separate legal proceeding.” (Motion,
pp. 10-11.)       
Pasaca states that it is amenable to
stipulating to an expedited briefing schedule on a priority basis with the
Court of Appeal in order to mitigate any prejudice that could result from a
stay. 
Pasaca’s arguments are persuasive. The
June 7 Order dealt with a novel issue of unsettled law and if Petitioner were
able to access records he would not otherwise have had access to under Nevada
Law, it would render Pasaca’s appeal effectively useless.  Petitioner’s claims of prejudice are
unsubstantiated and do not address the fact that Pasaca has agreed to an
expedited briefing process. Petitioner also offers no legal authority for his
request that Pasaca post an undertaking. Accordingly, the motion for a stay is
GRANTED. 
Dated
this 6th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 