  Case Number:  21STCV19641    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



IVAN CERVANTES, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUNBELT
   RENTALS, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STCV19641
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August 6,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On April 5, 2024, defendant Sunbelt
Rentals, Inc. (“Sunbelt”) filed a motion for an order compelling plaintiff Ivan
Cervantes (“Plaintiff”) to serve further responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set Two, Nos. 80, 83, 86, 89, 92, and 95. Sunbelt also requested an order
imposing monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel in the amount of
$5,440. On May 14, 2024, the Court granted Sunbelt’s motion and imposed
sanctions. 
Plaintiff served further responses on May
17, 2024. On July 10, 2024, Sunbelt filed this motion for issue and evidentiary
sanctions or, in the alternative, for an order compelling further responses to
Special Interrogatory Nos. 80, 83, 86, 89, and 92. Sunbelt also requests an
award of monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,645. 
The discovery requests at issue ask
Plaintiff to state “all facts” supporting certain aspects of his Third Cause of
Action for negligence against Junior Steel Company (“JSC”). Special
Interrogatory Nos. 83 and 86 request Plaintiff to state all facts supporting the
claims that JSC had a duty to inspect the forklift and jib extension and ensure
they were properly attached and secured, and that JSC had to a duty to ensure
the forklift and jib extension were safe and ready to use. Special Interrogatory
Nos. 89 and 92 request that Plaintiff state all facts to support his contention
that he relied on the expertise and training of JSC’s personnel to inspect and
determine whether the jib extension and forklift were attached, secured, safe,
and ready to use. Plaintiff’s further response to these five interrogatories
was identical: 
When Defendant Sunbelt Rentals, Inc.
(“Sunbelt”) delivered a forklift to the jobsite where Plaintiff Ivan Cervantes
was working, Sunbelt failed to secure the jib extension to its forklift at the required
three points of securement. Plaintiff’s Third Cause of action for Negligence is
based on a “theory that Plaintiff’s employer Junior Steel Company had a duty to
inspect the forklift that Sunbelt had delivered. Such an inspection, had Junior
Steel employed someone with the expertise to conduct one, could have determined
that Sunbelt had negligently delivered the forklift in a
dangerous, partially assembled matter.
At the time Plaintiff filed his cause of action against Junior Steel, he had a
good-faith belief that the evidence adduced in discovery would show that 1)
Junior Steel had personnel with the ability to conduct such an inspection
on duty, and 2) that expert and
non-expert testimony would establish that Junior Steel could not rely on
Sunbelt performing its work in a safe and professional fashion. Because
Plaintiff dismissed this cause of action, he has not conducted the discovery that
would establish these facts one way or the other. In any event,
it is for the jury to determine whether
Junior Steel was negligent and to what extent their actions contributed to
Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
(Trowbridge Decl., Ex. M.) 
Sunbelt argues that this response
remains evasive because Plaintiff filed the claim alleging JSC was liable after
deposing JSC’s employees in 2022.  (Trowbridge Decl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiff also
served written discovery on JSC on or about February 2, 2022. (Trowbridge
Decl., ¶ 27.) Therefore, the “anticipated” discovery referred to in Plaintiff’s
further responses appears to be a pretense to avoid providing a more detailed
answer. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
this motion is untimely, which the Court briefly addresses. Sunbelt’s motion to
compel was initially due on July 3, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel granted Sunbelt a
week extension to file its motion to compel, making the deadline July 10, 2024.
 Therefore, Sunbelt’s motion, which was
filed on July 10, 2024, is timely.
Plaintiff also argues that its
responses are Code-compliant because he cannot be forced to identify specific witnesses
which support a contention. Plaintiff relies on a case which held that a party
could not be compelled to identify which percipient witnesses would be called
at trial because such information was work product. (City of Long Beach v.
Superior Court (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 65, 73.) This is not an analogous
situation because Plaintiff is not being asked to identify witnesses at trial,
but to identify the facts underlying his allegations regarding JSC’s purported obligations.
The Court separately adds that Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 provides
that by presenting a pleading to the court, an attorney “is certifying that to
the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an
inquiry reasonable under all the circumstances,” that “[t]he allegations and
other factual contentions have evidentiary support.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subd.(b)(3).) Therefore, there must be some reasoning behind Plaintiff’s
decision to file an amended complaint with a cause of action against JSC. 
The Court therefore GRANTS Sunbelt’s
motion and affords Plaintiff one more opportunity to supplement his responses
to Special Interrogatory Nos. 80, 83, 86, 89, and 92. The Court imposes
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,440, consisting of 6 hours at defense
counsel’s hourly rate of $230 and a $60 filing fee. Further responses are to be
served and sanctions are to be paid within 10 days of the date of this Order. Subsequent
failure to provide supplemental responses may result in issue or evidentiary
sanctions regarding Plaintiff’s reliance on JSC’s employees to inspect or
ensure that forklift and jib extension were safe to use, although the Court
notes that such a sanction would not preclude Plaintiff from proving at trial that
Sunbelt was also negligent. 
 
Dated
this 6th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 