 Case Number:  21STCV47525    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GERALD WACHEL, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
TY LABBE,
  et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV47525
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS TY LABBE AND LIZA GONZALEZ’S MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   6, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
This action was filed by plaintiffs
Gerald Wachel (“Mr. Wachel”) and Gina Wachel (“Ms. Wachel”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) on December 30, 2021. Plaintiffs filed the operative Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on April 14, 2023. Defendants Ty Labbe (“Mr. Labbe”)
and Liza Gonzalez (“Ms. Gonzalez”) (collectively, “Defendants”) bring this
motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) as to Ms. Wachel, Plaintiffs’ Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action for Defamation, and Plaintiffs’ Sixth Cause of
Action for Negligence Per Se.  
II.         
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs and Defendants are next-door
neighbors, sharing a common property boundary line. (Defendants’ Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 1.) On January 8, 2021, Mr. Wachel opened his garage
door from his car using a remote electronic device and his cat, Kale, ran out. (UMF
Nos. 2-3.) At the time, Mr. Labbe and his son, Ty Labbe, Jr., were in their
driveway with their pit bull, Lucy. (UMF No. 4.) Lucy ran and chased Kale. (UMF
No. 4.) Mr. Wachel then kicked Lucy to get her to release Kale. (UMF No. 5.)
Mr. Labbe and Mr. Wachel then became engaged in a heated verbal argument during
which Mr. Labbe stated that he thought Mr. Wachel was a pedophile “spying on
little boys and girls.” (UMF No. 8.) Months later, on or around April 8, 2021, Mr.
Labbe filed a police report accusing Mr. Wachel of poisoning Lucy. (UMF No.
29.)   
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once
the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . .
. to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
IV.       
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
The Court declines to rule on
Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the Declarations of Gina Wachel and
Gerald Wachel because the evidence objected to was not material to the
disposition of this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
V.         
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Second
Cause of Action for IIED
An IIED claim includes the following
elements: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct. (Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) “Conduct to be outrageous
must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
“It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be
conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of
whom the defendant is aware.” (Ibid.)

Plaintiffs allege as part of their
second cause of action for IIED that Defendants intended to cause them
emotional distress, or acted with a reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress, by “scream[ing] in the face of the [Plaintiffs]”,
calling Mr. Wachel a pedophile in public while neighbors were within earshot,
and threatening them with physical harm. 
Defendants argue that summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for IIED as to Ms. Wachel is
appropriate because her emotional distress did not result from any outrageous
conduct and Ms. Wachel’s emotional distress was caused by events which
Defendants had no control over. (Motion, pp. 8-9.) Defendants emphasize that
Ms. Wachel was not present during the verbal altercation between Mr. Wachel and
Mr. Labbe on January 8, 2021, and had only watched a video of the events. Therefore,
Mr. Labbe did not engage in conduct that was directed towards Ms. Wachel on
January 8, 2021.
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
fail to address the TAC’s allegations that after January 8, 2021, Mr. Labbe
filed false police reports against Plaintiffs and “took affirmative action to
encourage the [wrongful] prosecution of [Plaintiffs].” (TAC, ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs
allege that as a result of Defendants’ actions, the Los Angeles County District
Attorney filed criminal charges against Plaintiffs on March 12, 2021. (TAC, ¶
35.)  Although these factual allegations
are “incorporated” into the Second Cause of Action using boilerplate language, the
TAC does not allege that these false police reports were intended to cause
emotional distress. Instead, the Second Cause of Action only alleges that
“Defendants intended to cause the Wachels emotional distress by screaming
loudly that Mr. Gerald Wachel was a pedophile and by threatening to harm the
Wachels.” Therefore, Plaintiffs fail to raise a triable issue of fact to show
that the alleged conduct was intentionally “directed” towards Ms. Wachel. 
Accordingly, the motion for summary
adjudication of the Second Cause of Action for IIED as to Ms. Wachel is
GRANTED. 
B.  
Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action for Defamation
Defamation is the intentional
publication of a statement of fact that is false, unprivileged and has a
natural tendency to injure or cause special damages. (Grenier v. Taylor (2015) 34 Cal.App.4th 471, 486). Rhetorical
hyperbole, vigorous epithets, lusty and imaginative expressions of contempt and
language used in a loose, figurative sense will not support a defamation
action, “[f]alse statements that accuse the plaintiff of criminal conduct are
defamatory on their face.” (Ibid.) Whether
a published statement is actionable fact or nonactionable opinion is to be
decided by the court as a matter of law. (Baker
v. Los Angeles Herald Examiner (1986) 42 Cal.3d 254, 260.) 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that Mr. Labbe
is liable for defamation because he called Mr. Wachel a pedophile while Defendants
argue that Mr. Labbe’s description of Mr. Wachel as a pedophile was mere
opinion made in the middle of a heated exchange. The statements made by Mr.
Labbe on January 8, 2021, included: “Matter of fact, why don’t you get your
camera out of my yard. It’s kind of creepy. It’s disturbing.” (UMF No. 8.) When
Mr. Wachel replied, “Oh well”, Mr. Labbe said, “It’s disturbing. I think you
are a pedophile.” (Id.) Mr. Labbe followed up by saying, “Yes, spying on
little boys and girls.” (Id.) Based on the totality of their
interaction, Mr. Labbe and Mr. Wachel were obviously engaged in “mudslinging”
and exchanging insults, but loudly claiming that someone is a pedophile serves
as an insult when it is meant to be a statement of fact. 
Therefore, Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication of the Fourth Cause of Action is DENIED. 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs’
defamation claim fails insofar as they are predicated on statements made to the
La Verne Police Department because those reports are privileged publications. A
privileged publication or broadcast is one made “[i]n any (1) legislative
proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding
authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding
authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
1084) of Title 1 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure”, subject to a few
exceptions. (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b).) Any communication between a person
and a law enforcement agency is not privileged if it is one “in which the
person makes a false report that another person has committed, or is in the act
of committing, a criminal act or is engaged in an activity requiring law
enforcement intervention, knowing that the report is false, or with reckless
disregard for the truth or falsity of the report.” (Civ. Code, § 47, subd.
(b)(4).) Where the facts and circumstances under which a defamatory publication
is made are not disputed, the question of privilege is one of law. (Swaffield v. Universal Ecsco Corp.
(1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 147, 163.) 
Here, Mr. Labbe filed a police report
on April 8, 2021, after suspecting that Mr. Wachel poisoned Lucy. Defendants
argue that their police report was privileged because they had valid suspicions.
Mr. Labbe declares that he believed that Lucy had been poisoned because she was
acting lethargic and Defendants found green pellets in their backyard near a
common wall with Plaintiffs. (Labbe Decl., ¶ 6.) There is no evidence that the
green pellets were actually poison. Also, there is no evidence that Mr. Labbe
knew Lucy had ingested the pellets before making the report. Mr. Labbe actually
made the report before he had even taken Lucy to the veterinarian for care. Therefore,
the Court concludes that the statement made to the police about poisoning Lucy
was made in reckless disregard especially given that the detective Mr. Labbe
contacted was the detective assigned to another case in which Mr. Wachel was
accused of committing animal cruelty against Lucy. Accordingly, the statements
made by Mr. Labbe to the police about Lucy being poisoned are not privileged. The
motion for summary adjudication of the Fifth Cause of Action is DENIED. 
C.  
Sixth
Cause of Action for Negligence Per Se 
Last,
Defendants move for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ Sixth Cause of Action
for negligence per se. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants violated Civil Code
section 3342. (TAC, ¶ 79.) 
In
Plaintiffs’ opposition brief, they withdraw the Sixth Cause of Action. (Opp.,
p. 3, n. 1.) Therefore, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the
Sixth Cause of Action is GRANTED.  
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary adjudication as to the Fourth and Fifth
Causes of Action is DENIED. The motion for summary adjudication as to the
Second and Sixth Causes of Action is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 6th
day of August
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 