This is a dispute relating to renovations to a duplex.  On February 20, 2020, Whitestone Builders, Inc. (“Whitestone”) filed a Complaint against Valerie Taylor and Derek Taylor for (1) breach of contract, (2) account stated, (3) common count, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5) foreclosure on mechanic’s lien.On July 6, 2022, Valerie Taylor and Derek Taylor filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against Cross-Defendants Whitestone, Pier Pjerin Prenga, and Suretec Indemnity Company for (1) disgorgement; (2) rescission and restitution—violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 7159; (3) rescission and restitution—contract void for illegality; (4) declaratory relief; (5) breach of written contract; (6) negligence; (7) fraud; and (8) contractor’s license bond.On August 18, 2023, Whitestone filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).On November 7, 2023, the Court granted the motion for summary adjudication of Whitestone and Prenga as to the Taylors’ disgorgement claim.A non-jury trial is scheduled to commence today, January 13, 2025.The Taylors now seek to compel Whitestone and Prenga to bring documents about their financial condition to trial for the purposes of punitive damages.The request on Prenga is as follows: (1) the most recent bank statement for each account held in your name; (2) the most recent statement for your E*Trade account; (3) the most recent appraisal for the real property located at 1964 Park Grove Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90007; (4) the most recent statement for each mortgage for the real property located at 1964 Park Grove Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90007; and (5) the contract for your purchase of the real property located at 1964 Park Grove Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90007.The request on Whitestone is as follows: (1) The original notebook containing handwritten notes re Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s claimed labor costs, a portion of which has been produced as WSB00708 through WSB00710. If the entire notebook is not available, the originals of the pages produced as WSB00708 through WSB00710 are to be produced; (2) Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s most recent balance sheet; (3) Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s most recent profit and loss statement; (4) Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s most recent bank statements for each account held in Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s name; (5) Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s most recent bank statement for the Chase bank account ending in 7973; (6) Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s most recent bank statement for the Chase bank account ending in 9128; and (7) Whitestone Builders, Inc.’s most recent bank statement for the Chase bank account ending in 5719. Whitestone and Prenga have objected based on privacy, prematurity, and lack of particularity.  The party on whom a notice to produce is served may challenge it by serving written objections to the notice within 5 days after service or such other period as the judge may allow. The written objections must include a statement of the grounds for objection.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987(c).)Once objections are served, the burden is on the party who served the notice to file a motion for production of the items specified in the notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987(c).)  The motion must be accompanied by a showing of (1) good cause, and (2) the materiality of the items sought to the issues in the case.  A judge may order production unless the objecting party establishes good cause for nonproduction or production under limitations or conditions.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987(c).) All documents, except the request for the complete “notebook”, are valid and relevant to financial condition for the purposes of punitive damages.  Notably, as the Motions request, these documents need not be produced until the Court determines that Whitestone/Prenga engaged in malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent conduct.The complete notebook need not be produced at all.  The Taylors seek the notebook to determine if there are different ink colors therein; however, Whitestone has apparently already produced color copies.  Further, the full notebook will not be produced merely because it might somehow be relevant to credibility; the Taylors appear to be attempting to resurrect their lost disgorgement claim.In sum, the Motion as to Prenga is granted.  The Motion as to Whitestone is granted in part—all documents, except the complete notebook, are subject to production should the issue of financial condition become necessary for trial.Moving party to give notice.