  Case Number:  19STCV46869    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



HELEN LEE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RAY ZHIPING CAI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV46869
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO VACATE
  AND SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT AND RECALL AND QUASH WRIT OF
  EXECUTION, AND RETURN OF PROPERTY LEVIED UPON 
 
Date: 
  May 31, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING PARTY:
Plaintiff
RESPONDING PARTY:
Defendant Jie Yan aka Charlene Yan
 
The Court has
reviewed the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
On December 30,
2019, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging: (1) breach of
written promissory note; (2) common count-money lent; (3) common count- money
paid, laid out and expended; (4) breach of personal guaranty; (5) false
promise; (6) intentional misrepresentation; (7) negligent misrepresentation;
(8) aiding and abetting; (9) violation of California Business & Professions
Code section 17200; (10) unjust enrichment; and (11) constructive trust.
 
On November 19,
2020, the Court entered default judgment in the amount of $508,309.18 against
Defendants (the “Judgment”). 
 
On January 24,
2024, Defendant Charlene Yan aka Jie Yan filed the instant motion (the “Motion”)
to vacate and set aside default and default judgment and recall and quash a writ
of execution, and for return of property upon which Plaintiff has levied. On
May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion and on May 24, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections to Jen and Chang Declarations:
            SUSTAINED:
1, 2, 3
            OVERRULED:
None 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
“The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect…  [The application]
shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after
the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  CCP § 473(b). 
 
Although a trial
court has discretion to vacate the entry of a default or subsequent judgment,
this discretion may be exercised only after the party seeking relief has shown
that there is a proper ground for relief, and that the party has raised that
ground in a procedurally proper manner, within any applicable time limits.” (Cruz
v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) “The defendant
must … demonstrate a satisfactory excuse for not responding to the original
action in a timely manner.” (Id. at 504.) Moving parties have the
initial burden to prove excusable neglect by a preponderance of competent
evidence. (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 619, 624.)   
 
CCP § 473(d)
provides in relevant part that “[t]he court may, upon motion of the injured
party…set aside any void judgment or order.” (CCP § 473(d) [no time limit].)
 
CCP section 473.5
permits the Court to set aside a default and default judgment when the service
of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action. ¿CCP section 473.5 requires the motion to be accompanied by an
affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to
defend the action was not caused by the party’s avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect. ¿The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of the following: 
1)
two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or  
2)
180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or
default judgment has been entered. ¿ 
 


 
Analysis
Defendant moves
for an order vacating and setting aside the default entered against her on
April 3, 2020 and the default judgment entered against her on January 26, 2022
on the grounds that the Proof of Service of Summons was defective and did not
result in actual notice to Defendant. Defendant points out that the process
server claimed to have delivered the Summons and Complaint to Catherine Lou,
the Office Administrator of MCSEN Realty Corp., at 400 Spectrum Center, Suite
1550, Irvine, CA, on January 16, 2020, Defendant claims to have never worked at
MCSEN Realty Corp., and that this address is neither her office nor her usual
mailing address. Therefore, she concludes the service of process is invalid and
does not meet the statutory requirements. Defendant also argues that the
default judgment is void due to lack of valid service of summons, as the proof
of service falsely claims the documents were served at an address that is not
Defendant’s office or usual mailing address. Furthermore, Defendant asserts
that she did not receive actual notice of the lawsuit in time to defend the
action. Defendant claims she was recently notified through another attorney
about the amended judgment and promptly retained counsel to assert her
defenses. Lastly, Defendant argues that any writ or abstract of judgment issued
based on the default judgment should be recalled and quashed if the judgment is
vacated. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant's Motion to set aside the default and default judgment is
untimely and should be denied because it fails to comply with the statutory
time limitations pursuant to CCP § 473 which requires such motions to be made
within six months of the judgment. The original judgment was entered on
November 19, 2020, and Defendant’s Motion was filed on January 24, 2024, well
beyond the six-month limit. Even considering the amended judgment on January
26, 2022, Plaintiff claims the Motion is still untimely, as it was filed 18
months after the deadline. Additionally, Plaintiff contends that Defendant
failed to file the Motion within a reasonable period of time as required by CCP
§ 473.5 as the motion should have been filed within two years after the entry
of the default judgment or within 180 days after service of written notice of
the judgment. Here, Defendant filed the Motion over three years after the
original judgment and well past the statutory deadline. Moreover, Plaintiff
points out that Defendant had actual notice of the judgment as her accounts
were levied in 2022, making the Motion even more untimely.
 
Notwithstanding, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant cannot rebut the presumption of valid service of process
as Defendant has not provided sufficient evidence to rebut the presumption of
proper service as the service was carried out at MCSEN Realty Corp., and
Defendant has not demonstrated any extrinsic fraud or mistake. Plaintiff also
argues that the demand to quash any writ, abstract, and return of levied
property is without merit and not ripe as the judgment is still valid and
enforceable, and the request for the return of levied property is premature given
the fact that the underlying issue regarding the motion to set aside the
judgment has not yet been resolved. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s delay in
filing the motion has caused significant prejudice, as it has been nearly four
years since the original judgment, and evidence and witnesses may no longer be
available.
 
In reply, Defendant
argues that the Summons and Complaint were not served at her office, usual
place of business, or mailing address, thus invalidating the service, and Plaintiff
failed to prove that Defendant’s office was at MCSEN Realty Corp., 400 Spectrum
Center, Suite 1550, Irvine, CA, when the Summons and Complaint were served. Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff’s evidence, consisting of the judgment entered, proof of
service and printouts from McSen Realty’s websites, do not establish that
Defendant had actual notice or that the service location was her usual business
address. Instead, Defendant claims service was made at a place associated with
her then-separated husband’s business, not her own. Further, Defendant asserts
that Plaintiff's reliance on inadmissible evidence, such as Facebook and
business website printouts, does not prove proper service. Defendant highlights
that she was never personally served, and Plaintiff opted for substituted
service at a location where Defendant had no business operations. 
 
Additionally,
Defendant argues that her Motion to set aside the default judgment is timely
under CCP § 473(d), which allows void judgments to be set aside at any time.
Defendant contends that the judgment is void due to improper service, and her
motion falls within the two-year time limit from when she became aware of the
Amended Judgment in January 2024. She emphasizes that she never received the
Summons and Complaint and only became aware of the judgment through her
attorney in January 2024. Defendant also challenges Plaintiff’s assertion of
untimeliness based on CCP § 473(b), stating that her motion is based on CCP §
473(d), which provides for setting aside void judgments. Defendant points out
that Plaintiff’s evidence does not demonstrate valid service or actual notice.
Despite Plaintiff’s claims, Defendant did not have an office or mailing address
at the service location and did not receive mail there. Defendant explains that
she was a licensed real estate agent working from home and not associated with
MCSEN Realty Corp. when the Summons and Complaint were served. Thus, Plaintiff’s
attempt to show proper service through substituted service at a business
location linked to Defendant’s separated husband is flawed. 
 
As to timeliness,
the Court finds that the Motion may be considered timely under CCP § 473(d),
which allows the Court to set aside void judgments at any time. A judgment may
be void due to improper service. Thus, the Court considers the parties’
arguments on the merits. 
 
The proof of
service shows that Defendant was served by substituted service on January 16,
2020 by a registered server at 400 Spectrum Center Ste 1550, Irvine, CA 92618. This
sworn proof of service by a registered server creates a rebuttable presumption
of proper service. Defendant fails to rebut this presumption as she does not provide sufficient evidence
establishing that 400 Spectrum Center Ste 1550, Irvine, CA 92618 is not her address or place of business. The
only evidence Defendant provides is a declaration under penalty of perjury that
she had no position with MCSEN Realty Corp and did not participate in that
business, and that she became aware of the amended judgment when she was
notified by her attorney. (Yan Decl. ¶¶ 14, 17.) On the other hand, the
declaration of diligence for the proof of service shows that the process server
spoke to Catherine Lou, the office administrator, who indicated that Defendant
was not in at those times. (Jen Decl. ¶ 4, Exhib. B.) If Defendant truly did
not work at MCSEN, then it is unlikely that Ms. Lou would indicate that
Defendant was not “in,” but rather would state that no such person worked
there. Defendant asserts that Ms. Lou knew Defendant through her husband. If
so, it is reasonable to assume that Defendant did receive actual notice prior
to January 26, 2022. Further, while exhibits C, D and F to the Jen Declaration
have not been properly authenticated, the Court may rely on Exhibit E, which
has not been objected to, and which shows that the responsible broker for
Defendant is MCSEN Realty Corp and indicates that Defendant was in fact associated
with that corporation. 
 
Accordingly, the
Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion to Vacate/Set Aside.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
         Dated this 31st day of May
2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 


 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



HELEN LEE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RAY ZHIPING CAI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV46869
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR
  ASSIGNMENT ORDER 
 
Date: 
  May 31, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING PARTY:
Plaintiff
RESPONDING PARTY:
Defendant Jie Yan aka Charlene Yan
 
The Court has
reviewed the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
On December 30,
2019, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging: (1) breach of
written promissory note; (2) common count-money lent; (3) common count- money
paid, laid out and expended; (4) breach of personal guaranty; (5) false
promise; (6) intentional misrepresentation; (7) negligent misrepresentation;
(8) aiding and abetting; (9) violation of California Business & Professions
Code section 17200; (10) unjust enrichment; and (11) constructive trust.
 
On November 19,
2020, the Court entered default judgment in the amount of $508,309.18 against
Defendants (the “Judgment”). 
 
On February 16,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for an assignment order (the “Motion”) directing
Charlene Yan aka Jie Yan aka Jie E. Yan aka Cecilia Yan (“Judgment Debtor”),
and any of third-party obligors to assign any to the Judgment Creditor,
Judgment Debtor’s rights to payment due from the subject lawsuits and
litigation, to the extent necessary to fully pay and satisfy the judgment in
favor of Judgment Creditor, with all accrued interest and post-judgment costs in
order to satisfy the $663,364.54 of the Judgment, inclusive of post-judgment
interest, fees, costs and credits that remains unsatisfied. 
 
On March 14, 2024,
Defendant Jie Yan (also known as Charlene Yan) filed an opposition to the
Motion. On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to Judgment Debtor
Charlene Yan’s untimely response and supplemental declarations. 
 
DISCUSSION
CCP section
708.510, subdivision (a) states, in relevant part: Except as otherwise
provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion,
the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or
to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610)
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the
right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the
following types of payments: 
1.    
Wages due from the federal government that are not
subject to withholding under an earnings withholding order. 
2.    
Rents. 
3.    
Commissions. 
4.    
Royalties. 
5.    
Payments due from a patent or copyright. 
6.    
Insurance policy loan value. 
 
(CCP 708.510, subd. (a).) 
 
CCP section 708.510, subdivision (c) provides: In
determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an assignment
pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration all relevant
factors, including the following: 
1.    
The reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is
a natural person and of persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment
debtor.
2.    
Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or
that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments,
including earnings assignment orders for support.
3.    
The amount remaining due on the money judgment. 
4.    
 The amount being
or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be
assigned. 
5.    
 
(CCP § 708.510, subd. (c).) 
 
Under CCP section
708.510, subdivision (d), the court may order the assignment of property only
to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment.  (CCP § 708.510,
subd. (d).)  The motion must include sufficient facts to permit the court
to make a determination that the payment is assignable to the judgment
creditor.  (Kracht v. Perrin (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1019, 1023.)
 
In support of the
Motion, Plaintiff provides evidence that the principal of the Judgment remains
unsatisfied, and post-judgment interest, costs and fees have accrued.  (See Declaration of Jerry Jen (“Jen
Decl.”) ¶¶ 9-12.)  Plaintiff has learned
that Judgment Debtor is a plaintiff in a separate lawsuit (Jie “Charlene” Yan
v. Ruiying Liu, et. al. (Case # 30-2023-01321325-CU-BT-CJC), and that she is
also a judgment creditor of a civil judgment (Shino Jin v. Jie Yan, et. al.
(LASC Case # 23STCV13341). (Id. ¶¶ 4-5, Exhibs. B-C.)  Plaintiff has learned that Judgment Debtor is
related to, controls and/or serve as a director or officer, or has ownership
interest in numerous third-party entities, including the potential rights
payments and/or distributions of funds and assets from such third-party
lawsuits.  (Id. ¶¶ 6-9, Exhibs.
D-F.)  
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that the Court should deny Plaintiff’s Assignment
Application or stay the proceeding until a ruling is made on their Motion to
Set Aside the Default Judgment pursuant to CCP § 708.510, which allows the Court
to consider all relevant factors, including other payments or assignments the
judgment debtor is required to make. Defendant filed the Motion to Set Aside
the Default Judgment on January 24, 2024, challenging its validity on the
grounds that they were not served and thus had no notice of the Complaint. This
motion is scheduled to be heard on May 31, 2024. Defendant claims she received
the Assignment Application on March 12, 2024, via mail, but her counsel was not
served. Upon learning of the service, Defendant’s counsel promptly prepared an
Opposition and scheduled to appear at the hearing on March 18, 2024. 
 
It does not appear
that Plaintiff formally filed a reply, but filed an objection to Defendant’s
opposition (which Plaintiff refers to as a reply). Plaintiff objects on the
grounds that Defendant’s opposition is untimely, however, given that the
hearing date has been continued to May 31, 2024, the Court finds the opposition
to be timely filed. 
 
Plaintiff has
demonstrated a right to an assignment order to assign Judgment Creditor’s
payment rights to satisfy the Judgment. Further, given the Court’s denial of
Defendant’s motion to vacate/set aside, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s instant
motion for assignment order. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
         Dated this 31st day of May 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 
 
 
 