  Case Number:  18STCV10316    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 28, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: VACATED
                                                           
CASE:                         Sunderipal S. Arora v. Daljeet Singh, et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 18STCV10316            
 
MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Surinderipal S. Arora & Cross-Defendant
Sharanpreet K. Arora
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Daljeet
Singh & Gurpreet Bindra 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
12/28/18: Complaint filed.
·        
06/24/19: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/24/20: Cross-Complaint filed
·        
03/06/24: Dismissal with prejudice &
retention of jurisdiction pursuant to oral settlement before the Court
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This was an action for fraud and breach of contract arising from a
dispute between brothers concerning a buyout of a partnership for the
management of rental properties.
 
Plaintiff Surinderpal Arora &
Cross-Defendant Sharanpreet Arora move to enforce a settlement agreement executed
on February 20, 2024 in Court. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff & Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Enforce Settlement is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff Surinderpal Arora &
Cross-Defendant Sharanpreet Arora move to enforce a settlement agreement
executed on February 20, 2024 in Court. 
 
//
Legal Standard
 
            Enforcement
of settlement agreements is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.
This statute provides, in relevant part:
 
If the
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6(a).) The
Court is empowered under this section to resolve reasonable disputes over the
terms of a settlement. (Machado v. Myers (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 779,
795.) The Court does not insert provisions into the parties’ agreement, but
applies the rules of contractual interpretation to interpretation of the
settlement. (Id. at 792.) When extrinsic evidence is necessary, the
Court may decide the motion on declarations alone. (Richardson v. Richardson
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 91, 97.) 
 
Terms of Settlement
 
            On February
20, 2024, the parties reached a settlement of the entire case just before
commencement of a jury trial. (February 20, 2024 Minute Order.) The parties
retained a court reporter and read the settlement agreement into the record. (Id.)
The terms of the settlement as reflected in the transcript are as follows:
 
Daljeet Singh and
Gurpreet Bindra shall pay to Surinderpal Arora $175,000, plus an Equalizing
Payment as set forth herein, and according to the terms hereof.
 
The Equalization
Payment is the payment from Dr. Singh and Dr. Bindra to Mr. Arora in an amount
representing Mr. Arora's 50 percent equity interest in Leucadia property offset
by the amount of Dr. Singh and Dr. Bindra's equity interest in Browning. The Equalizing
Payment to Mr. Arora shall be determined by appraisals of both the Leucadia
property and the Browning property. The appraisals will be done according to
standard appraisal practices. The Appraiser is to be chosen by Sharon Dandy […]
The Parties are to split the cost of appraisals equally.
 
In addition to
payment of $ 175,000 and the Equalizing Payment, a partnership accounting will
be done as stated herein. The accounting is to determine monies into and out of
the partnership as to both sides, as well as an accounting of all income
received and all expenses incurred from July [2018] to present, defined as the
“Separated Period,” with a determination of what is owed to the respective
partners. Each side will exchange supporting documentation for the Separated
Period, including all bank statements, evidence of expenditures, and rents
received. The exchange will occur within 30 days of this date. Each side shall submit
a cash flow statement with information as to monies received and expended along
with their evidence to a neutral accountant to be selected by the parties. If
the parties cannot agree on the selection of an accountant, each side shall
select an accountant, and those two accountants will confer and choose a third
accountant to perform the work. The neutral accountant shall prepare a report
summarizing the information submitted by the parties. The neutral accountant
shall not make any factual determinations, but shall accept the information as
provided by the parties. Each party shall represent to the Court, the neutral
accountant and each other that their information is true and correct.
 
Payment shall be
made by the payor group holding in excess of 50 percent to bring the parties
into a 50/50 position. The accounting is solely for the purposes of determining
monies due to the partners from the partnership and is not to determine
partnership liability issues, as those issues [have] been waived by the
releases herein. 
 
Any disputes by the
parties as to the contents of the report shall be submitted to the Court for
resolution via briefing with all evidence submitted therewith, and a hearing
without live testimony will be held by the Court. If the Court declines to
engage in this process, the parties shall retain a private neutral to decide
the disputes.
 
Payment of the
amounts referenced above to be made within 60 days of determination of the
total payment amount.
 
Dr. Singh and Dr.
Bindra shall prepare a notarized Grant Deed representing Mr. Arora's 50%
interest of the Leucadia property as tenants in common and provide a copy of
that document to Mr. Arora, who will use that for a 1031 exchange. Eric P.
Francisconi or a member of his firm will retain the original, but will loan it
to Arora's counsel upon request, and it will be returned after used as
necessary. The Grant Deed will not be recorded. Upon tender of payment by Dr.
Singh and Dr. Bindra to Mr. Arora, directly or to an escrow holder at the
election of Mr. Arora, Mr. Arora may conduct an IRS 1031 exchange. Dr. Singh
and Dr. Bindra will cooperate with Mr. Arora's 1031 exchange at no cost or
obligation to them. Upon payment as set forth herein, Surinderpal Arora and
Sharanpreet Arora shall provide Dr. Singh and Dr. Bindra with a Grant Deed
conveying all of their right, title, and interest to the Leucadia property, at
which time Surinderpal Arora and Sharanpreet Arora shall have no further
interest in the Leucadia property.
 
Dr. Singh and Dr.
Bindra shall deliver to Surinderpal Arora and Sharanpreet Arora an executed
Grant Deed conveying all of their interests in the Browning property to
Surinderpal Arora and Sharanpreet Arora within five days of the full execution
of a written settlement agreement, or no later than March I, 2024, whichever
comes first. Upon delivery of the Grant Deed, Dr. Singh and Dr. Bindra shall
have no further obligation for the Browning property or any loan secured by the
Browning property. Mr. Arora shall remove Dr. Singh and Dr, Bindra as obligors
under any loan secured by the Browning property not later than December 31,
2024. 
 
Mr. Arora is to
release the lis pendens against the Leucadia property within five days of the
full execution of a written settlement agreement, or no later than March I,
2024, whichever comes first. Dr. Singh and Dr. Bindra will release the lis
pendens against the Browning property within five days of the full execution of
a written settlement agreement, or no later than March I, 2024, whichever comes
first.
 
The partnership
between Dr. Singh and Dr. Bindra on the one hand and the Aroras on the other
hand is dissolved upon the payments as set forth herein. This settlement
agreement is the sole winding up process of that partnership.
 
The parties will
execute whatever documents are reasonably necessary to accomplish the purposes
of this agreement without the necessity of taking on further material
obligations.
 
The parties agree
that the Court shall retain jurisdiction over the parties and the action to
enforce this settlement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. Upon
the completion of the winding up process, the parties shall submit a request
for dismissal to the Court to dismiss the action with prejudice, with each side
to bear its own fees and costs, with the Court retaining jurisdiction to
enforce the settlement.
 
Except for the
obligations under this settlement, the parties release all claims against one
another and their agents and representatives from all claims that were or could
have been brought, in this case and waive the application of Civil Code section
1542.
 
In any dispute
between the parties as to the terms of the settlement or enforcement of the
settlement agreement, either this oral recitation or a written settlement agreement,
the prevailing party will be awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. This
provision does not apply to the accounting dispute resolution process provided
by this agreement.
 
The parties
contemplate preparing a written settlement agreement to more fully memorialize
the terms of this settlement, but the settlement is effective immediately and
is effective even if the parties do not enter into a written settlement
agreement.
 
(Declaration of Craig R. Smith ISO Mot. ¶ 2; Exh. A [February 20, 2024
Rough Transcript] pp.9:19-15:24.)
Compliance With Settlement
 
            Plaintiff &
Cross-Defendant (“the Aroras”) contend that Defendants have breached the
settlement by (1) “delay[ing] and obstruct[ing] the performance of nearly every
aspect of the settlement (Motion p.15:20-21); (2) refusing to delivery the deed
to the Leucadia property; (3) refusing to provide an accounting or to permit a
capital accounting; and (4) refusing to cooperate in the selection of a
third-party accountant. 
 
            The Aroras assert that Defendants have, broadly speaking, “delayed” the
performance of the settlement. Nonspecific assertions supported only by
arguments of counsel and statements by Plaintiff Arora are not evidence of
delay. Moreover, aside from the dispute over the accounting process, the Aroras
admit in their Amended Motion that the other “delays” have since been resolved.
(Amended Motion pp. 9:27 [Leucadia deed provided]; 10:19-20 [appraisal
completed].) Thus, even if the Court were inclined to find that Defendants had
breached the Settlement Agreement, the Aroras acknowledge that those breaches
have been cured. Consequently, there is nothing for the Court to enforce with
respect to those issues. 
 
            The Aroras also contend that
Defendants have not complied with their obligations regarding the preparation
of a partnership accounting because they dispute the scope of the accounting
and the range of materials needed to prepare the accounting. Because the Aroras
contend that Defendants’ arguments and objections are invalid, the Aroras ask
the Court to accept an accounting prepared by Plaintiff finding that Plaintiffs
owe Arora $678,776 and enter judgment to that effect. Nothing in the Settlement
Agreement provides for such a remedy. The Settlement Agreement sets forth a
process for selection of a neutral accountant to prepare a neutral
accounting. It does not contemplate one party preparing their own accounting
and demanding judgment thereon. The Aroras are therefore not entitled to the
relief sought in this motion. 
 
            The Court notes that Defendants’
opposition sets forth several issues regarding interpretation of certain
provisions in the Settlement Agreement. Because these issues were raised in an
opposition, rather than a noticed motion, and need not be resolved in ruling on
the motion, the Court declines to address the interpretation issues here. If
any party desires the Court’s interpretation of a term of the settlement, the
proper approach is to bring a noticed motion seeking enforcement of the
settlement with a remedy that aligns with the terms of the settlement as the
moving party contends they should be interpreted. 
 
            The Court also notes that Defendants
seek an award of attorney’s fees for their opposition to the motion. The Court
declines to address fee issues raised in an opposition, rather than a noticed
motion. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff &
Cross-Defendant’s Motion to Enforce Settlement is DENIED. 
            Moving Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 28, 2024                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 