 Case Number:  23SMCV00517    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   NETWORK EXPERTS, INC.,   Plaintiff, v.  BEVERLY HILLS IT SERVICES, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV00517     Hearing Date:  November 14, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   Defendant mostafa baboli’s    motion for relief from mistake    and request for leave to file    cross-complaint   BACKGROUND  This is theft of trade secrets case.  Plaintiff Network Experts provides computer sales. consulting and IT services.  Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.   Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli (“Defendants”) then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services.  Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.   Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients.  Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.   The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel (the “First Action”). Baboli filed a separate action in LASC Case No. 23STCV31366 (the “Second Action”), asserting various employment claims against Plaintiff, its CEO, CFO and Secretary.  Network Experts filed a demurrer, arguing Baboli’s employment claims are compulsory counterclaims and must be heard in this action.  The Court in the Second Action agreed with Network Experts, sustained the demurrer without leave to amend, and dismissed the case without prejudice on May 6, 2024. Baboli then sought leave to file a cross-complaint in this action, to assert the same employment claims as in the Second Action.  The Court denied Baboli’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, concluding Baboli had engaged in bad faith, forum shopping.   Baboli now seeks relief from the Court’s order, arguing that his counsel was mistaken in concluding that his employment claims were at best, permissive counterclaims and could be filed in a separate action.  Baboli’s counsel denies he was engaged in forum shopping.   LEGAL STANDARD Baboli’s motion is one for reconsideration, as he challenges the Court’s finding that he engaged in bad faith.  Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc. section¿1008, subdivision (a), a motion for¿reconsideration¿must be brought “within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)   Courts have construed¿section 1008¿to require a party filing an application for¿reconsideration¿or a renewed application to show¿diligence¿with a satisfactory explanation for not having presented the new or different information earlier.  (Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 839; California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 46–47 & fns. 14–15; see¿Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 688–690.) DISCUSSION Baboli was mail-served with notice of the Court’s ruling on July 25, 2024.  Under¿Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, Baboli had 10 days plus an additional five days for mail service (or by August 9, 2024) to move for reconsideration.  Baboli moved for reconsideration on September 5, 2024.  Thus, Baboli’s motion is untimely, and must be denied.  (Cox¿v. Bonni (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 287, 312 (“A trial court may not grant a party's motion for reconsideration that does not comply with¿section 1008.”).) However, even setting aside the issue of untimeliness, Baboli has not set forth any new law or facts that would justify a reconsideration of this Court’s ruling.  His counsel’s affidavit that he believed in good faith that Baboli’s employment claims were permissive and could be filed in a separate action is not different than was previously argued.  In any event, there is no satisfactory explanation why the facts attested to in the affidavit could not have been made in the earlier motion. Baboli attempts to style his motion as one for relief from his counsel’s mistake.  But the basis of the Court’s prior ruling was that there was no mistake but a deliberate attempt to forum shop.  In re-arguing that there was a mistake, Baboli is seeking reconsideration, and his motion must meet the requirements of section 1008, which it does not. Even assuming there was a mistake, it was not excusable.  “[W]here the court finds that the alleged mistake of law is the result of professional incompetence based upon erroneous advice, general ignorance of the law or lack of knowledge of the rules, or unjustifiable negligence in the discovery or research of the law, laxness or indifference normally[,] relief will be denied.” (State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 611.) Indeed, “[t]here is nothing in section 473 to suggest it ‘was intended to be a catch all remedy for every case of poor judgment on the part of counsel which results in dismissal.” (Id. at 611-612.)  This is one of those cases.   It is well settled that an honest and reasonable mistake of law on a complex and debatable issue is excusable and constitutes good cause for relief from default under Code Civ. Proc. section 473. (State Farm, 90 Cal.App.4th at 611.) However, the issue present here – whether Baboli’s cross complaint “arises out of the same transaction or occurrences” as the Complaint – was certainly not complex and debatable.  In arguing otherwise, Baboli relies on State Farm.  While State Farm also involved a request for leave to file a cross complaint, the “complex and debatable” issue was not in determining whether that cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction or occurrences to make its filing compulsory, as is the case here, but in determining whether its filing was compulsory in an interpleader action, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. section 386. (State Farm, Cal.App.4th at 611.)  The Court of Appeals noted “there is a respectable body of law that suggests Pietak was actually precluded from injecting his claims into that proceeding” and proceeded to cite a slew of case law addressing the complexity of interpleader actions.  (Id. at 612-614.)  Unlike in State Farm, this case is not complicated by an interpleader action, requiring the interpleader statute and the conflicting body of law interpreting it.  Rather, the issue present here was of a simple and obvious point of law.  As the Court noted in its ruling on the Motion for Leave, “[t]he claims in the First and Second Actions clearly arise from the same relationship, and it is not credible for Baboli to claim he had a good faith basis to believe they were not.” Plaintiff also argues that given his attorney affidavit at fault, relief is mandatory, and his attorney’s neglect need not be excusable.  But the error must still be caused by the attorney’s mistake.  (Hernandez v. FCA LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 329, 337 (The trial court is required to vacate the dismissal “unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”) (italics in original).)  Here, as noted above, the Court concluded counsel did not make a mistake, but rather a deliberate choice to forum shop.    CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Defendant Mostafa Baboli’s motion for relief from counsel’s mistake and request for leave to file cross-complaint.     DATED:  November 14, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 