  Case Number:  BC507691    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



PRISCILLA LUJAN and CAMILO,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
HEALTHCARE PHARMACY; ALLIED
  MEDICAL GROUP, INC; ANDREW JARMINSKI, M.D.; JOSEPH GUTIERREZ, PA; INDUSTRIAL
  PHARMACY MANAGEMENT; CURT’S COMPOUNDING PHARMACY; and DOES 1-100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
CURT’S COMPOUNDING PHARMACY,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
HEALTHCARE PHARMACY; ALLIED MEDICAL GROUP, INC; ANDREW JARMINSKY,
  M.D.; JOSEPH GUTIERREZ, PA; INDUSTRIAL PHARMACY MANAGEMENT; and ROES 1-25,
  inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC507691
 Hearing Date:   10/4/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs Priscilla
  Lujan and Camilo Gallegos’s Motion for Protective Order.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiffs Priscilla Lujan and
Camilo Gallegos sue Defendants Healthcare Pharmacy, Allied Medical Group, Inc.,
Andrew Jarminski, MD, Joseph Gutierrez, PA, Industrial Pharmacy Management,
Curt’s Compounding Pharmacy, Doe 1 Kareem Ahmed, Doe 2 Landmark Medical
Management, Doe 3 and 31 Michael Rudolph, Doe 4 PharmaFinance, LLC, and Does 5-30,
32-100 pursuant to a February 21, 2014 Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleging
claims of (1) Strict Products Liability: Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict
Products Liability: Design Defect, (3) Strict Products Liability: Failure to
Warn, (4) Products Liability: Negligence, (5) Products Liability: Negligent
Failure to Warn, (6) Products Liability: Express Warranty, (7) Products
Liability: Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (8) Products Liability: Implied
Warranty of Fitness for a Particular Purpose, and (9) Medical Negligence.
The claims arise from allegations
that Defendants designed, manufactured, compounded, assembled, tested,
engineered, marketed, inspected, distributed, supplied, and/or sold a certain
lotion, cream, topical ointment, or transdermal (Subject Product) that was
specifically designed for the use of Plaintiff Priscilla Lujan, which was
purchased by and/or supplied to Lujan on or about February 2, 2012. Plaintiffs
allege that the Subject Product was defective at the time of its sale and was
otherwise not of merchantable quality and unsafe for its intended purposes and
uses and that such defective product caused the death of Plaintiffs’ son,
Andrew Gallegos, who died after coming into contact with the ointment.
Plaintiffs seek general and special damages, medical expenses, loss of earning
and earning capacity, costs of suit, and other relief as the court deems just
and proper.
In turn, Defendant Curt’s
Compounding Pharmacy sues Defendants Healthcare Pharmacy, Allied Medical Group,
Inc., Andrew Jarminski, MD, Joseph Gutierrez, PA, Industrial Pharmacy
Management, and Roes 1-25 pursuant to a July 22, 2013 Cross-Complaint alleging
claims of (1) Total Equitable Indemnity, (2) Comparative Indemnity, (3)
Equitable Apportionment of Fault, (4) Contribution, and (5) Declaratory Relief.
Dismissal and Reinstatement
On August 24, 2014, after criminal
proceedings had commenced entailing the same operative facts alleged in
Plaintiffs’ pleadings, Defendant Andrew Jarminski, M.D. filed an ex parte
application for an order staying the entire action pending a final resolution
of the criminal proceedings.
On August 25, 2014, the Court
granted Defendant’s ex parte application, and this civil action was stayed.
On November 18, 2021, a Status
Conference was held, after which the “Court order[ed] the Amended Complaint
(2nd) filed by Camilo Gallegos, et al. on 11/18/2013 dismissed without
prejudice” and “waive[d] any re-instatement fees in this case.”
On December 16, 2021, Plaintiffs
brought a motion for reconsideration of the November 18, 2021 order on the
ground that the Court’s November 18, 2021 Order subjected Plaintiffs to
prejudice by failing to “expressly state that the statute of limitations …
[would] be tolled, though the Court obviously implied so in allowing for
refiling.”
On March 2, 2022, “the Court
AMEND[ED] the November 18, 2021, Minute Order to include: ‘Plaintiff’s claims
shall be tolled during the pendency of the criminal proceedings in this case,
which shall not begin to run again until such proceedings come to a final
resolution under California law.’”
On September 9, 2022, Plaintiffs
Lujan and Gallegos made an unopposed Motion “for reinstatement of their action
originally filed on May 2, 2013” on the ground that “[o]n May 19, 2022[,]
Plaintiffs received notice that the criminal proceedings [that led to a stay in
this action] had been dismissed and an appeal would not be taking place,”
effectively ending the criminal proceedings and permitting for reinstatement of
this action.
On November 9, 2022, the Court
granted Plaintiffs’ motion and reinstated this action based on the conclusion
of criminal proceedings and Plaintiffs’ request.
Motion Before the Court
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs
Lujan and Gallegos moved to preclude or limit the scope and duration of any
additional depositions of Plaintiffs, particularly those noticed by Defendant Joseph
Gutierrez, PA, on July 25, 2023.
On September 19, 2023, Defendant
Gutierrez, PA, opposed the motion.
On September 21, 2023, Defendants
Kareem Ahmed and Landmark Medical Management (Landmark) opposed Plaintiffs’
motion.
On September 26, 2023, Plaintiffs
made a combined reply to the oppositions.
Plaintiffs’ motion is now before
the Court. 
 
Motion for Protective Order

Meet and Confer
The Court finds that sufficient
meet and confer preceded this motion as to Defendant Gutierrez, PA, and that to
the degree that Plaintiffs did not meet and confer with Defendants Landmark and
Ahmed, such failure to meet and confer is not dispositive where Landmark and
Ahmed opposed the motion on the merits and were not, per their briefing, prejudiced
in preparing an opposition by the untimely notice. (See Arambula v. Union
Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 343; see also Carlton v. Quint
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697 [Even when the opposing party does expressly
object to inadequate notice but then opposes the motion on the merits, the
issue of defective notice may be waived unless the opposing party makes a
request for a continuance or demonstrates prejudice from the defective notice];
Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1288 [same].)
Legal Standard
A motion for a protective order is
used to ask the court to modify, prohibit, or limit discovery procedures to
protect a party from an excessive or unnecessary burden, expense, or intrusion.
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2017.020, subd. (a) [burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of the discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence], 2019.030, subds. (a)(1)-(2), (b)
[discovery obtainable from other source, cumulative or duplicative, or discovery
method is unduly burdensome or expensive]; see also Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1987.1,
subd. (a) [same or similar standards for subpoenas], 2025.420 [same or similar
standards for depositions], 2025.460, subd. (a) [same or similar standards for
depositions], 2025.470 [same or similar standards for depositions], 2030.090
[same or similar standards for interrogatories], 2031.060 [same or similar
standards for demands to produce], 2032.510, subds. (d), (e) [same or similar
standards for medical examinations], 2033.080 [same or similar standards for
admission requests], 2034.250 [same or similar standards for expert-witness
discovery], 2034.420 [same or similar standards for expert-witness discovery];
see, e.g., Liberty Mut. Ins. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1282, 1285 [defendant sought protective order to prohibit apex deposition on
grounds of annoyance and embarrassment]; Stony Brook I Homeowners Ass’n v.
Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 691, 693 [defendant made motion for
protective order to prevent plaintiff’s inquiry into how much defense work
defense’s expert had performed in personal-injury actions].)
Good cause must normally be shown
to prevail on a motion for protective order. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.420,
subd. (b) [oral deposition] 2028.070 [written deposition], 2030.290, subd. (b)
[interrogatories], 2031.060, subd. (b) [demands to produce], 2033.080, subd.
(b) [admission requests], 2034.250, subd. (b) [expert-witness discovery].)
Order Granting Protective Order:
GRANTED, in Part; DENIED, in Part.
Plaintiffs Lujan and Gallegos move
to preclude or limit the scope and duration of any additional depositions of
Plaintiffs, particularly those noticed by Defendant Joseph Gutierrez, PA, on
July 25, 2023. (Mot., Notice, pp. 1-2.) More specifically, “Plaintiff[s] request[]
that the Court issue a protective order barring Defendant GUTIERREZ, or any
other party, from taking any additional oral depositions of Plaintiffs. In the
alternative, Plaintiffs request that any additional deposition be conducted via
written examination or through interrogatories. To the extent Defendants seek
information pertaining to any change in Plaintiffs’ injuries and damages since
their initial depositions, Plaintiffs request that such matters be discoverable
through written discovery only.” In the further alternative, “Plaintiffs
request that the Court issue a protective order limiting the scope, manner,
and/or duration of any subsequent deposition of Plaintiffs” by permitting “only
the Non-Attending Defendants be allowed to redepose Plaintiffs, and that such
inquiry be limited to circumstances and interactions involving Plaintiffs and
the Remaining Defendants,” under an “order directing that no party may inquire
into any matter already addressed and testified to at Plaintiffs’ initial
deposition.” (Mot., p. 11; see Mot., Gateb Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. B-C [Plaintiffs
were initially deposed on January 13 and 14, 2014].)
In support of this relief,
Plaintiffs generally argue that (1) subjecting them to additional depositions
would result in unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, undue burden,
and expense, (2) subjecting Plaintiffs to additional deposition is unreasonably
cumulative and duplicative in light of Defendants’ failure to exhaust less
intrusive discovery methods, and (3) subjecting Plaintiffs to additional
depositions would be unduly burdensome considering the needs and issues in the
case. More specifically, Plaintiffs first argue, among other things, that despite
being served with two pleadings by that time, Defendant Gutierrez deliberately
chose not to participate in the litigation until a few months after the initial
depositions took place in January 2014. Plaintiffs also argue that there are other
less intrusive means of securing discovery here, such as Plaintiff Lujan’s
testimony from grand jury, deposition, and trial proceedings in related matters
arising from the same operative facts as this case. Plaintiffs also contend
that forcing Plaintiffs to be deposed again would force them to relive and
testify about their son’s death, which took place more than ten years ago, and
would cause them undue burden and intrusion. (Mot., pp. 7-11.)
In opposition, Defendant Gutierrez,
PA, argues that he is statutorily entitled to depose Plaintiffs in this civil
action and that he has not been able to depose Plaintiffs because he did not
participate in the prior depositions, which were noticed prior to Defendant
Gutierrez’s appearance in this action, for which reason notice thereof was not
served on him. Defendant Gutierrez, PA, also argues that: he has no intention
of re-asking questions that were already asked but that he should be entitled
to address relevant issues that were not already covered or were not addressed
completely; Defendant Gutierrez was not a criminal defendant and has not
received discovery from Plaintiffs related to those proceedings; the criminal
proceedings do not bar a right to depositions in a civil matter; the death of a
child, while sensitive in nature, does not preclude the taking of a deposition;
and any request that discovery be limited to written form is without authority
where depositions involve an authorized method of discovery. (Gutierrez Opp’n,
pp. 3-5.)
In a separate opposition,
Defendants Landmark and Ahmed argue against the granting of this motion on the
ground that these Defendants had not appeared in this action until after
Plaintiffs’ January 2014 depositions were concluded. These Defendants also
argue that: the other conditions sought by Plaintiffs—e.g., limitation of
deposition to “circumstances and interactions involving Plaintiffs and the
Remaining Defendants”—should be denied and that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
meet and confer prior to filing this motion. (Landmark/Ahmed Opp’n, p. 2.)
In reply, Plaintiffs argue that a
protective order is necessary to prevent additional annoyance, embarrassment,
oppression, undue burden, and expense to Plaintiffs, that Defendants have
failed to rebut Plaintiffs’ argument that a protective order is necessary to
prevent duplicative and cumulative discovery, and that Defendants have failed
to rebut that additional depositions would be unduly burdensome considering the
needs of and issues in this case. (Reply, pp. 2-5.)
The Court DENIES granting this
motion insofar as it seeks to wholesale protect Plaintiffs from any further depositions.
Depositions are an authorized method of discovery provided for in the Discovery
Act. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.450, subd. (a), 2025.480, subd. (a),
2025.610, subds. (b)-(c).) Defendants Gutierrez, PA, Landmark, and Ahmed had
not appeared in this action prior to Plaintiffs’ initial depositions on January
13 and 14, 2014. They are entitled to the taking of Plaintiffs’ depositions. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (b)(6).)
The Court also DENIES granting this
motion insofar as it seeks to limit to written form any discovery request made
on Plaintiffs Lujan and Gallegos. Again, depositions are an authorized method
of discovery. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.450, subd. (a), 2025.480, subd.
(a), 2025.610, subds. (b)-(c).) Moreover, Plaintiffs’ motion is not
sufficiently particularized in seeking relief from a certain line of questions
or from testimony as to certain issues or facts in this case. Instead, Plaintiffs
seek, in the primary, blanket protection from the further taking of their
depositions. Such relief is improper as requested.
The Court also briefly notes that
the fact that the pleadings are not yet settled against Defendants Michael
Rudolph and Tustin Community Pharmacy, Inc. dba Healthcare Pharmacy, does not
preclude discovery going forward as to Defendants Gutierrez, PA, Landmark, and
Ahmed. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210, subd. (a) [“The defendant may serve a
deposition notice without leave of court at any time after that defendant has
been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs first”]; see also
5/31/13 Proof of Service [showing service of Complaint on Defendant Gutierrez
on 5/10/23]; 7/28/14 Proof of Service [showing service of SAC on Defendant
Landmark on 7/11/14 and on Defendant Ahmed on 7/18/14].) Moreover, these
Defendants have filed Answers to the SAC. (See 3/3/14 Answer [Gutierrez]; see
also 11/28/18 Answer [Landmark and Ahmed].)
However, the Court GRANTS this
motion insofar as it seeks to impose certain conditions on further depositions
of Plaintiffs. These conditions are as follows:
(1) All depositions and related
production requests of Plaintiffs Priscilla Lujan and Camilo Gallegos are
ORDERED to be limited to matters that are not unreasonably cumulative or
duplicative. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030, subd. (a)(1).)
(2) All depositions and related
production requests of Plaintiffs Priscilla Lujan and Camilo Gallegos are
ORDERED to be limited to discovery that is not available from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2019.030, subd. (a)(1).)
(3) Only Defendants that had not
appeared in this action prior to Plaintiffs’ January 2014 depositions may,
without a court order, notice depositions of Plaintiffs. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.290, subd. (b)(6).) The remaining Defendants would have to move for a
court order permitting further depositions of Plaintiffs pursuant to the
Discovery Act. (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subds. (b)-(c).)
(4) This Court will make itself
available on the day of the deposition(s) if it is stipulated by the parties
and can be arranged ahead of time such that the parties can call during a
mid-day break to participate in an immediate informal discovery conference regarding any
objection or discovery issue that may arise during the deposition(s).
Plaintiffs’ motion is otherwise
DENIED. 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs Priscilla Lujan and
Camilo Gallegos’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED, in Part, and DENIED,
in Part, as discussed above.