  Case Number:  22STCV00377    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel
Deposition and Request for Sanctions
Moving Party:                         Defendant Ronald
Smothers
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Jason Mota
BACKGROUND
On April 12, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition and an order imposing sanctions. On May 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 17, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure, section
2025.450 provides that “[i]f, after service of a deposition notice, a party to
the action . . . without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it . . . the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).) “Any party
served with a deposition notice . . . waives any error or irregularity unless
that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or
irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any
other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.” (C.C.P. §
2025.410.)
CCP section¿2025.450(b)
provides:¿“A motion under subdivision (a)… shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”¿ (Id., § 2025.450(b).)  
If a motion under CCP section¿2025.450(a)
is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Id., § 450(g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION
On March 1, 2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff with a notice of taking his deposition, which was scheduled for May
23, 2023. (Mullen Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) At Plaintiff’s
request, the deposition scheduled on May 23, 2023, was rescheduled to August 7,
2023. (Id., ¶ 3; Exh. B.) Again, at Plaintiff’s
request, the deposition scheduled on August 7, 2023, was taken off calendar. (Id.,
¶ 4.) On October 11, 2023, Defendant unilaterally rescheduled
Plaintiff’s deposition to October 25, 2023, because Plaintiff did not respond
to Defendant’s multiple attempts to obtain a new deposition date, and served
notice on Plaintiff to appear for deposition. (Id., ¶ 4; Exh.
C.) The deposition did not go forward as Plaintiff’s counsel had lost
communication with Plaintiff and, as a result, filed a Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s Motion was
granted on November 27, 2023. (Id., ¶ 6.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
decided to pursue the case again in March 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel associated
back into the case on March 11, 2024. (Id., ¶
7.) The court denied
Defendant’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions on March 25, 2024. On March 27,
2024, counsel for both parties agreed to schedule Plaintiff’s deposition for
April 12, 2024, and Defendant served another notice of taking Plaintiff’s
deposition. (Id., ¶ 9; Exh. D.) On March 28, 2024,
Plaintiff requested to move the deposition to April 11, 2024, and Defendant
served yet another notice of taking Plaintiff’s deposition on Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 10;
Exh. E.)
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff
appeared via Zoom, along with Plaintiff’s counsel Jeffrey Bloeser. Defendant Smothers
and Defendant’s counsel Amy Mullen also appeared. (Id., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff’s counsel refused to move forward with the deposition because
Defendant was in attendance via Zoom. Defendant had his camera off and was on
mute. Plaintiff refused to move forward with the deposition unless Defendant
logged off. (Id.) Defendant Smothers is a party to this action and is entitled
to be present for the deposition. (Id.) Due to Plaintiff’s refusal, an
Affidavit of Non-Appearance was taken by the Court Reporter. (Id., Exh. F.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel had a
breakdown in communication, thus Plaintiff’s counsel was unable to move forward
with the First Noticed deposition scheduled for May 23, 2023 or the Second
Noticed deposition scheduled for August 7, 2023. (Bloeser Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff then reached out to his former Plaintiff’s counsel
and explained he had done military service and did not provide his attorney’s
office sufficient contact information. As a result of this explanation,
Plaintiff’s counsel substituted back into the case and resumed the litigation. (Id.,
¶ 5.)
Plaintiff was scheduled to appear at his
deposition on April 11, 2024, but was surprised that Defendant was making an
appearance, and thus he did not feel comfortable moving forward with his
deposition. (Id., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel suspended the deposition and
relayed that it would have been common courtesy to allow Plaintiff’s counsel to
prepare Plaintiff for the presence of the Defendant, however would be willing
to “resume the deposition or schedule for a later date.” (Id., ¶ 8.) Defendant’s counsel
was unwilling to resume or reschedule and already decided she was going to file
a motion to compel. (Id., ¶ 9; Exh. 2.) 
As Plaintiff was properly served with
the notice of deposition, did not object under Section 2025.410, and failed to
proceed with it, the motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for deposition is
granted. 
Plaintiff is ordered to appear for
deposition within 20 days of this order.
Defendant requests $660 in sanctions
under Section 450(g)(1).
As the motion is granted, the request for sanctions is also granted, because
Plaintiff has not shown why the imposition of sanctions would be unjust or any
substantial justification in his refusal to proceed with the deposition. 
First, the Court
notes that Defendant was
entitled to be present at the deposition. The Discovery Act does not
specifically state who may or may not attend a deposition. But it recognizes
that parties and their counsel have the right to be there. This is implicit in
the statute dealing with protective orders which allows the court to exclude
from a deposition “designated persons, other than the parties to the action
and their officers and counsel.” (CCP § 2025.420(b)(12).) A party cannot be
barred from attending another's deposition even on a showing that the deponent
will feel “intimidated” by the party's presence at the deposition. (Willoughby
v. Sup.Ct. (Lui) (1985) 172 CA3d 890, 892.) For this reason, on this
record, the Court finds that the deposition was improperly suspended. 
Although Plaintiff’s counsel has shown
he met and conferred with defense counsel after the suspended deposition, the
Court notes that Defendant has been attempting to take Plaintiff’s deposition since
March 2023, for over a year. This case was filed in January 2022, yet
Plaintiff’s deposition has still not been taken, almost two and a half years
later. While Plaintiff’s counsel offers an excuse that Plaintiff was in
military service, there is no reason why Plaintiff could not have communicated
this to his counsel before leaving for military service, rather than stringing his
counsel and the defense along for almost a year with no communication
whatsoever. 
Further, although Plaintiff’s counsel
states that Plaintiff did not provide him with sufficient contact
information before going to military service-- in connection with Defendant’s
motion for terminating sanctions, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that Plaintiff did not provide his contact
information to his attorney’s office before going to miliary service. (3/25/24
Minute Order; Plaintiff’s 3/19/24 opposition.) In light of this history,
defense counsel’s reluctance in setting another deposition of Plaintiff without
court intervention was entirely reasonable. Defense counsel justifiably states
she is not willing to expend the time and cost on another deposition without
the reassurance of a Court order that Plaintiff will comply with the Discovery
Act and provide his deposition testimony without meritless objections or other
roadblocks. 
As a result, the Court imposes
sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel of record in the amount of $660 ($200
per hour, for 3 hours, plus $60 filing fee), jointly and severally, payable
within 20 days to Defense counsel.

CONCLUSION
Defendant Ronald Smothers’ motion to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Jason Mota is ordered
to appear for deposition within 20 days of Defendant giving notice of this
order.
Plaintiff Jason Mota and counsel of record Jeffrey
Bloeser of Downtown L.A. Law Group are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount
of $660, jointly and severally, to Defense counsel within 30 days of defendant
giving notice of this order.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.