 Case Number:  EC068370    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  10 Date: 4/26/2024 Case No. EC 068370 Trial Date: None Set  Case Name: Grigorian v. Megeredchian, et al.  MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL (3)Moving Party: Law Office of Kyle Kveton, Robie & Matthai  Name of Client: Law Offices of Alex Megeredchian Megeredchian Law  Alex Megeredchian (No Opposition)  Correct address in proof of service?     Client: ok    Other parties:  ok RELIEF REQUESTED: Order permitting attorney to be relieved as attorney of record in this action GROUNDS FOR MOTION:Unreasonably difficult for counsel to effectively continue representation.  Additional information, if necessary, can be disclosed to the court in camera. DECLARATION BY MOVING ATTORNEY: Reasons why motion is necessary:    ok  Address recently confirmed (within last 30 days)  By confirming service address by information contained about a member of the State Bar and his firm on the California State Bar Website    PROPOSED ORDER:Address and phone number of client set forth:    ok  Proper warning:  ok Future dates filled in:     ok    ANALYSIS:The paperwork is in order, but there are two issues the court will address at the hearing. First, the court notes that the motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant Law Offices of Alex Megeredchian was noticed to be heard on May 10, 2024.   The file shows that at a hearing on March 29, 2024, “pursuant to oral stipulation,” the hearing on the motion was advanced to that date and continued to April 26, 2024, presumably so that the motion could be heard together with the other two motions to be relieved which were noticed to be heard on April 26, 2024.  [Minute Order, 03/29/2024, p. 12].  Counsel Eisenberg was ordered to give notice.  There is no notice of ruling providing notice that the hearing date on the motion as to defendant Law Offices of Alex Megeredchian had been advanced to this hearing date.   The court will hear argument concerning whether notice of the new hearing date was in fact given to the client defendant Law Offices of Alex Megeredchian, or whether that motion should be continued for notice to the client. Second, at the hearing on March 29, 2024, a Case Management Conference in this matter was also continued to this date, April 26, 2024.  This hearing date had not been scheduled at the time the motions were filed, and so the date understandably does not appear on the proposed orders.  The court anticipates that future dates will be set at the Case Management Conference on April 26, 2024, and will require that moving counsel modify the proposed orders to include at paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 any future hearing dates and/or trial date set at that hearing before the court will sign the Orders to be served on the clients.   This change will provide the appropriate notice to the unrepresented parties concerning the future hearings and proceedings in this matter. RULING:[No Opposition]Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for defendant Law Offices of Alex Megerdchian:The Court will hear argument concerning whether the client has been given appropriate notice that this motion was rescheduled from the date originally noticed, May 10, 2024, to the date of the hearing April 26, 2024.  The file does not include a notice of ruling giving notice of the rulings at the March 29, 2024 hearing, including the rescheduling of the date for this motion. Or, if the Court is satisfied that the client has been given notice:UNOPPOSED Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for defendant Law Offices of Alex Megerdchian is GRANTED. The Court will sign the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil after the Order has been modified to reflect at paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 any future hearings in this matter set at the Case Management Conference to be conducted this date.  As so modified, the Court will sign the Order and counsel will be relieved effective upon the efiling of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. UNOPPOSED Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for defendant Megerdchian Law is GRANTED. The Court will sign the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil after the Order has been modified to reflect at paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 any future hearings in this matter set at the Case Management Conference to be conducted this date.  As so modified, the Court will sign the Order and counsel will be relieved effective upon the efiling of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client.UNOPPOSED Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for defendant Alex Megerdchian is GRANTED. The Court will sign the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil after the Order has been modified to reflect at paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 any future hearings in this matter set at the Case Management Conference to be conducted this date.  As so modified, the Court will sign the Order and counsel will be relieved effective upon the efiling of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 