  Case Number:  23GDCV00086    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  2 Date: 4/26/2024 Case No:  23 GDCV00086 Trial Date: December 30, 2024 Case Name: Pairavi v. Allen Gwynn Chevrolet, Inc., et al.  MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH STANDING ORDERRE DISCOVERYMoving Party:  Plaintiff Arvin Pairavi  Responding Party: Defendant General Motors, LLC  RELIEF REQUESTED:Order compelling defendant General Motors, LLC to serve document production in compliance with the court’s Standing Order Re Discovery (Song Beverly Litigation) MONETARY SANCTION:None sought FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Arvin Pairavi alleges that in August of 2022 plaintiff purchased from defendant dealer Allen Gwynn Chevrolet, Inc. (Allen Gwynn) a new 2023 Chevrolet Corvette vehicle, which was sold to plaintiff with an express warranty from the vehicle manufacturer, defendant General Motors LLC (General Motors).  Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle was also sold with a statutorily implied warranty of merchantability as described in the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle has a manufacturing defect which causes the brakes to squeal excessively, that plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant dealer on three occasions, and dealer was either unable to perform any repair or the repair performed did not resolve the defect.  Plaintiff alleges that manufacturer and dealer have failed in their affirmative obligation to repurchase or replace the vehicle.  The complaint alleges a cause of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. On September 29, 2023, the court heard motions filed by plaintiff to compel responses from defendant General Motors to special interrogatories and to a request for production of documents.  The motions were denied without prejudice pursuant to this court’s Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) signed and entered by the court on January 24, 2023.  The court’s order provides:“The parties are ordered to meet and confer in good faith concerning compliance with the Order, and to serve any further discovery, and engage in any further discovery proceedings or motions in compliance with the Order and this Minute Order.”[Minute Order, 09/29/2023, p. 5]. ANALYSIS:As previously pointed out to the parties, this matter is subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The Order was originally signed by the court on January 24, 2023, and revised and again signed on January 11, 2024. The court’s previous order had set forth the provisions in the Order concerning discovery in Song-Beverly cases pertinent to interrogatories and requests for production of documents, denied the motions without prejudice, and ordered the parties to engage in good faith meet and confer regarding compliance with the Order:“The parties are ordered to engage in good faith meet and confer concerning the outstanding discovery in light of the Order, and, if necessary, reschedule the motions and file new papers and supporting documentation, including up-to-date separate statements, if required, reflecting the then current status of the discovery disputes.  Separate statements should also set forth verbatim the relevant language of the Order where applicable.”[Minute Order, 09/29/2023, p. 4].  The ruling states:“The parties are ordered to meet and confer in good faith concerning compliance with the Order, and to serve any further discovery, and engage in any further discovery proceedings or motions in compliance with the Order and this Minute Order.”   [Minute Order, 09/29/2023, p. 5]. This motion is now brought by plaintiff to compel compliance with the Order, arguing that plaintiff has repeatedly asked General Motors to comply with the court’s Order with respect to production of documents, but General Motors has simply ignored these requests. [Cooper Decl., para. 2].  The motion does not submit copies of any discovery propounded, establish that such discovery is within the scope of the discovery, which is addressed in the Order, or submit a separate statement as previously required.  Since there is no separate statement, plaintiff fails to set forth verbatim the relevant language of the Order where applicable, as required in the previous minute order. The motion evidently assumes that the court will just take plaintiff’s counsel’s word, without supporting documentary evidence, that plaintiff propounded discovery as permitted by the Order, but plaintiff has failed to respond.  The discovery is not submitted, and there is no separate statement.  [See Cooper Decl.]The Cooper Declaration indicates that there were letters sent to request production of documents, which were not responded to, but it is not clear that the documents in any formal requests or even in the letters were limited to those referenced in the Order.  [See Cooper Decl., para. 2, Exs. A, B].  The first letter was sent on November 30, 2023, and the last letter was sent on December 7, 2023, requesting further production by December 14, 2023.  [Ex. B]. This motion was filed on December 18, 2023. Defendant General Motors argues in opposition that it had served its responses to plaintiff’s two sets of Requests for Production by November 30, 2023, which would have been before this motion was filed, so that this motion would have been one for further responses to discovery, requiring a separate statement, even independently of the standing Order and the court’s previous minute order.   CRC Rule 3.1345 requires that, “any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.”   Under the Rule:“The motions that require a separate statement include a motion:…“(3) To compel further responses to a demand for inspection of documents or tangible things;…”General Motors also argues that it responded to the December 7, 2023 letter in February 15, 2024, and has already produced responsive documents, and “thereafter” this motion to compel compliance was filed. [Major Decl., paras. 5-7].   The argument seems to be that the motion is moot and should be denied.  However, without submission of the actual responses by General Motors with proof of service, or a separate statement indicating verbatim the substance of the responses, the court is unable to determine that the responses were served before this motion was filed, or even since this motion was filed but before the hearing, or that the purported responses were verified or sufficiently responsive to the Order to render this motion moot. This showing by both sides is insufficient to permit an appropriate analysis by this court, and the matter is denied without prejudice.  The parties will be ordered to further meet and confer in good faith concerning the current status of the requests for production, the Order, and any production made in November of 2023 and February of 2024.The parties are also directed to the Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for Department D, entitled Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly Litigation) (Notice), posted since the hearing on the previous motion, and applicable to this case.  That Notice provides:“When the court is faced with a discovery dispute in a Song-Beverly case, the court will usually order that the plaintiff and defendant provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side: 1. Defendant shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of [date of purchase] to present. 2. Defendant shall produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff's complaint in vehicles for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. This includes Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins. Defendant is not required to do a search of emails. 3. Defendant shall produce any customer complaints relating to defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. 4. Defendant shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of [date of purchase] to present. 5. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.6. Communications with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.7. Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle. 8. Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle. 9. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle. 10. Any documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential damages.” The parties are ordered to engage in good faith meet and confer concerning the outstanding discovery in light of the Order and Notice, and, if necessary, reschedule the motion and file new papers and an updated Code-compliant separate statement reflecting the then current status of the discovery dispute, including in that separate statement as to each request and response any applicable language of the Order and/or Notice, as well as of the previous minute order or this minute order.RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Compliance with the Court’s Standing Order re Discovery (Song-Beverly Litigation) from Defendant General Motors, LLC is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE pursuant to this Court’s Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation), signed and entered by the Court on January 24, 2023, as and revised and again signed on January 11, 2024, as well as this Court’s minute order of September 29, 2023, requiring any further motion be accompanied by an appropriate separate statement, referring specifically to the provisions of the Order. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in good faith concerning compliance with the Order, taking into consideration this Court’s Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for Department D, Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly Litigation), and to serve any further discovery, and engage in any further discovery proceedings or motions in compliance with the Order and Notice, as well as with this the minute order of September 29, 2023, and this minute order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 