 Case Number:  22STCV34754    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




THE TESTING COMPANY, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ENIGMA MANAGEMENT CORP. d/b/a
  ALLIANCE LABORATORIES, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV34754




Hearing Date:


May 17, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEMURRER TO
  THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT;
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
  THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




 
Background
Plaintiff The Testing
Company, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 31, 2022 against
Defendant Enigma Management Corp. dba Alliance Laboratories (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff filed a Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on August 7, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1)
breach of contract, (2) common count for services rendered, (3) promissory
estoppel, (4) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (5) fraud –
intentional misrepresentation, (6) fraudulent inducement, (7) negligent
misrepresentation, (8) concealment, and (9) unjust enrichment. 
Defendant filed a motion
for judgment on the pleadings as to the SAC, and on December 20, 2023, the
Court issued a minute order providing, inter alia, that “the
Court grants Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first,
fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action, with leave to amend. The
Court denies the motion as to the eighth and ninth causes of action, and
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. The Court orders Plaintiff to file and
serve an amended complaint, if any, within 30 days of the date of this Order.
If no amended complaint is filed within 30 days of this Order, Defendant is
ordered to file and serve its answer within 30 days of the date of this Order.”
(December 20, 2023 Minute Order, p. 9.) 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) breach of oral contract, (2) common count for services rendered,
(3) promissory estoppel, (4) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
(5) negligent misrepresentation, (6) concealment, and (7) unjust enrichment.[1]
Defendant now demurs to
the first, fourth, and sixth causes of action of the TAC. Defendant also moves to
strike the prayer for punitive damages in the TAC. Plaintiff opposes both. 
Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.   
Allegations of the TAC 
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that it is a “laboratory
that, inter alia, performs logistics for Covid-19 (‘Covid’) testing
events including, but not limited to, collecting samples from individuals to be
tested for Covid.” (TAC, ¶ 6.) “[Defendant] is
a company engaged in Covid testing services in the State of New York.” (TAC, ¶
7.) 
“In 2021, [Plaintiff] and [Defendant]
exchanged a draft written Independent Laboratory
Sales
and Marketing Agreement (the ‘Draft Agreement’).” (TAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff and
Defendant did not end up signing the Draft Agreement. (TAC, ¶ 10.) “Instead,
the Parties orally agreed that [Plaintiff] would identify Covid testing
opportunities and events, and perform all the logistics involved therein
including, but not limited to, collecting swabs and/or samples from individuals
and doing so the correct way such that the samples were in the correct condition
to undergo lab testing, collecting and verifying the individual’s information,
providing the testing staff to run the testing event and collect the samples,
providing the tablets and WiFi costs to collect required signatures from such
individuals, providing transportation services, shipping, testing supplies, and
set up of testing tents and equipment.” (TAC, ¶ 11.) “The Parties further
orally agreed that [Defendant] would receive and run the samples that
[Plaintiff] collected and provide the results to the individuals tested within
48-72 hours.” (TAC, ¶ 12.) 
            “The Parties further agreed on
itemized prices for [Plaintiff’s] services and costs,” and “[Defendant] agreed
to pay [Plaintiff] these amounts for its services.” (TAC, ¶ 14.) “[P]ursuant to
the terms of the oral agreement, [Plaintiff] sent to [Defendant] three
invoices: Invoice No. 10128, Invoice No. 10139, and Invoice No. 10184…” (TAC, ¶
16.) “However, no one at [Defendant] ever responded.” (TAC, ¶ 16.) “[Defendant]
never objected to the Invoices, nor did [Defendant] ever pay [Plaintiff] the
amounts due on the Invoices.” (TAC, ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s of the date of filing this Complaint,
[Defendant] has failed to pay the Invoices which collectively total
$1,703,950.94 for services rendered under the Parties’ agreement.”  (TAC, ¶ 18.) 
C.   
First Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract 
In the first cause of
action for breach of contract, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[i]n
2021, [Plaintiff] and [Defendant] entered into a valid oral agreement with the
terms, and consideration, described above.” (TAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges that
it “substantially and materially complied with its obligations under the
Parties’ agreement,” and “invoiced [Defendant] for the services provided.”
(TAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges that “[Defendant] has breached the Agreement by,
inter alia, failing to timely pay [Plaintiff’s] Invoices.” (TAC, ¶ 24.) 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for
breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty,
LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811, 821.) In the demurrer, Defendant asserts that
“[t]he First Cause of Action for Breach of Oral Contract does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against [Defendant]…Plaintiff never
alleges that it actually performed under the supposed contract.” (Demurrer at
p. 3:3-5.) Defendant argues that “[i]nstead of alleging facts showing that
Plaintiff actually performed its side of the alleged bargain, Plaintiff just
concludes that it fulfilled or complied with its obligations.” (Demurrer at p.
6:5-7, emphasis omitted.) 
But as set forth above, the TAC alleges that “[Plaintiff]
substantially and materially complied with its obligations under the Parties’
agreement.” (TAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff notes that these alleged “obligations” are
spelled out in the TAC, specifically, in paragraph 11
of the TAC, which alleges that “the Parties orally agreed that [Plaintiff]
would identify Covid testing opportunities and events, and perform all the
logistics involved therein including, but not limited to, collecting swabs
and/or samples from individuals and doing so the correct way such that the
samples were in the correct condition to undergo lab testing, collecting and
verifying the individual’s information, providing the testing staff to run the
testing event and collect the samples, providing the tablets and WiFi costs to
collect required signatures from such individuals, providing transportation
services, shipping, testing supplies, and set up of testing tents and
equipment.” (TAC, ¶ 11.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action of the TAC. 
 
 
D.   
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing  
Defendant asserts that the fourth cause of
action also fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
Defendant points to paragraph 43 of the TAC,
which alleges that “[Defendant] breached the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing in depriving [Plaintiff] of its bargained agreement by, among
other conduct, making intentionally false representations of fact to
[Plaintiff] including, but not limited to, that [Defendant] would be able to
meet the 48–72-hour turnaround requirement to deliver testing results, and that
it had the capacity to do so.” (TAC, ¶ 43.) Defendant argues that “[t]he Court
sustained [Defendant’s] prior demurrer to the intentional misrepresentation
claim in the SAC. Plaintiff can’t try to evade that ruling by resurrecting the
same claim via a non-tortious claim for breach of the implied covenant.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:25-27.) In support of this assertion, Defendant cites to Benavides v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th
1241, 1249, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he precise nature and
extent of the duty imposed by such an implied promise will depend on the contractual
purposes. In the first party insurance
context, the insured’s primary contractual right is to receive benefits due
under the policy. Tort liability for an insurer’s breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing arises when the insurer unreasonably
and in bad faith withholds
payment of the insured’s claim.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) But
the instant case does not involve an insurer’s alleged breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Thus, the Court does not see how Benavides is applicable here.  
Defendant
asserts that “saying that [Defendant] intentionally
misrepresented its ability to perform under the contract is just another
prohibited attempt by Plaintiff to convert mere breach into something
tortious.” (Demurrer at p. 6:21-23.) In support of this assertion, Defendant
cites to Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia
Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 507, where the California Supreme Court considered
whether a contracting party can “be
held liable in tort for conspiracy to interfere with its own contract…” The Applied Equipment Corp. Court
concluded that “[i]n its contract with Applied, Varian assumed only the obligation to
perform the contract or pay damages for breach. It did not assume the
independent tort obligation not to interfere with the performance of its own
contract.” (Id. at pp. 517-518.) However,
the instant case does not involve allegations that Defendant conspired to
interfere with its own contract. Thus, the Court also does not see how Applied
Equipment Corp. is applicable here.[2]
Lastly, the
Court notes that Defendant raises arguments for the first time in the reply
concerning the fourth cause of action. The Court notes that “¿[p]oints raised for the first
time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such
consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the
argument.¿” (American
Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.) Thus, the Court declines to consider
points raised for the first time in Defendant’s reply. 
The Court does not find that Defendant has
demonstrated that the fourth cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Thus, the Court
overrules the demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
E.    
Sixth Cause of Action for Concealment 
Defendant also asserts that the sixth cause of action does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
In the sixth cause of action for concealment, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “[Defendant] and [Plaintiff] were joint venturers and as such
were in a fiduciary relationship. [Defendant], however, intentionally failed to
disclose certain facts to [Plaintiff].” (TAC, ¶ 54.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[Defendant] intended to deceive [Plaintiff] by concealing the fact that it did
not have the capacity to test the amount of volume of samples that [Plaintiff]
gave to [Defendant] and by concealing the fact that it did not have the ability
to provide test results within 48-72 hours…” (TAC, ¶ 55.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant cites to County of Riverside v. Loma
Linda University (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 300, 313, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he term joint venture usually connotes a commercial
objective. It exists where there is an agreement between the parties under
which they have a community of interest, that is, a joint interest, in a common
business undertaking, an understanding as to the sharing of profits and losses,
and a right of joint control.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Defendant asserts
that “[t]he claim for concealment just concludes that the parties were
joint venturers, without any supporting facts…The TAC alleges no facts suggesting
any joint venture agreement, any joint interest in a common business, any
understanding to share profits and losses, or any right to joint control.”
(Demurrer at p. 7:4-11.) 
But as noted by Plaintiff, this argument does not concern (or address)
the elements of a cause of action for concealment. As noted by Plaintiff, “[t]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based
on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result
of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 748 [internal quotations omitted].)

Defendant also asserts that the economic loss rule bars the
concealment cause of action. Defendant cites to Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc.
v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 989-990, where the California Supreme Court noted as
follows:
 
“In Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543,
551 [87 Cal. Rptr. 2d 886, 981 P.2d 978], we held that a party’s
contractual obligation may create a legal duty and that a breach of that duty
may support a tort action. We stated, ‘[C]onduct amounting to a breach of
contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of
the contract arising from principles of tort law. [Citation.]” (Ibid.) We
went on to describe several instances where tort damages were permitted in
contract cases. “Tort damages have been permitted in contract cases where a breach
of duty directly causes physical injury [citation]; for breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts [citation]; for wrongful
discharge in violation of fundamental public policy [citation]; or where the
contract was fraudulently induced. [Citation.]” (Erlich v. Menezes, supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp. 551–552.) “[I]n each of these cases, the
duty that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the
contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.
[Citation.]” (Id. at p. 552; see also Harris v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 70,
78 [17 Cal. Rptr. 2d 649] [“when one party commits a
fraud during the contract formation or performance, the injured party may
recover in contract and tort”].).” 
Defendant asserts that here, “Plaintiff’s
concealment claim arises solely from the alleged oral contract, without any
alleged independent duty or breach of duty. The claim therefore is barred by
the economic-loss rule.” (Demurrer at p. 8:9-11.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that the economic loss rule does not bar Plaintiff’s concealment cause
of action, because the cause of action is “based on affirmative
misrepresentations that Plaintiff relied on…” (Opp’n at p. 6:2-3.) In support
of this assertion, Plaintiff points to paragraph 47 of
the TAC, which is contained in the negligent misrepresentation cause of
action. Paragraph 47 alleges that “[Defendant], by and through its principal
Richard Abrazzi, made a number of false, untrue, and fraudulent representations
of material fact to [Plaintiff]. Specifically, at the outset of the
relationship, Abrazzi represented orally to Boris Dobrin that [Defendant] could
produce test results of the samples it received within 48-72 hours, and that it
had the capacity to handle the amount of volume of samples that [Plaintiff] was
going to send [Defendant]. Abrazzi represented that [Defendant] had the
capacity to handle thousands of tests a day and stated he understood that
results were needed in this time frame to collect under certain insurance
codes. (These misrepresentations shall be sometimes referred to herein as the
‘Untrue Statements’.).” (TAC, ¶ 47.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s set forth
throughout this Third Amended Complaint, [Defendant], by and through its
principal Richard Abrazzi, made these Untrue Statements of material fact to [Plaintiff]
as if they were true facts. However, they were not true.” (TAC, ¶ 48.) 
But Defendant’s demurrer concerns the sixth cause of action for
concealment, not the fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. In Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34
Cal.4th at page 991, cited by Plaintiff, the California Supreme Court held that
“the
economic loss rule does not bar Robinson’s fraud and intentional misrepresentation claims because they
were independent of Dana’s breach of contract…Because Dana’s affirmative intentional misrepresentations of fact (i.e., the
issuance of the false certificates of conformance) are dispositive fraudulent
conduct related to the performance of the contract, we need not address the
issue of whether Dana’s intentional concealment
constitutes an independent tort.” (Internal citation omitted.) 
Plaintiff
also appears to assert that Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action
is barred by Code of Civil Procedure section 1008.[3] As set forth above, Defendant
previously filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings concerning Plaintiff’s
SAC. Defendant’s motion was denied as to the eighth cause of
action of the SAC for concealment. (See December 20, 2023 Minute Order.) However, as noted by Defendant,
“[a] party is within its rights to successively demur to a cause of
action in an amended pleading notwithstanding a prior unsuccessful demurrer to
that same cause of action.” (Carlton v. Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1211.) 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of
action of the TAC, with leave to amend. As noted by Plaintiff (and as discussed
above), Defendant did not successfully move for judgment on the pleadings as to
the concealment cause of action in the SAC. 
 
Motion to Strike 
A
court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or any part of a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request in the Prayer for Relief “[f]or punitive damages
according to proof at time of trial…” (FAC, p. 9:1.) 
In
the motion, Defendant argues that “[s]ince Plaintiff has no valid
claim for concealment, as shown by [Defendant’s] Demurrer, Plaintiff has no
claim for punitive damages for concealment.” (Mot. at p. 5:15-16.) In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[b]ecause the claim for concealment carries
an award of punitive damages (and because the claim should survive the
demurrer) Plaintiff has a good faith basis to seek punitive damages in its
prayer for relief and this request should not be stricken.” (Opp’n at p.
2:23-26.) Plaintiff further asserts that “[c]ontrary to Defendant’s assertion,
the TAC does not merely contain conclusory allegations of malice, it details specific
facts regarding intentional concealment, and therefore Defendant’s motion to
strike cannot be granted.” (Opp’n at pp. 2:27-3:2.)  
 However, as set forth above,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the concealment cause of action.
Plaintiff does not appear to assert that any other cause of action of the TAC
supports Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. Based on the foregoing, the
Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike, with leave to amend. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first and fourth causes of action of the
TAC. The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action of
the TAC, with leave to amend. 
The Court grants Defendant’s
motion to strike, with leave to amend. 
The Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended
complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20
days of this Order, Defendant is ordered to file and serve its answer within 30
days of the date of this Order.¿¿¿
Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this Order. 
 
 
DATED:  May 17, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


