 Case Number:  23TRCV01373    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01373
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Kelly
Poz; Ester Poz v. Continental Funeral Home (Hawthorne), Inc., et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Continental Funeral Home (Hawthorne), Inc.
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Kelly Poz; Ester Poz (No Opposition) 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Answer
   
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
                                                
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
On
May 1, 2023, Plaintiff, Kelly Poz and Ester Poz (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed a Complaint against Defendant, Continental Funeral Home (Hawthorne),
Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Contract; and (2) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
On
July 17, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  On September 7, 2023, Defendant filed its
Motion for Leave to file a First Amended Answer to add a defense of an
arbitration agreement between the parties.. 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On September 7, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion for Leave to File First Amended Answer. On October 11, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition. On October 16, 2023, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity
of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds
for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿ (See Id. at p.
1048.)¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a
proposed amendment fails to state a valid defense as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See California Casualty
General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281,
overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿ Under California Rule of Court
Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.¿ 
 
Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a
long, unwarranted, and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason
for denial.¿ In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of
diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge
of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party.¿ If the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.¿ (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿ Prejudice exists where the
amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.¿ (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
486-488.)¿ 
 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Defendant Continental asserts that there is good cause to permit it
to amend its answer since it has only recently filed the original answer and
promptly notified Plaintiffs, the very next day, of its inadvertent failure to
add the affirmative defense of Arbitration. Further, the Court notes that
attached to Defendant’s counsel’s declaration is a copy of the proposed first
amended answer which adds the affirmative defense of Arbitration at page 6,
lines 19 through 27 of the proposed first amended answer.  The moving papers note the effect of the
amendment and why it is necessary and proper; and why it was it was originally
left out of the originally filed answer. This Court notes that Defendant has
followed all procedures in filings its proposed amendment. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the merits of the arbitration
defense, not the predicate procedural issue of whether leave to amend will be
permitted.  The Opposition asserts that
the amendment is futile because it was not in Spanish as other contract documents
were, and asserts that any attempt to compel arbitration will result in a waste
of time, effort and expense for parties to this action and undue delay in the
litigation process.  Plaintiffs analyze
the claimed unconscionability of the document; however, that is not at issue
now. Here, Defendant seeks to amend its answer to include an affirmative
defense of binding arbitration. However, in the Court’s view the Opposition’s attempt
to argue the merits of an arbitration motion that has not yet been filed is
premature.  
 
Plaintiff also argues that the amendment will cause Prejudice as to
plaintiff, Kelly Poz as this case is brought by two Defendants, but the
arbitration agreement only reflects the signature of one of them.  The Court disagrees and does not find this
prejudice to be so severe as to not allow Defendant leave to file an amended
answer. Further, there is a developing body of law including a case currently pending
before the California Supreme Court on the ability of non-signatories to an
arbitration agreement to compel arbitration, which may affect any future motion
to compel arbitration in this case.  Besides
the fact that only one Plaintiff may be bound to arbitration, Plaintiffs
present no further evidence that allowing for Defendant to amend its answer
would cause Plaintiff actual prejudice. As such, because this Court notes that
Defendant has followed all procedures in filing this amendment, the Court
GRANTS Continental’s Motion for Leave to Amend Answer. 
 
III.
CONCLUSION¿ 
¿ 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s 
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Answer is GRANTED.  The proposed Amended Answer is ordered to be
field as a separate, stand-alone document within 5 court days.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice. 