 Case Number:  22TRCV00525    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00525
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sikder Holding International, Inc., et al.
v. Michael Ball, et al.        
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Sikder Holdings International, Inc., a California
corporation; R&R Beverages Group PTE, LTD., a Singapore Limited Company,
Lisa Haque, an individual, and Nasim Sikder
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Michael Ball, et al. (No Opposition) 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:            November 1, 2023 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Continue Trial  
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion to
Continue Trial is GRANTED.
 
  
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs, Sikder Holdings
International, Inc, R&R Beverages Group PTE, LTD, Lisa Haque, and Nasim
Sikder filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael Ball, Marsha NA Nongkhai,
aka Asha Kai, Ultracor, inc., and DOES 1 through 25. The Complaint alleges
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty
(CWater); (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Denim Technologies); (4)
Fraud/Concealment; (5) Conversion; and (6) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Plaintiffs note that on January 30, 2023, Mr. Corona
substituted out in favor of Michael Ball who has been self-represented since
then. On June 7, 2023, Plaintiffs note that Mr. Corona was granted leave to
withdraw from representing the remaining defendants. Since then, Plaintiffs
note that all three have been self-represented and using the lack of counsel as
an excuse to delay and avoid the litigation. 
 
Plaintiffs now file a Motion to Continue Trial. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On September 26, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Motion to Continue the Final Status Conference and Trial. To date, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.  (Id.) The Court may look to
the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
(1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance
of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of
the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial.  (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d)(1)-(11).)  Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial date;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiffs
note that Defendants have not conducted any discovery. Rather, Plaintiff has
provided an entire summarization where they explain that Defendants have been
occupied stonewalling Plaintiffs’ effort to pursue discovery. The Court understands
that the Final Status Conference is scheduled to take place on October 25, 2023,
and the trial is set for November 1, 2023. However, Plaintiffs note that the
discovery motions which have yet to be filed cannot be heard until mid to late
November. Plaintiffs also note that they seek a 3.5 month’s continuance so that
the related case of  Haque v. Ball
(LACSC Case No. 21TRCV00625) may be tried concurrently on February 24, 224. Based
on all of the remaining factors, this Court notes that a continuance of this
motion is in the best interests of the case.  But it is not likely this case will be ready
for trial in February of 2024 if discovery motions remain looming.  
 
The Court seeks
oral argument on the proposed discovery schedule. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’
Motion to Continue trial is GRANTED. Because of the reasons for the motion, the
Court will order all discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates to be continued
to correspond to the new trial date once it is set.
¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 
 