 Case Number:  22STCV16119    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Meny A. Atias
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward
Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch, Paul Morris, and Edward Krifcher 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two, and for Monetary
Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Meny A. Atias
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward
Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch, Paul Morris, and Edward Krifcher
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, and for
Monetary Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Meny A. Atias
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward
Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch, Paul Morris, and Edward Krifcher
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Compliance with Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
Three and for Monetary Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Meny A. Atias
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward
Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch, Paul Morris, and Edward Krifcher
 
 
The Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is
OVERRULED. 
 
The RPDs Set Two Motion is GRANTED in part. The motion is
GRANTED as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward Westwood, Inc. The Motion is
DENIED as moot as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward Calabasas, Inc.
 
        The RPDs Set Three Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        The Further SROGs Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ outstanding
responses to these discovery requests shall be served within 20 days of the
issuance of this Order. 
 
Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant
and against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, jointly and severally, in the total
amount of $2,500.00.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 13,
2022, Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc., Joseph
Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and Paul Morris filed their Complaint against Defendant
Meny A. Atias regarding various causes of action arising from the Parties’
business relationship. 
 
On July 12,
2022, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed: (1) Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc.,
Paul Morris, Edward Krifcher, and Joseph Sacavitch; and (2) Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
 On August 15, 2022,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed their Answer to the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On January
19, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings (“MJOP”). In support of his MJOP, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Benjamin Kassis; (2) Proposed Order; and
(3) Proof of Service. 
 
On January
19, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed Motion to Compel Responses to
Requests for Production, Set Two, and for Monetary Sanctions (“RPDs Set Two
Motion”). In support of his RPDs Set Two Motion, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Ashlee Lin; (2) Proposed Order; and (3) Proof
of Service. 
 
        On
January 19, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed Motion to Compel Compliance
with Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Three and for
Monetary Sanctions (“RPDs Set Three Motion”). In support of his RPDs Set Three
Motion, Defendant/Cross-Complainant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Ashlee Lin; (2) Proposed Order; and (3) Proof of Service.  
 
On January
19, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set Two, and for Monetary Sanctions (“Further SROGs
Motion”). In support of his Further SROGs Motion, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Ashlee Lin; (2) Separate Statement; (3)
Proposed Order; and (4) Proof of Service. 
 
On February
13, 2024, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed oppositions to the MJOP, the
Further SROGs Motion, and the RPDs Set Three Motion. 
 
On February
14, 2024, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed an opposition to the RPDs Set Two
Motion. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants concurrently filed Declaration of William
A. Munoz. 
 
On February
21, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed replies in support of each of the
four motions. Defendant/Cross-Complainant concurrently filed Declaration of
Ashlee Lin in support of each of the three discovery motions.  
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“A party may move for judgment on the pleadings.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).)
 
The motion provided for in this section may only be
made on one of the following grounds: . . . (B) If the moving party is a
defendant, that either of the following conditions exist: (i) The court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).)
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999, citations omitted.) 
 
“In deciding
or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts
are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred
from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Super. Ct. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for judgment on the
pleadings as to the first, fourth, and ninth causes of action in the Complaint.
(MJOP, p. 2:7–12.)
 
1.         
First Cause of Action —
Misappropriation of Corporate Opportunities
 
a.       Legal Standard
 
“The corporate
opportunity doctrine prohibits one who occupies a fiduciary relationship to a corporation
from acquiring, in opposition to the corporation, property in which the
corporation has an interest or tangible expectancy or that is essential to its
existence. Whether or not a given corporate opportunity
was wrongfully usurped is a question of fact to be determined from the facts
and surrounding circumstances existing at the time the opportunity arises.
(Kelegian v. Mgrdichian (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 982, 989 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 390] [‘California
recognizes this [corporate opportunity] doctrine and also recognizes that
whether or not a corporate opportunity exists is primarily a factual
question’].)” (Ctr. for Healthcare Educ.
& Rsch., Inc. v. Int’l Cong. For Joint Reconstruction, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th
1108, 1132, cleaned up.)
 
b.       Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant demurs
to the first cause of action for misappropriation of corporate opportunities,
arguing: (1) that this cause of action can only be claimed by the corporate
entities and not by the individuals, thus the cause of action should be
sustained as to the individuals; and (2) that the first cause of action is
impermissibly duplicative of the claims for breach of fiduciary duty and
conversion. (Demurrer, pp. 5:26–27, 7:24–26.)
 
The Court disagrees with these
arguments. 
 
Among other things, the Complaint
contains allegations that: (1) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants Paul Morris and
Edward Krifcher together own 100% of Forward Calabasas, Inc.; and (2)
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Joseph Sacavitch owns 100% of Forward Westwood, Inc.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 7–8.) Thus, a trier of fact could find that the individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants are essentially alter egos of the corporate
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, and thus the first cause of action could be
pleaded by the individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants as well as the corporate
ones. 
 
Further, it is not immediately clear
to the Court based on the Parties’ respective filings that the first cause of
action is duplicative of any of the other causes of action, including the
causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty and/or conversion. “The fiduciary duty of full
disclosure and fiduciary duty to avoid usurpation of corporate opportunities
are distinct obligations.” (Ctr. for
Healthcare Educ. & Rsch., Inc., supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p.
1131, n. 11.) 
 
        Even
if these causes of action are duplicative in that they are simply different
theories of liability, “[t]he court
must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error, improper ruling,
instruction, or defect, in the pleadings or proceedings which, in the opinion
of said court, does not affect the substantial rights of the parties.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 475.) “[I]t is a waste of time and judicial
resources to entertain a motion challenging part of a pleading on the sole
ground of repetitiveness. (See Civ.Code, § 3537 [“Superfluity does not
vitiate”].) This is the sort of defect that, if it justifies any judicial
intervention at all, is ordinarily dealt with most economically at trial, or on
a dispositive motion such as summary judgment.” 
(Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 890.)
 
Thus, it
would not be appropriate at this stage for the Court to prevent such alternate
theories of liability. 
 
The Demurrer
is OVERRULED to the first cause of action for misappropriation of corporate
opportunities. 
 
2.      Fourth Cause of Action — Breach of Fiduciary
Duty
 
a.       Legal Standard
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its
breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (City of Atascadero
v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
445, 483.)
 
“There are¿two kinds¿of fiduciary
duties — those imposed by law and those undertaken by agreement.” (Gab Bus.
Servs. v. Lindsey & Newsom Claim Servs. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 409, 416,
emphasis omitted, overruled in part on other grounds by Reeves v. Hanlon
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1154.)
 
“Fiduciary duties are imposed by law in certain technical, legal relationships such
as those between partners or joint venturers, husbands and wives, guardians and
wards, trustees and beneficiaries, principals and agents, and attorneys and
clients.” (Id., citations omitted.)
 
“A fiduciary duty is undertaken by
agreement when one person enters into a confidential relationship with another.” (Id. at 417.)
 
b.       Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant demurs
to the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, arguing that it
also must be granted as to the individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants.
(Demurrer, p. 7:2–3.)
 
        The Court
disagrees with this argument for the same reasons it disagreed with this same
argument as to the first cause of action. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7–8.)
 
        The Court
OVERRULES the Demurrer to the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty. 
 
3.      Ninth
Cause of Action — Unfair Competition
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
“As used in this
chapter, unfair competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500)
of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200.)
 
b.       Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant demurs to the ninth cause of
action, arguing: (1) that no unfair competition acts are described or listed in
the Complaint; and (2) that the cause of action must be granted as to the
individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. (Demurrer, p. 7:14–23.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
Multiple acts of allegedly unfair competition are described
in the pleading, including (1) interference with Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
economic and contractual relationship, (2) creation and operation of an
independent entity (Pacific Coastline Escrow) that actively solicited business
from Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ offices, (3) hiring one of
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ employees to serve in
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s new entity, and (4) converting various assets of
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants to use for Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s new
entity. (Complaint, ¶¶ 29–38.)
 
        Also, the Court
disagrees with the argument regarding the individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants for the same reasons it disagreed with this same
argument as to the first and fourth causes of action. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7–8.)
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
ninth cause of action for unfair competition. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is OVERRULED. 
 
II.       The Three
Discovery Motions
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
1.              
Legal
Standard for Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
and demand requests are propounded within 30 days after service of the
requests, unless the time is extended by agreement of the parties. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.260, subd. (a), 2030.270, subd. (a), 2031.260, subd. (a),
2031.270, subd. (a).) If a party fails to serve timely responses, "the
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).) By failing to respond, the
offending party waives any objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).)
 
For a motion to compel, all a propounding
party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the
time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were
directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Super. Ct.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905, 906.) Indeed, "[o]nce [a party] 'fail[ed]
to serve a timely response,' the trial court had authority to grant [opposing
party's] motion to compel responses." (Sinaiko Healthcare Counseling,
Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 405.)
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel motions for
interrogatories or requests for production, unless the Court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails
to obey an order compelling answers, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
2.         
Legal Standard for Further Responses
to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production
of Documents
 
On receipt of a
response to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and/or demand
requests, the propounding and/or demanding party “may move for an order
compelling further response” if: (1) the response is evasive or incomplete; (2)
the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive; or (3) the objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
The court shall
impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further interrogatories
and/or a motion to compel further production of documents, unless the Court
finds that the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
B.      The
Discovery Requests
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves the Court to compel
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants to serve: (1) initial responses to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
second set of requests for production of documents (“RPDs Set Two”); (2)
initial responses to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s third set of requests for
production of documents (“RPDs Set Three”); and (3) further responses to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
second set of special interrogatories (“SROGs”). (RPDs Set Two Motion, p.
8:8–9; RPDs Set Three Motion, p. 2–12; Further SROGs Motion, p. 11:25–28.)
 
As to the RPDs Set Two Motion, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
argue: (1) that the motion is untimely; and (2) that the motion is moot because
complete, verified responses were provided on February 5, 2024. (Opposition to
RPDs Set Two Motion, p. 3:12, 3:24–27.)
 
As to the RPDs Set Three Motion, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
argue that denial of the motion is appropriate since the motion does not
contain a separate statement. (Opposition to RPDs Set Three Motion, p. 3:4–5.)
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants do not deny that they have not served any documents
in response to RPDs Set Three. 
 
        As to the Further SROGs Motion,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants appear to take issue with the fact that a motion
was filed for further responses to six SROGs. (Further SROGs Motion, p.
2:12–13.) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants do not deny that they have not served further
responses to the SROGs at issue.
 
        Defendant/Cross-Complainant admits that
it received initial responses to RPDs Set Two from Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Forward Calabasas, Inc., but he argues that he still has not received responses
to RPDs Set Two from Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward Westwood, Inc. (Reply
re: RPDs Set Two Motion, p. 2:20–22; Decl. Lin re: Reply re: RPDs Set Two
Motion, ¶ 6.) Defendant/Cross-Complainant also argues that the motion is not
untimely. (Reply re: RPDs Set Two Motion, p. 2:8.)
 
        Based on the Parties’ respective
filings, it appears that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants have not served initial
responses to RPDs Set Three (which does not require a separate statement since
no initial responses were actually served) or further responses to the SROGs
(which included a separate statement). Further, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Forward Westwood, Inc. has not served initial responses to RPDs Set Two. It
does not appear that any of the motions are untimely. 
 
        The Court GRANTS in part RPDs Set Two
Motion. The motion is GRANTED as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward Westwood,
Inc. The Motion is DENIED as moot as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward
Calabasas, Inc.
 
        The Court GRANTS RPDs Set Three Motion. 
 
        The Court GRANTS Further SROGs Motion. 
 
        Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ outstanding
responses to these discovery requests shall be served within thirty (30) days
of the issuance of this Order. 
 
C.      Sanctions
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant requests monetary sanctions
against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants for each of the discovery motions. 
 
The Court does not have evidence before it that would indicate Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants served timely, verified responses to the discovery motions. Rather, the
Court has evidence before it that would indicate Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
either served untimely responses or did not serve any responses at all. 
 
The Court does not have evidence before it that would indicate there is
substantial justification or other circumstances that would make the imposition
of a sanction unjust. Thus, the Court must impose a monetary sanction on Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. 
 
Defense Counsel declares: (1) that Counsel Lin charges $895.00 per hour;
(2) that Counsel Kassis charges $715.00 per hour; (3) that for the RPDs Set Two
Motion and its reply, Counsel Kassis spent six hours and Counsel Lin spent an
additional 2.5 hours; (4) that for the RPDs Set Three Motion and its reply,
Counsel Lin spent 7.75 hours on the RPDs Set Three Motion; and (5) that for the
Further SROGs Motion, Counsel Lin spent 4.5 hours and Counsel Kassis spent 6.5
hours. (Decl. Lin re: RPDs Set Two Motion, ¶ 10; Decl. Lin re: Reply re: RPDs
Set Two Motion, ¶ 7; Decl. Lin re: RPDs Set Three Motion, ¶ 10; Decl. Lin re:
Reply re: RPDs Set Three Motion, ¶ 2; Decl. Lin re: Further SROGs Motion, ¶ 8;
Decl. Lin re: Reply re: Further SROGs Motion, ¶ 8.)
 
The Court has not been provided with adequate information that would
demonstrate why these hourly rates — which are on the higher end of rates in
this community — are reasonable. Typically, attorneys who request such high
rates also provide the Court with at least some information that would explain
why such rates are reasonable for these specific lawyers in this specific
community. Without such information, the Court is unable to determine that
these high rates are reasonable here. 
 
Furthermore, the total number of hours claimed for these three motions
— 27.25 hours — is unreasonably high. The attorney hours incurred for the
motions appear duplicative given the similarity of the issues; the Court would
be surprised if the motions took as long as claimed by counsel.
 
With these considerations in mind, the Court AWARDS monetary sanctions
in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant and against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, jointly and severally, in the total amount of
$2,500.00, which comprises of five hours of attorney work at the rate of
$500.00 per hour. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
The RPDs Set Two Motion is GRANTED in part. The motion is
GRANTED as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward Westwood, Inc. The Motion is
DENIED as moot as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Forward Calabasas, Inc.
 
        The RPDs Set Three Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        The Further SROGs Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ outstanding
responses to these discovery requests shall be served within 20 days of the
issuance of this Order. 
 
Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant
and against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, jointly and severally, in the total
amount of $2,500.00.
 