 Case Number:  23STCP03496    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
COREY CASTON,  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP03496




vs.
 
 
STEVE GORDON, DIRECTOR, OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
  MOTOR VEHICLES,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Corey Caston petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent Steve Gordon,
Director of the Department of Motor Vehicles, to set aside an order suspending petitioner’s
driving privileges. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
Arrest
 
On
April 8, 2023, Officer Zamudio and Officer Saldana were working uniformed
patrol in a marked black and white patrol vehicle (P24/8X5). (AR 15.)[1]
At approximately 1:27 a.m., Officers Zamudio and Saldana received a call
regarding a male asleep in a Dodge Charger at a drive through while multiple
vehicles were honking at him for approximately 20 minutes without any response
from the driver. (AR 15.) Emergency medical services responded on the scene to
assist. (AR 15.) 
 
After
arriving on scene, the officers located the Dodge Charger stopped in the drive
through with a gap in front of the Charger, making it clear that the driver was
not proceeding forward through the drive through. (AR 15.) The officers
observed the driver to be asleep in the driver’s seat. To prevent the vehicle
from moving, Officer Zamudio parked directly in front of the Dodge Charger
(nose to nose) with only a few inches apart in case the driver woke up and took
his foot off the brake pedal. (AR 15.) Officer Zamudio then approached the
driver’s side door and noticed the driver and sole occupant of the vehicle
sleeping. (AR 15.) After a few seconds of knocking and rocking the vehicle back
and forth, the driver (later identified by California Driver’s License as petitioner
Corey Caston) woke up. (AR 15-16.)
 
Petitioner
appeared disoriented and had difficulty opening the door and rolling down the
window. (AR 16.) Officer Zamudio asked petitioner to put his vehicle in park,
and petitioner placed the vehicle from Drive to Neutral. (AR 16.) Officer
Zamudio noticed a strong odor of alcohol emitting from petitioner’s breath. (AR
16.) Officer Zamudio asked petitioner to step out of the vehicle, and petitioner
complied. (AR 16.) Petitioner swayed as he exited the vehicle. (AR 16.) Los
Angeles County Fire Department also arrived on the scene and checked petitioner’s
vital signs but did not feel the need to continue their medical evaluation. (AR
16.)
 
Officer
Zamudio asked petitioner how much he drank. Petitioner admitted to having drunk
a shot of alcohol. (AR 16.) During his conversation with Officer Zamudio, petitioner
had slurred speech. (AR 16.) Officer Zamudio then conducted an eye test on petitioner
and saw that he had bloodshot watery eyes and horizontal gaze nystagmus with a
lack of smooth pursuit and that his eyes were unable to converge. (AR 16.) The
officers then escorted petitioner to a well-lit safe area with fewer vehicles
for petitioner to perform standardized field sobriety tests. (AR 16.) Officer
Zamudio asked petitioner to perform the standardized field sobriety tests, but petitioner
refused. (AR 16.) Officer Zamudio then read petitioner the Preliminary Alcohol
Screening (“PAS”) admonition, and petitioner refused to take the PAS test. (AR
16.)
 
Based
on Officer Zamudio’s training and experience, petitioner’s objective signs and
symptoms of intoxication, including petitioner sleeping in the running vehicle
set in Drive, Officer Zamudio formed the opinion that petitioner had been
driving a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol and placed him under
arrest for having violated Vehicle Code section 23152, subsection (a). (AR 16.)
Officer Zamudio then read petitioner the Chemical Test Admonition (DMV-367
form) verbatim. Petitioner agreed to take a breath test. (AR 16.) Officer
Zamudio offered to call someone to pick up the vehicle, but petitioner refused
and the vehicle was towed pursuant to Vehicle Code section 22651, subsection
(h). (AR 16.) The officers then transported petitioner to the Gardena Police
Department jail where he was booked for having violated Vehicle Code section
23152 subsection (a). (AR 16.)
 
Petitioner
became argumentative regarding the tow of the vehicle and stated he wanted an
attorney. (AR 16.) Officer Zamudio asked petitioner again if he would take a
breath or blood test, and petitioner refused to take both tests, stating he
wanted his attorney. (AR 16.) Petitioner refused and did not provide any blood
or breath chemical test sample after he was read the Chemical Test Admonition
on the DMV form verbatim and the officer had requested that petitioner select
and submit to a test. (AR 16.) 
 
 
B.          
Administrative
Proceedings
 
Petitioner’s
administrative per se hearing[2]
was held before DMV Hearing Officer Rubio on June 5, 2023. (AR 32.) The scope
of the hearing was limited to the following issues: (1) Whether petitioner was
admonished that his driving privilege would be suspended or revoked if he
refused or failed to complete a required chemical test to determine the alcohol
content of his blood; and (2) Whether petitioner refused to take or failed to
complete a chemical test or tests after being requested to do so by a peace
officer. (AR 6.)
 
During
the hearing, the DMV introduced and marked DMV’s Exhibits 1-5 and petitioner
made no objections. (AR 38.) Based on the exhibits entered into evidence,
including the “DS-367, Officer’s Statement Dated 4/8/2023; Arrest Report Dated,
4/8/2023; Supplemental Arrest Report Dated, 4/8/2023, MVARS footage dated
4/8/2023,” Hearing Officer Rubio determined: (1) Arresting Officer Zamudio had
reasonable cause to believe petitioner was driving a motor vehicle in violation
of Vehicle Code sections 23140, 23152, or 23153; (2) petitioner was placed
under lawful arrest; (3) petitioner was told his driving privilege would be
suspended or revoked if he refused to complete the required testing; and (4) petitioner
refused or failed to complete the chemical test or tests after being requested
to do so by a peace officer. (AR 6.) With respect to the final element, Hearing
Officer Rubio specifically found based on the above noted evidence that petitioner
“presented no contentions against this issue,” determined that “California law
does not provide for the presence of an Attorney during the admonition,” and
that petitioner’s contention that he did not understand the chemical test
admonition was “based on a subjective interpretation of the evidence.” (AR 6.)
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
September 20, 2023, petitioner filed a Petition for Writ of Mandamus. On December
12, 2023, respondent filed an Answer. 
 
            On
September 25, 2023, petitioner filed a memorandum of points and authorities. No
proof of service was attached to that brief. 
 
            The
Trial Setting Conference was held on January 16, 2024. During the Trial Setting
Conference, petitioner advised the Court that, although a memorandum of points
and authorities had previously been filed, petitioner would be filing an
opening brief. The Court set the hearing on the writ petition for June 13,
2024, and ordered that the opening brief be served and filed 60 days prior to
the hearing date, the opposition served and filed 30 days prior to the hearing
date, and the reply served and filed 15 days prior to the hearing date. (1/16/24
Minute Order.) The hearing was later continued to August 15, 2024, with the
briefing schedule tied to the original hearing date. (6/4/24 Minute Order.) 
 
            On
May 10, 2024, respondent filed an opposition. On May 17, 2024, petitioner served
and filed the opening brief, with administrative record attached. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
Under CCP § 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are
whether the respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a
fair trial, and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse
of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded in the manner
required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the findings
are not supported by the evidence. (CCP § 1094.5(b).) “[T]he party challenging
the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.” (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 817; see also Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 139.)
 
When a driver petitions for a writ of mandate
following an order suspending his or her driver’s license, the trial court is
required to determine, based on its independent judgment, whether the weight of
the evidence supports the administrative decision. (Lake v. Reed (1997)
16 Cal.4th 448, 456.) Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby, 4 Cal.3d at 143.) The court must draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility determinations. (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860, 868.)  However, “[i]n exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a
strong presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and
the party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of
convincing the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the
weight of the evidence.” (Fukuda, 20
Cal.4th at 817, internal quotations omitted.)
 
A reviewing court “will not act as counsel for
either party … and will not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a
search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in
the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) The court
cannot evaluate arguments that are not made in the briefs and cannot make the
parties’ arguments for them. (Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-63 [argument waived if not raised]; Pfeifer v.
Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1282 [same].)
 
IV.     Analysis
 
A.          
Untimely
Opening Brief
 
As
stated above, the opening brief was due 60 days prior to the original hearing
date, i.e., by April 15, 2024, as April 14, 2024 was a Sunday. No
opening brief was filed by that date. Instead, after respondent filed an
opposition on May 10, 2024 arguing that petitioner did not file an opening
brief, petitioner untimely served and filed an opening brief on May 17, 2024. Despite
the untimely filing of the opening brief, the Court exercises its discretion to
consider it. The Court also exercises its discretion and considers the
opposition. (Rule of Court 3.1300(d) [“No paper may be rejected for filing on
the ground that it was untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its
discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must
so indicate”].) 
 
B.          
Merits
            
            Petitioner
seeks to set aside the administrative decision of the DMV to suspend his
driving privileges. Petitioner contends that there was no factual basis for a
finding that he refused to complete a chemical test.[3]

 
            When
a person is lawfully arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol, they
are deemed to have consented to the chemical testing of their blood or breath
to determine their blood alcohol content. (Veh. Code § 23612(a)(1)(A).)
Refusing to submit to, or failing to complete, a chemical test offered under
Section 23612 is punishable by the suspension of the person’s driving
privileges, among other sanctions. (Veh. Code § 13353(a)(1).) The officer must
tell the arrestee that failure to submit to, or complete, the chemical test
will result in a fine and suspension or revocation of driving privileges. (Veh.
Code § 23612(a)(1)(D).)
 
            “If
the driver refuses to complete [a chemical test], his driving privilege is
subject to suspension. There is a strong public policy against the nightmare of
drunk driving. Thus, the implied consent law should be liberally construed to
effect its purpose, which is to swiftly and accurately identify drunk drivers.
(Carrey v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1265,
1270.) “Consent which is not clear and unambiguous may be deemed a refusal. The
determinative factor as to whether there is a refusal is not the arrestee’s
subjective state of mind, but rather the objective, fair meaning to be
distilled from his words and conduct.” (Ibid.)
 
Petitioner
argues that, on the Chemical Test Admonition form, Officer Zamudio recorded
petitioner as having said: “I’ll just do the breath test” in response to the
question, “Will you take a Breath Test?” (AR 10.) The body worn camera footage
from the arrest also purportedly shows petitioner agreeing to take the breath
test. (AR 39 [argument from petitioner’s counsel at administrative hearing].) 
 
However,
in the Crime/Incident Report, Officer Zamudio wrote that, after petitioner
agreed to take a breath test, he and Officer Saldana transported petitioner to
the Gardena Police Department jail. (AR 16.) At the jail, Officer Zamudio asked
petitioner again if he would take a breath or blood test, at which point
petitioner refused both tests. (AR 16.) 
 
Petitioner
appears to argue that the post-arrest Crime/Incident Report is inadmissible hearsay
evidence. (Opening Br. at 6:14-16.) Although the post-arrest report is unsworn,
it was admissible during the DMV hearing as the type of evidence typically
relied upon. (MacDonald v. Gutierrez (2004) 32 Cal.4th 150, 158-59 [“[S]o
long as a sworn report is filed, it is consistent with the relaxed evidentiary
standards of an administrative per se hearing that technical omissions of proof
can be corrected by an unsworn report filed by the arresting officer”]; AR 9 [DS-367
Officer’s Statement is sworn].) 
 
Further,
under Evidence Code § 664, “[i]t is presumed that official duty has been
regularly performed.” (Evid. Code § 664.) A police officer has an official duty
to make accurate statements. (Fisk v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1981)
127 Cal.App.3d 72, 79.) Accordingly, petitioner must demonstrate that Officer
Zamudio’s statement that petitioner did not consent to the chemical blood test
was inaccurate.
 
Petitioner
argues that there was no evidence in the body worn camera video that petitioner
later refused any chemical test after his arrest. (Opening Br. at 6:3-4.)  The Court has no way to determine the truth
of that contention.  “In a section 1094.5
proceeding, it is the responsibility of the petitioner to produce a sufficient
record of the administrative proceedings; ‘otherwise the presumption of
regularity will prevail, since the burden falls on the petitioner attacking the
administrative decision to demonstrate to the trial court where the
administrative proceedings were unfair, were in excess of jurisdiction, or
showed “‘prejudicial abuse of discretion.’” (Elizabeth D. v. Zolin
(1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 347, 354.) Petitioner did not provide the body worn
camera video to the Court and thus fails to meet his burden to prevail here. 
 
Under
CCP § 1094.5, “the party challenging the administrative decision bears the
burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are contrary to
the weight of the evidence.” (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th
805, 817; see also Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 139.)
Petitioner’s assertion that he was not provided the opportunity to complete the
breath test (Opening Br. 6:13-16) is self-serving; there is no reason offered
by plaintiff as to why Officer Zamudio would state that petitioner refused to
complete a chemical test post-arrest if the refusal was not true. 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, in its independent judgment, the Court finds the weight
of the evidence supports the Hearing Officer’s finding that petitioner refused
to complete a chemical test after being requested to do so by a peace officer. 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The petition for writ of mandate is DENIED.
Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), respondent shall prepare, serve, and
ultimately file a proposed judgment. 
 


