 Case Number:  23STCV05044    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  74 Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests
for Admission (Sets One) Admitted and Request for Sanctions
 
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from an employment dispute.
            On
March 7, 2023, Plaintiff April Netus (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendant Noor Staffing Group (Defendant) and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
            On
September 24, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with requests for admission (set
one) (RFAs).
            After
multiple extensions, Plaintiff’s counsel failed to provide timely responses.
            On
March 15, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to deem the RFAs admitted.
LEGAL STANDARD
            If a party to whom requests for
admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the requesting party
may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified in the requests
be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).) Further, the Court¿shall¿make this order, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing¿on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) ¿
            While tardy
responses may defeat the motion, they will not avoid monetary sanctions. (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c) [“It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction [Citation] on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure
to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.”].)  

DISCUSSION  
            The
court grants this motion because Plaintiff has not provided responses to the
RFAs. Moreover, sanctions are mandatory. (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Defendant’s counsel’s proposed hourly
rate is reasonable, and she has provided a breakdown of work performed. (Marko
Decl., ¶ 7.) However, this motion largely duplicates Defendant’s other
discovery motions. The court will adjust the award accordingly.
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Defendant’s motion to deem the RFAs admitted. The court grants
Defendant’s request for sanctions. Plaintiff shall pay Defendant’s counsel
attorney fees in the sum of $690 within 30 days of this order.
Defendant
shall give notice.