  Case Number:  20STCV45866    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  61 ENVIRONET INC., et al. vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY FAIR ASSOCIATION, et al.Tentative:Plaintiffs Ryan Koda and Environet, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  Defendants are ordered to file a responsive pleading within 30 days. Trial and Final Status Conference dates are advanced and vacated.  A trial readiness hearing is set in 60 days. Plaintiffs to give notice.Analysis:I. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMENDCode Civ. Proc. section 473 subd. (a)(1) states that:The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code. “The trial court has discretion to permit or deny the amendment of the complaint, but instances justifying the court's denial of leave to amend are rare.” (Armenta ex rel. City of Burbank v. Mueller Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 636, 642.) “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial [Citations], this policy should be applied only ‘[w]here no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .’ [Citation.] A different result is indicated ‘[w]here inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)Pursuant to California Rule of Court Rule 3.1324, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must: (1)Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3)State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.” Such a motion must include a supporting declaration stating, “(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)Plaintiffs Ryan Koda and Environet, Inc. (Plaintiffs) seek leave to file a third amended complaint (TAC) alleging three new causes of action — negligence, negligence per se, and negligent infliction of emotional distress — concurrent with the one remaining cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the operative SAC. (Motion at p. 3.) Plaintiffs also seek leave to delete causes of action and parties who have already been dismissed from the case. (Motion at pp. 2–3.) The asserted basis for the amendment is Plaintiff Koda’s undergoing of an independent medical evaluation at the request of Defendants Los Angeles County Fair Association and Dwight Richards (Defendants), in which it was concluded that Koda’s chronic rhinitis and asthma were likely caused by exposure to gases released from the machines that are the subject of this action. (Tarasoly Decl. Exh. A.) This report was released on September 6, 2024. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs state that this “recent discovery” has revealed that Plaint Koda “has suffered actual damages as the result of Defendants’ operation of engine #3 without a catalytic converter.” (Motion at p. 3.)Defendants argue that Plaintiff has unreasonably delayed bringing the present motion, as they previously proposed filing a third amended complaint on December 12, 2023, in which they noted that Plaintiff Koda had been suffering respiratory symptoms as a result of his exposure, and asking Defendants to stipulate to filing an amended complaint to add a new cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Rezai Dec. Exh. A.) Defendants declined to stipulate, noting that this court had already dismissed a prior claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, without leave to amend. (Rezai Decl. Exh. A.) Defendants also argue that they will be prejudiced by allowing the amendments, as trial is set for April 8 2025, and additional discovery will need to be performed, particularly into Plaintiff’s medical records. (Rezai Decl. ¶ 12.) Defendants further argue that they will require an opportunity to challenge the legal and evidentiary foundations for the new claims. (Ibid.)Defendants have shown delay in the bringing of the present motion, but not any substantial prejudice resulting therefrom. The asserted basis for the present motion is Plaintiff’s discovery that he is suffering respiratory injuries as a result of his exposure to Defendants’ machinery, a fact he knew more than a year before the hearing on the present motion, as indicated in Defendants’ email correspondence. (Rezai Decl. Exh. A.) But discovery into Plaintiff’s medical condition has already begun, as evidenced by the IME that Plaintiff asserts as the basis for the present motion. (Tarassoly Decl. Exh. A.) And while the legal theories are new, and ought to have been asserted earlier, the factual basis for the claims is virtually identical to that underlying Plaintiff’s prior claims — exposure to harmful gases from Defendants’ machines — and thus unlikely to widen the scope of the action.Defendants seek a continuance of trial as a condition for granting leave to amend pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §473, subd. (a)(1). (Motion at p. 8.) Plaintiff in reply denies that a continuance or reopening of discovery is necessary. (Reply at pp. 4.) Given Plaintiff’s delay in bringing the motion, a continuance is reasonable. The length of the continuance necessary to permit discovery into any new elements of Plaintiff’s claims, and to permit the filing of dispositive motions, can be determined at a trial readiness hearing.The motion is therefore GRANTED. Trial and Final Status Conference dates are advanced and vacated.