 Case Number:  23STCV14890    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  61 STEWART LUCAS MURREY vs KELLY GIBBONS, et al.Tentative:Plaintiff Stewart Lucas Murrey’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.Clerk to provide notice.Analysis:I. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMENDCode Civ. Proc. section 473 subd. (a)(1) states that:The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name ofany party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.“The trial court has discretion to permit or deny the amendment of the complaint, but instances justifying the court's denial of leave to amend are rare.” (Armenta ex rel. City of Burbank v. Mueller Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 636, 642.)“Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial [Citations], this policy should be applied only ‘[w]here no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .’ [Citation.] A different result is indicated ‘[w]here inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)Pursuant to California Rule of Court Rule 3.1324, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must: (1)Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3)State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.”Such a motion must include a supporting declaration stating, “(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)Plaintiff Stewart Lucas Murrey (Plaintiff) seeks leave to file a second amended complaint (SAC) adding four new causes of action for strict product liability, negligence, Business & Professions Code § 17200, and violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, as well as the following new defendants: Facebook, the Facebook Group “Are We Dating the Same Guy,” several anonymous Facebook moderators and users, and Katherine Poer-Anthony. (Motion at p. 7.)The motion is infirm. Although Plaintiff states that his proposed SAC is attached as “Exhibit 1” to his declaration, his declaration neither attaches the proposed pleading nor references any exhibits. The substance of Plaintiff’s declaration does not address matters required by the Rules of Court, such as why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) Moreover, Plaintiff proposes by his amendment to state new causes of action against defendants Vanessa Valdes and Liv Burger, who have already prevailed against Plaintiff on special motions to strike. “[A] plaintiff whose complaint is stricken by a successful anti-SLAPP motion cannot try again with an amended complaint. There is no such thing as granting an anti-SLAPP motion with leave to amend.” (Dickinson v. Cosby (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655, 676.)The motion is therefore DENIED.