  Case Number:  23AHCV01676    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER
DENYING THE MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF IRWIN MUNOZ
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
DENYING IN PART AND GRANTING IN PART THE MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO ANSWER
DEPOSITION QUESTIONS AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONSI.        INTRODUCTION
           This is an employment law action brought by Plaintiff
Irwin Munoz (“Plaintiff”) against his former employer TCK Alhambra LLC
(“Defendant”), alleging that after announcing his wife’s pregnancy during his
employment, he was subject to negative comments, denied family and medical
leave, and terminated because of his marital status. 
The complaint asserts 11
causes of action, including wrongful termination, violation of the California
Family Rights Act, discrimination, and various Labor Code wage and hour claims.

           Before the Court are two motions by Defendant. The first
motion seeks terminating and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. The second
seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to answer some deposition questions and pay
sanctions of $6,830 for necessitating the motion. The Court exercises its
discretion to consider Plaintiff’s late-filed oppositions to the motions. Because
Plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process is not severe, the motion for
terminating sanctions is denied in its entirety. Because some discovery
questions were appropriate but not others, the motion to compel answers at
Plaintiff’s deposition is granted in part and denied in part. 
 
II.       MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS 
If a party engages in the misuse of the
discovery process, the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or
terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) “Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: ¶ ….
¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ (d) Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery. ¶ …. ¶ ….  ¶ (g) Disobeying a court
order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (a)(1).)
“The
trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after
considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to
determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party;
and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. 
But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.’” (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 [citation
omitted].) “Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.” (Ibid.)

“[D]iscovery
statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.
‘Discovery sanctions “should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to
but denied discovery.”’ [Citations.] If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse,
a greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process
warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will
curb the abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (“Doppes”).)
Here, Defendant moves for terminating sanctions,
arguing that Plaintiff misused the discovery process in the following ways.
First, this Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to
Defendant’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and ordered
Plaintiff to serve those responses by March 7, 2024. Plaintiff has disobeyed
the Court’s order because he has not produced the requested documents. Second,
Plaintiff testified during his first deposition that he had given his lawyer
499 pages of text messages (that contain relevant information), and he was not
sure why those messages were not produced to Defendant. Therefore, Plaintiff
has admitted to withholding relevant information. Third, Plaintiff’s counsel
instructed him and refused to answer some questions during his deposition. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s failure to answer
deposition questions does not warrant terminating sanctions. That issue is best
addressed through a motion to compel, which Defendant has filed and the Court
addresses below.  However, Plaintiff has
misused the discovery process to some degree because he admits he produced the Court-ordered
discovery responses late. (Opposition, p. 2:10-12.)  “[D]iscovery
sanctions may not be imposed as a punishment. ‘Courts have continued to uphold
the principle ... that sanctions may not be imposed solely to punish the
offending party.’ [Citations.]” (Kwan Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 75.) 
Therefore,
it would be improper for the Court to impose
terminating or any sanctions against Plaintiff because he served his discovery
responses late. Defendant argues in its reply that Plaintiff did not produce
all documents. However, to the extent that was the case, Defendant should have
filed a motion to compel further responses, but it did not. 
For those reasons, the request for terminating
sanctions is denied. Defendant’s request for sanctions of $5,190 against
Plaintiff is also denied. (Motion for Terminating Sanctions, p. 10:4-5 [seeking
those monetary sanctions for the costs Defendant incurred in bringing the
motion].)
The motion for terminating sanctions is denied in its
entirety. 
 
           III.     MOTION TO
COMPEL ANSWERS AT A DEPOSITION
“If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)
A
motion to compel answers at a deposition must be accompanied by a separate
statement. (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1345, (a)(4).)
Here,
Defendant has filed a separate statement as required. (Separate Statement filed
April 17, 2024 [detailing the deposition questions at issue and why Defendant
is seeking an order compelling responses to those questions].)
In
its motion, Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not have a good reason to
refuse to answer 68 deposition questions and that counsel should not have
instructed Plaintiff not to answer.
           According to the California Court of Appeal, the
deposition statutes “contemplate that deponents not be prevented by counsel
from answering a question unless it pertains to privileged matters or deposing
counsel’s conduct has reached a stage where suspension is warranted.” (Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015 [emphasis
added].) Suspension is only warranted where “it could legitimately be said
that counsel’s intent [is] to harass, annoy, embarrass, or oppress.” (Ibid.
[emphasis added].) “The fact that suspension is available only where an
interrogation into improper matters reveals an underlying purpose to harass,
annoy, etc., indicates that witnesses are expected to endure an occasional
irrelevant question without disrupting the deposition process.” (Ibid.
[emphasis added].)
           Keeping that law in mind, the Court has reviewed the
separate statement and rules on the request to compel as follows. 
           The request to compel Question No. 1 is denied. The
Court finds the question posed to Plaintiff (“[i]s the statement written in
paragraph 17 of your lawsuit accurate”) vague. Although Defendant argues that
it was referring to Paragraph 17 of the Complaint, there is no evidence that
Plaintiff understood “lawsuit” meant his complaint or even what that specific
paragraph said. 
The
request to compel Question Nos. 2-14, 20, 25-27, 30-33, 37, 40, 44-46, 54,
55, 61, 64, and 66 is granted in light of the case law above. 
The
request to compel Question Nos. 15-18, 21-24, 28, 29, 34-36, 38, 39,  41-43, 47-53, 56-60, 62, 63, 65, 67, and 68
is denied. The Court finds those questions asked for irrelevant information
that went beyond the scope of this dispute. Defendant argues that some
questions were aimed at finding out whether Plaintiff’s alleged emotional
distress had alternative causes. However, there were more appropriate ways to
ask for that information. For example, Defendant could have asked Plaintiff whether
he has suffered emotional distress in the past and the reasons for that
distress. Instead, Defendant asked questions that assumed facts not evidence
and were harassing given the facts of this case. (Cf. Separate Statement, p.
20:23-28, Question No. 28 [asking Plaintiff: “Do the emotional distress
symptoms that you suffer as a result of your relationship with the mother of
your first child prevent you from accomplishing any of your daily life activities?”].)  
Defendant
also seeks “an order imposing monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the
amount of $5,130, plus the cost of the additional day of deposition (estimated
at $1,700).” (Notice of Motion to Compel, p. 2:1-2.) The requested $5,130
consists of 15 hours defense counsel spent on the moving papers, 3 hours
counsel anticipated spending reviewing the opposition papers and attending the
hearing, a total of 18 hours at counsel’s billing rate of $285 per hour.
(Declaration of Ryan M. Deam, filed April 17, 2024 (“Deam Decl.”), ¶ 8.)
Defense counsel has also attached an invoice of $1,697.50, the cost Defendant
incurred for the first deposition. (Deam Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit E – a copy of the
invoice.)
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (j).)
The
Court finds imposing sanctions proper given that Plaintiff and his counsel did
not have a good reason for refusing to respond to numerous deposition questions,
necessitating this motion. 
However,
the requested sanctions are excessive because Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification in opposing the motion (as shown by the Court’s ruling above,
denying the request to compel answers to a considerable number of questions). 
Therefore,
Defendant’s request for sanctions is granted, but in the reduced amount of $3,980.
That amount consists of 8 hours of defense counsel’s time at his billing rate
of $285 per hour (equals $2,280, plus the requested deposition costs of $1,700).

           
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is denied. 
           The Motion to Compel Plaintiff
to Answer Deposition Questions and Request for Sanctions is granted in part and
denied in part as follows. The request to compel answers to Deposition
Questions Nos. 2-14, 20, 25-27, 30-32, 37, 40, 44-46, 54, 55, 61, 64, and 66 is
granted. The request to compel answers to all other deposition questions is
denied. The request for sanctions is granted in the amount of $3,980. Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay $3,980 to Defendant TCK Alhambra LLC
within 30 days of this order. 
  
Dated: August 7, 2024                                        
                                                                                
      JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT