 Case Number:  21STLC07410    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  26  
Sung
v. Melgerai, et al.MOTION FOR LEAVE
TO AMEND PLEADING(CCP §§ 473(a), 576; CRC Rule 3.1324)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Toryalai Melgerai and Maricela Saucedo’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT IS TO BE FILED
AND SERVED WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff
Oe-Jung Sung dba WS Construction Company filed the instant action for breach of
contract and common counts against Defendants Toryalai Melgerai and Maricela
Saucedo on October 12, 2021. Defendants Toryalai Melgerai and Maricela Saucedo
(“Cross-Complainants”) filed an answer and Cross-Complaint on January 14, 2022
and January 19, 2022, respectively. The Cross-Complaint alleged causes of
action for breach of contract, declaratory relief, and unfair business
practices against Plaintiff Oe-Jung Sung dba WS Construction Company
(“Cross-Defendant”).
 
Cross-Complainants
filed the instant Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint on January
16, 2024. To date, no opposition has been filed regarding the instant Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
Discussion
 
Cross-Complainants move for leave
to file a First Amended Complaint in order to add a cause of action for fraud and misrepresentation. (Notice, p. 2:1-3.)
The Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a), which permits leave to amend upon the Court’s order. A motion
for leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements
of California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth
explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating
what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment
was not made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed
and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
A copy of the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint is
attached to the supporting declaration and the Motion sets forth what changes
are to be made and where. (Motion, Saucedo, Exh. A.) The declaration explains
that in November 2023,
Cross-Complainant Melgerai conducted
exploratory digging at the base of the sheer wall installed by Cross-Defendant
and discovered it had been installed without any foundation. (Motion, Melgerai
Decl., ¶¶21, 23.) Cross-Complainant Melgerai contends that a foundation is necessary to the integrity of
weight-supporting shear walls and to meet the specifications in seismic
retrofit codes. (Id. at ¶22.) Cross-Defendant had represented that the shear
wall provided the necessary structural support and integrity required by
the seismic retrofit and building codes. (Id. at ¶24.) Cross-Complainant
Melgerai believes Cross-Defendant’s representations were false. (Id. at
¶25.) 
 
The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . . .” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) However, “[a] different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Ibid.) Here, the Court finds Cross-Complainants
have demonstrated the basis for seeking leave to amend based on the new
information obtained in November 2023 and that Cross-Defendant, who has not
opposed the Motion, will not be prejudiced. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Toryalai Melgerai and Maricela Saucedo’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT IS TO BE FILED
AND SERVED WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 