 Case Number:  24STLC00028    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  26 
 
Koury
v. On the House Homes and Loans, Inc., et al.MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE(CCP § 418.10)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Specially Appearing Defendants On
the House Homes and Loans, Inc. and Mark Gershick’s Motion to Quash Service of
the Summons and Complaint is GRANTED AS TO ON THE HOUSE HOMES AND LOANS, INC.
AND DENIED AS TO MARK GERSHICK. DEFENDANT MARK GERSHICK IS TO FILE A RESPONSIVE
PLEADING TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff Ken
Koury (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed the Complaint in this action
against Defendants On the House Homes and Loans, Inc. (“Defendant OTHHL”) and
Mark Gershick (“Defendant Gershick”). No proof of service has been filed. The
Motion to Quash was filed by Defendants on February 26, 2024. No opposition has
been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendants move to quash service
of the Summons and Complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff did not serve
them in the statutorily required manner. The Motion is brought pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 418.10, which states: “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: To quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or
her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1), emphasis added.) The Motion is timely because no proof of service of
the Summons and Complaint has been filed with the Court, so the time for
Defendants to file a responsive pleading has not yet passed. 
 
Where service is challenged, the
burden is on the plaintiff to prove the facts requisite to an effective
service. “When a defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the
ground of improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove
the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413; see also Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1160.) However,
a proof of service containing a declaration from a registered process server
invokes a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of
the facts stated in the return. (Cal. Evid. Code, § 647; see American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.)
 
As no proof of service has been
filed, Defendants provide declarations setting forth the manner of service
effectuated by Plaintiff. Specifically, they show that on January 26, 2024, an
unknown individual handed papers to Diana Delgado Gershick (“Diana Gershick”)
at 10064 Claire Avenue, Northridge, California. (Motion, Diana Gershick Decl.,
¶4.) There were no prior attempts at service from the time of the filing of the
Complaint. (Id. at ¶7.) 
 
Service on a corporation must
conform to Code of Civil Procedure section 416.10 by delivery to the person
designated as agent for service of process, or “[t]o the president, chief
executive officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, a
secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a
controller or chief financial officer, a general manager, or a person
authorized by the corporation to receive service of process.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 416.10, subds. (a) and (b).) Diana Gershick is not an agent for service of
process for Defendant OTHHL, nor an officer, corporation head, or manager, or
otherwise authorized to accept service of process. (Motion, Diana Gershick
Decl., ¶¶1-3.) Therefore, delivery of the papers to Diana Gershick does not
amount to statutory service on Defendant OTHHL. 
 
Substitute service on an
individual must conform to Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20:
 
(a)   In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and
complaint to the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20,
416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or her office . . . .
(b)   If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable
diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in
Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a
copy of the summons and complaint at the person's dwelling house, usual place
of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address . . . .
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subds.
(a) and (b).) Although the Motion focuses on subdivision (b), which requires
reasonable diligence to effectuate personal service, subdivision (a) allows
service to the individual’s office without any attempts at personal service.
The Motion does not demonstrate that the service address, 10064 Claire Avenue,
Northridge, California, is not Defendant Gershick’s office. Therefore, the
Court cannot find that service on Defendant Gershick did not comply with the
statutory requirements. 
 
Conclusion
 
Specially Appearing Defendants On the House Homes and
Loans, Inc. and Mark Gershick’s Motion to Quash Service of the Summons and
Complaint is GRANTED AS TO ON THE HOUSE HOMES AND LOANS, INC. AND DENIED AS TO
MARK GERSHICK. DEFENDANT MARK GERSHICK IS TO FILE A RESPONSIVE PLEADING TO THE
COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 