 Case Number:  22STCV25817    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority
Resp. Party:    Defendants Katya Bakalinskaya, Michael Bykov,
and VMB, LLC 
 
 
The Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On August 10, 2022, Plaintiff Mountains
Recreation and Conservation Authority filed its Complaint against Defendants
Katya Bakalinskaya, VMB LLC, and Michael Bykov on causes of action arising from
the alleged development of property on a conservation easement. 
 
        On September 8, 2022, Defendants filed
their Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On December 8, 2022, the Court scheduled
trial in this matter for December 18, 2023.
 
        On November 15, 2023, pursuant to
Plaintiff’s ex parte request, the Court continued the trial date from December
18, 2023 to May 28, 2024. The Court ordered that no further continuances were
allowed. 
 
        On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Notice of Lis Pendens.
 
        On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint. In support of its Motion,
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Samantha B. Marconi; (2)
Proposed Order; and (3) Proof of Service. 
 
        On March 21, 2024, Defendants filed
their Opposition to the Motion. In support of their Opposition, Defendants
concurrently filed Declaration of Elizabeth M. Thompson.
 
        On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Reply in support of the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
 
        “Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
“A separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) The reason why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Super. Ct. (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Leave to amend is thus liberally granted,
provided there is no statute of limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) The Court
may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. (Ibid.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff moves the Court for leave to file
its proposed First Amended Complaint. (Motion, p. 9:26–27.) Plaintiff argues
that the Court should grant leave to amend so that Plaintiff may: (1) include
previously unknown and related allegations; and (2) assert a cause of action
for declaratory relief. (Id. at p. 8:20–23.)
 
Defendants disagree, arguing: (1) that
Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in bringing its Motion; and (2) that Plaintiff’s
new cause of action is time barred. (Opposition, pp. 5:12, 8:1.)
 
In its Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that
Defendants will not be prejudiced if the Court grants the Motion; (2) that
Plaintiff was not dilatory in bringing its Motion; (3) that the new cause of
action is not time barred because Defendants’ trespass is continuing; (4) that
Defendants cannot acquire a prescriptive easement against Plaintiff because
Plaintiff is a public entity; and (5) that the Declaration of Elizabeth M.
Thompson because it is inadmissible hearsay and without proper authentication.
(Reply, pp. 2:5–6, 3:7, 4:10–11, 6:5–6, 6:16–18.)
 
B.      California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324
 
Plaintiff complied with California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324.
 
First,
Plaintiff’s Counsel submitted a copy of the proposed amended pleading. (Motion,
Exh. 1.)
 
Second,
Plaintiff’s Counsel also submitted a red-lined copy of the proposed amended
pleading is red-lined version, which shows exactly where additions and
deletions would be made. (Decl. Marconi, Exh. A.)
 
        Finally,
Plaintiff’s Counsel declares: (1) that the effect of the proposed pleading is
to include allegations related to Defendants’ use and improvement of a building
located on an adjacent property; (2) that the proposed amendments are necessary
and proper to allow Plaintiff to seek relief for all of Defendants’ allegedly
wrongful conduct related to the subject matter of this action in a single
lawsuit; (3) that the facts giving rise to the proposed amendments was
discovered in or around September 2023; and (4) that the reason the request for
the proposed amendments was not made earlier was because of a mediation and
ongoing negotiation between the Parties. (Decl. Marconi, ¶¶ 6–10.)
 
C.      Timeliness
and Prejudice
 
        According to Plaintiff’s
Counsel:
 
(1)       Plaintiff learned
in or about September 2023 that “it needed to file an amended complaint to
include allegations related to Defendants’ use and improvement of the building
located on the Adjacent Property.” (Decl. Marconi, ¶ 7.) 
 
(2)       Plaintiff’s Counsel
then waited until November 2023 to begin drafting the Motion. (Ibid.) 
 
(3)       Plaintiff’s Counsel
then stopped work on the Motion in December 2023 so that the Parties could
mediate this matter. (Ibid.)
 
(4)       The Parties
attended a mediation on January 26, 2024, which was not fruitful. (Id. at
¶ 8.)
 
(5)       Plaintiff’s Counsel
then waited until March 12, 2024 to file the Motion. 
 
The timeline provided does not explain why
the Motion was not filed earlier. Plaintiff’s Counsel admits that the proposed
amendments were known as of September 2023 — but there is no adequate
explanation for why the requested for leave to amend was not made around that
time. Instead, it seems the Motion was not even done by December 2023 and that
another six weeks or so passed after the mediation before the Motion was filed.
 
The Court’s concern is the timeliness of this
Motion. The Court has previously continued trial in this matter and stated that
no further continuances would be allowed. (Minute Order dated November 15,
2023.)  The Court does not understand why
Plaintiff did not inform the Court of a possible amendment to the Complaint when
its ex parte motion to continue the trial was granted on November 15, 2023.  
 
Trial is scheduled for May 28, 2024.  The proposed amendments include the alleged
trespass of an adjacent property that was not mentioned in the Complaint.
Accordingly, it appears to the Court that further discovery might be necessary.
Further discovery would require a further continuance of trial. There is not
sufficient time for discovery and discovery-related motions without either a
continuance or a very high risk of prejudice to Defendants.
 
It does not appear to the Court that the
proposed amendments involve compulsory causes of action that would be barred by
denial of leave to amend the pleading. On the contrary, Plaintiff’s Counsel indicates
that a second action could be brought regarding the allegations surrounding the
adjacent property. (Decl. Marconi, ¶ 10.)
 
The Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
The Court need not and does not reach further
issues, such as whether the new allegations are time barred by the statute of
limitations. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint is DENIED.
 