  Case Number:  23SMCV02534    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion by plaintiff for summary adjudication.  Because there are disputed issues of material
fact, the motion is DENIED.  
 
The undisputed facts are these.  A piece of property located at 120 Northstar
Mall, Los Angeles, CA  90292 was being
sold at a nonjudicial foreclosure auction. 
The auction took place on April 20, 2023.  Plaintiff attended the auction and submitted
the highest bid at the time, which was $810,000.  Plaintiff tendered a cashier’s check on the
spot for $850,000 and received a $40,000 refund representing the overage.  Once upon a time, that would have been the
end of the matter; a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale (TDUS) would have issued as a
matter of course and plaintiff would own the property.  However, the law was amended recently.  Now, a successful bidder will get an
immediate deed only if the bidder presents a declaration stating that the
bidder intends to live on the property or that it will be offered as affordable
housing.  If there is no such
declaration—and plaintiff agrees that he did not submit such a declaration—then
the trustee must hold off.  If during the
time allowed by law another bidder submits a notice of intent to bid and in
fact makes a higher bid and submits the required declaration and tenders the
money, then the other bidder is the successful bidder and the TDUS goes to that
person.  In the lawsuit, but not in this
motion, plaintiff asserts that the trustee’s office suggested that he file such
an affidavit even if it was not true. 
(That is not a part of this motion because it is obviously
contested.  Plaintiff well understands
that he must rely only upon undisputed assertions of fact.)  On May 5, 2023, Jeff Bord emailed the trustee
a Notice of Intent to Bid on behalf of Montano. 
This was so even though Montano does not and did not know who Jeff Bord
was.  On the 45th day after the auction,
Giraudo submitted $1,027,600 in funds to the trustee on behalf of Montano—an
amount that is greater than plaintiff’s $810,000 bid.  On June 1, 2023, after the $1,027,600 bid was
submitted, Montano executed a note reflecting a debt in favor of Wei Ping for
$1,500,000, which was secured by the property.  
That note was recorded on June 26, 2023, and again on July 13,
2023.  On June 8, 2023, based on the
$1,027,600 bid, the trustee issued a TDUS to Montano, which included a copy of
the required declaration.  Oddly, the
recorded copy of the TDUS contains a different declaration than the one sent to
the trustee, although defendant contends that the change is to reflect a
technical error and is not material. 
Plaintiff contests the trustee’s decision to declare Montano the
successful bidder, and plaintiff has tendered the $810,000 to quiet title in
his favor.  The court believes that all
of the facts above are truly undisputed by the defense.
 
Plaintiff’s theory is that Bord’s Notice of Intent to Bid
was not proper.  In part, this is
because, according to plaintiff, it was not sent in the proper fashion, but
also in part because it was done without authorization in that Montano does not
know who Bord is or was.  Montano states,
though, that he authorized Giraudo to create the NOI (Giraudo says the same),
and Montano does recall electronically signing the NOI.  (Montano Decl., ¶¶3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13; Giraudo Decl., ¶¶3, 5, 8, 11, 12.) 
Giraudo states that he gave Bord the ministerial job of transmitting the
NOI, but that is a clerical function, not a substantive one.  (Ibid., as to Giraudo Decl.)  Accordingly, the defense contends, it does
not matter whether or not Montano knows who Bord is.  Plaintiff contends that the signature on the
NOI is not Montano’s, but the evidence does not really support the
assertion.  There is an expert
declaration that the signature does not appear to be Montano’s, but that
declaration also admits of the possibility that it is an electronic signature,
not a regular “wet ink” signature. 
That’s important because in today’s world, an electronic signature often
bears no relation to a person’s handwritten signature.  Rather, authentication is done through other
electronic means.  Here, Montano states
that this was indeed an electronic signature, and that he signed it in that
fashion.  Plaintiff also states that the
package with the cashier’s check contained Giraudo’s cell phone number and
address, not Montano’s.  In response,
defendant contends that it was Giraudo’s cell phone, but someone else’s
address.  However, Montano states that he
authorized as much to be sure that the deed of trust securing the loan to Wei
Ping could be recorded promptly and properly. 
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to quiet title here.  The theory is that the later bid does not
comply with the requirements of the Civil Code, and therefore it is
invalid.  It is certainly true that if a
bid was made on the purported buyer’s behalf without the buyer’s knowledge and
approval, it will be invalid.  But that
is hotly disputed.  While plaintiff
introduced some evidence that might lead one to such a conclusion—the use of
Bord, for example, or the various addresses—that is contested.  Montano states that he knew he was bidding on
this property and authorized Giraudo to deal with the means of getting the bid
submitted to the trustee.  The court
cannot say, as a matter of undisputed fact, that Montano’s bid was
unauthorized.  Plaintiff also states that
even if it were authorized, the bid is invalid because it was not submitted in
the proper way—by certified or overnight mail. 
That, plaintiff says, is a technical violation of Civil Code section
2924m(c).  That statute requires that
bids be submitted by certified mail, overnight delivery, or other method that
allows for confirmation of the delivery date, and must also include a current
telephone number and return mailing address for the bidder.  The court is not convinced that the method of
sending the bid is a problem.  The method
used seems to “allow[] for confirmation of the delivery date,” which is the
reason for the certified or overnight requirement.  The Legislature did not want debates or grey
areas as to when a bid was in fact delivered. 
It was not that the Legislature loved certified mail but hated
electronic means or other means that eliminated ambiguity.  Similarly, the court is not convinced that
using another person’s cell number or address is a substantial violation so
long as the bidder could be reached in that fashion.  The point of that seems to be to ensure that
the trustee can contact the bidder and return various documents to the
bidder.  The court cannot say on this
record that the phone number or address was one that would have frustrated that
purpose.  It might be that these
violations will ultimately be sufficient to invalidate the sale,, but the court
cannot so state that such is the case as a matter of law on this record.
 
In short, the court cannot conclude as a matter of
undisputed fact that the successful bid was submitted without Montano’s
knowledge or approval or without his signature. 
Nor can the court conclude as a matter of undisputed fact that there was
a material violation in the bidding process set forth by the Civil Code.  It is worth stepping back for a moment.  The purpose of the legislation at issue here
is to encourage foreclosure sales to go to a person who will live in the unit
or rent it out as affordable housing.  It
also has the benefit of potentially increasing the amount of the sale, which
will inure to the defaulted borrower’s benefit. 
As such, the court is disinclined to read the statute in an overly
technical way that frustrates those purposes. 

 
Defendant makes a number of other arguments.  For example, defendant suggests that even if
defendant’s bid had defects, there was another bid that had no defects that was
also higher than plaintiff’s bid.  While
that person would not (in defendant’s view) ultimately get the property because
(again, in defendant’s view) defendant should get it, it means that plaintiff
is not entitled to quiet title in any event. 
The court does not, and need not, so hold; the court is merely saying
that this is another area of dispute. 
And plaintiff also has other arrows in his quiver for later.  Plaintiff argues that Montano’s declaration
is not honest in that he actually did not intend to live in the property—that
he is only doing so because of this litigation. 
He also claims that the trustee corruptly encouraged people to submit
false declarations.  He further contends
that the bids were not actually timely. 
All of those, if proven at trial, could well lead plaintiff to
victory.  But not today, for all of those
avenues are disputed and therefore must run through trial, not summary
adjudication.
 
Because there are disputed issues of material fact, the
motion must be DENIED.