 Case Number:  22STCV06907    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 24, 2022, Plaintiff Yenly Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Maria de Jesus Pacheo (“Pacheo”), Fernando Valdivia
Villanueva (“Villanueva”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
August 24, 2023, the Court dismissed the complaint without prejudice. 
On
February 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the dismissal, to be
heard on May 17, 2024. The Court continued the hearing on the motion to July 1,
2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to vacate the dismissal. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b),
provides in part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this
section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to
trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
moves for relief from dismissal under the mandatory and discretionary
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).  Plaintiff’s counsel has submitted a declaration which
establishes Plaintiff's entitlement to relief.  The Court grants the motion and vacates the dismissal. 
Based
on the statements in counsel’s declaration, counsel should consider whether his
continued representation of Plaintiff is appropriate. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Yenly Garcia’s
motion to vacate the August 24, 2023 order dismissing the case. 
The
Court sets a OSC Re: Dismissal for Failure to Serve Summons and Complaint on Defendant on July 24,
2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.