  Case Number:  19STCV34535    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
September 27, 2019, Plaintiffs Fanfan Jiang, individually and as successor in
interest and heir to the estate of Xuezhong Bao, and Kaijia Bao filed this
action against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”), Peter Munoz (“Munoz”), and Does 1-20 for negligence, dangerous
condition of public property (Gov. Code, § 835), battery, wrongful death, and
survival action (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.20). 
On
July 31, 2020, Plaintiff Fanfan Jiang (“Plaintiff”), individually and as
successor in interest and heir to the estate of Xuezhong Bao (“Decedent”),
filed a first amended complaint. 
On
December 29, 2020, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. 
On
January 28, 2021, based on the parties’ stipulation, the Court continued the
trial from March 26, 2021 to February 25, 2022, and ruled that discovery
and motion cut-off dates would be based on the new trial date. 
On
June 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint. 
On
October 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed a fourth amended complaint against Defendants
Metro, Munoz, and Does 1-20 for negligence
of public employee(s) (Gov. Code, § 815.2), dangerous condition of public
property (Gov. Code, § 835), battery, wrongful death, and survival action (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.20). 
On
November 8, 2021, Metro filed an admission that the operator of the Metro Rail
train involved in the incident described in the operative complaint was its
employee who was acting within the course and scope of employment with Metro in
the operation of the train at the time of the incident. Metro further admitted
that if its employee was found at fault and liable for a share, or all, of
Plaintiff’s damages due to the operation of the train, then Metro, by virtue of
vicarious liability for its employee’s acts (respondeat superior), also will be
liable to Plaintiff for the same percentage of Plaintiff’s damages as the
employee train operator is found to be. 
On
December 21, 2021, the Court granted Metro’s motion to continue the trial from
February 25, 2022 to January 18, 2023 and found good cause to continue the
related discovery dates. 
On
January 10, 2022, Metro filed an answer. 
On
January 4, 2023, the Court granted Metro’s ex parte application to continue the
trial from January 18, 2023 to October 18, 2023. The Court ruled that all
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates would be associated with the new
trial date. 
On
August 23, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue
the trial from October 18, 2023 to April 18, 2024, but denied without prejudice
Plaintiff’s request that discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates trail the
new trial date. 
On
October 16, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to re-open discovery and
ordered that all dates would trail the April 18, 2024 trial date. 
On
March 19, 2024, based on the parties’ stipulation, the Court continued the
trial to September 25, 2024 and ordered that related dates would be based on
the new trial date. 
The
trial is currently scheduled for September 25, 2024. 
B.   This motion 
On
February 2, 2024, Metro filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  On
June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
On June 26, 2024, Metro filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Metro
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
METRO’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          Sustained: Exhibit 3: 1, 2, Exhibit 5: 1, 2 Exhibit 6: 1, 2 Ronnie Williams Declaration, Objections 4-7
          Overruled: Exhibit 8: 1, 2, 3 Ronnie Williams Declaration, Objections 1-3 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn
from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable
to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Common carrier’s duty to protect passengers from assault
by fellow passengers
Civil
Code section 2100 provides: 
“A carrier of persons for reward must use the utmost
care and diligence for their safe carriage, must provide everything necessary
for that purpose, and must exercise to that end a reasonable degree of skill.” 
(Civ. Code, § 2100.) 
          In Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1085)
40 Cal.3d 780 (Lopez), the Supreme Court held that “Civil Code section
2100 imposes upon all common carriers—public or private—a duty of utmost care
and diligence to protect their passengers from assaults by fellow passengers.”  (Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p.
791.) The Court noted, however, that “carriers are not insurers of their
passenger’s safety and will not automatically be liable, regardless of the
circumstances, for any injury suffered by a passenger at the hands of a fellow
passenger.  Rather, a carrier is liable for injuries resulting from an assault
by one passenger upon another only where, in the exercise of the required
degree of care, the carrier has or should have knowledge from which it may
reasonably be apprehended that an assault on a passenger may occur, and has the
ability in the exercise of that degree of care to prevent the injury.”  (Ibid.) 
          The plaintiffs in Lopez alleged “that RTD is a common
carrier, that plaintiffs were passengers on board one of RTD’s buses, that RTD
knew assaults regularly occurred on this bus route, and that the bus driver had
been specifically notified that a violent argument had erupted among the passengers.”  (Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p.
795.)  The Court held that “[t]hese
facts, if true, give rise to a duty of care on behalf of RTD to protect
plaintiffs from assaults by fellow passengers.” 
(Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The fourth amended complaint 
The
fourth amended complaint alleges the following: 
On
November 27, 2018, Decedent boarded Metro’s Gold Line rail at the APU/Citrus
College Station in Azusa for a trip to Pasadena.  Munoz attacked and stabbed Decedent on the
railcar, which continued along its route. 
Decedent was found mortally wounded in the railcar.  The delay in receiving care contributed to
Decedent’s death from his stab wounds. 
Metro
was aware that non-paying, mentally ill transients harassed and attacked Metro
patrons but did not take reasonable steps to prevent the attacks.  Metro had reasonable cause to anticipate third
parties’ criminal acts and resulting injuries and failed to take affirmative
steps to control the wrongful conduct on its railcar. 
The
fourth amended complaint asserts the following claims against Metro: (1) first cause of action for negligence of public
employee(s) under Government Code section 815.2, (2) second cause of action for
dangerous condition of public property under Government Code section 835, (3)
fourth cause of action for wrongful death, and (4) fifth cause action for
survival action under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.20. 

B.   Undisputed facts 
Metro’s
Gold Line runs from Union Station in Downtown Los Angeles to “APU” Azusa
Pacific/Citrus station.  On November 27,
2018, Munoz boarded the Metro Gold Line at the APU/Citrus PAX station at
approximately 11:12 a.m.  Decedent
boarded the Metro Gold Line at the Azusa station at approximately 11:18
a.m.  
CCTV
video of the interior of the train cars showed that Decedent was sitting on a
train bench or seat when Munoz walked over and, without saying a word, plunged
a knife into Decedent’s chest and heart at 11:19 a.m.  The stab wound was between two and a half and
three inches deep and was the cause of death. 
A paramedic
was dispatched at 11:28 a.m. and arrived at 11:35 a.m.  When the paramedic arrived, Decedent had no
electrical activity in his heart.  The
paramedic estimated that cardiac arrest occurred at 11:25 a.m. 
Jennifer
Carino (“Carino”), a passenger and witness, testified that homeless people
“would frequent public transportation and sometimes cause or display a form of
public disruption.”  Carino testified
that she encounters homelessness on the Metro and that the Gold line was
dangerous as it pertains to homelessness. Carino
testified that throughout her experience on public transportation, she
experienced an increase in homeless people, which included urinating on
stairwells, sleeping on the platforms, hiding in public restrooms that are
provided by the Gold Line stations, needles on the floor and around the Gold
Line train and station.  With the increase in homeless people at
stations, there was a decrease in workers and upkeep at stations.  The increase in homeless persons entering the
Metro was because no one was monitoring the homeless situation. 
At
the time of the incident, Metro had one employee on the Gold Line train, train
conductor Pamela Parker Ehrich.  Approximately
80 people worked in Metro’s transit security division.  (In 2024, 176 people work in this division.)   
In
2016, Metro began hiring form fare compliance officers/form checkers. Prior to
the incident, Metro began hiring “fare compliance officers” or “transit
security officer 1,” which is an unarmed security position with Metro.  In November 2018, no fare compliance officers were
assigned to the Gold Line.  Metro’s
uniformed “transit security officers 1s” or “fare compliance officers” are
there to ensure that Metro passengers are paying fares.  Clifton Ladage, Metro’s person most
knowledgeable, is unaware of any policies or procedures by which Metro will
deploy transit security offices to a particular location. 
The
Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department provided security detail and security
assistance as it relates to security on the Metro train lines.  Metro had a contract with the Sheriff’s
Department to provide safety for its commuters.  Metro took over fare compliance,
unarmed officers to provide security in addition to the LA Sheriff’s Department
contract [sic].  Ladage is unaware how the Sheriff’s
Department deploys personnel across Metro’s lines.  Ladage has never ridden a Metro Line and seen
a sheriff.   
In
November 2018, Metro employed approximately 80 transit security officers,
consisting of approximately 65 armed security officers and approximately 15
unarmed security officers.   Metro’s
armed security officers’ duties are different than fare checkers. Their duties
involve posting at the entry and exit into the buildings, walking around the
parking lots.  Metro’s unarmed security
officers’ duties involve riding the Metro lines. 
Metro
provided the following reports of deaths on the Metro train lines in the 5
years before the incident: Blue Line: None; Expo Line: None; Gold
Line: 5; Green Line: 3; and Red Line: 4. 
Metro
provided the following reports of assaults on the Metro train lines in the 5
years before the incident: Blue Line: 342; Expo Line: 159; Gold
Line: 160; Green Line: 138; and Red Line: 418. 
Metro
provided approximately 2,000 incident reports in the 5 years before the incident. 
C.   Metro’s motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication 
1.    Metro has carried its initial burden on the issue of
duty 
Citing
City and County of San Francisco v. Superior Court (1994) 31 Cal.App.4th
45 (City), Metro argues that a common carrier cannot be liable for a sudden
third-party assault that occurs without warning.  According to Metro, a duty to protect
passengers from assault exists only when
the common carrier knows or should know that an assault is about to occur.  Here, Metro contends, Plaintiff cannot provide
evidence that Metro knew or should have known that Munoz was going to stab Decedent. 
In City,
a man on a City bus suddenly stabbed another passenger.  The victim sued the City, alleging it was
negligent for failing to prevent the stabbing. 
The City moved for summary judgment, arguing that it could not be found
negligent for failing to prevent an attack which occurred without warning. The
trial court denied the City’s motion, finding that whether the driver had or
should have had warning of the attack was a triable issue of fact.  (City, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 47-49.) 
The
Court of Appeal granted the City’s petition for a writ of mandate, holding that
(1) the evidence showed the attack came without warning and (2) some slight
evidence of two prior assaults in the past year on the same bus line, adduced
without specific factual underpinning, was insufficient to put the City on
notice that this particular assault was to take place. (City, supra,
31 Cal.App.4th at p. 49.)  The Court
reasoned: “The simple fact of two prior assaults at best could make a stronger
case that City’s drivers should respond to incidents of unruly passengers . . .
.”  (Ibid.)  But “the prior assaults cannot impose
liability for a sudden and unheralded attack.” 
(Ibid.)  Indeed, “[n]o
California case has held a common carrier liable for a sudden assault which
occurs with no warning. Such liability would literally require an armed
presence on every common carrier, which is precisely what Lopez decried
. . . .”  (Ibid., citing Lopez,
supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 787.) 
Here,
Metro served an interrogatory asking Plaintiff to “state all facts that support
[Plaintiff’s] contention that Metro had any warnings that Peter Munoz may
inflict injuries on any person before he inflicted injuries on [Decedent] that
caused his death.”  Plaintiff responded
(after asserting objections): “Mentally unstable individuals were allowed to
ride the trains without supervision.” 
Plaintiff’s response does not support a conclusion that Metro had
warning that Munoz would attack decedent. 
The Court finds that Metro has carried its initial burden on summary adjudication, shifting the burden to Plaintiff. 
2.    Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
argues that Munoz’s attack on Decedent was foreseeable because the history of
assaults on Metro’s trains established that there was a continuous increase in
crime on its rail lines.  In addition, Plaintiff
argues, Metro’s contract with the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department and Metro’s
use of fare compliance officers establishes that Metro was on notice of the
criminal acts of third parties. 
Plaintiff’s
argument rests on the premise that Metro can anticipate that people who are
homeless, transient, or mentally ill may attack passengers on its trains because
Metro knows that such attacks have happened in the past.  But to raise a triable issue of fact,
Plaintiff must present evidence that Metro had “notice that this particular
assault was to take place.”  (See City,
supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 49.) 
Plaintiff has not presented the required evidence.  Therefore, as a matter of law, Metro did not have
a duty to prevent Munoz’s attack on Decedent. 
          Plaintiff also contends that she has raised a triable issue
of fact concerning causation because “[Metro’s] own conduct contributed to the
harm.”  (Opposition p. 16.)  Because Metro owed no duty, the issue of causation
is moot.  Even assuming that Plaintiff is
asserting a separate basis for Metro’s purported duty, Plaintiff’s argument rests
on the same evidence already discussed – the history of assaults on Metro’s
trains and Metro’s allegedly inadequate response.  Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue. 
3.    The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for a continuance 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to continue the hearing on Metro’s motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).  Plaintiff filed her original complaint on
September 27, 2019.  Metro filed its motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication on February 2, 2024.  Plaintiff argues that Metro has failed to produce
a witness who can testify knowledgeably about prior similar incidents and Metro’s
custom and practice in responding to these attacks.  However, Plaintiff has not moved to compel
Metro’s compliance with Plaintiff’s deposition notices.  Moreover, Plaintiff does not contend that a
continuance will allow her to discover and present evidence that Metro had
notice of Munoz’s attack on Decedent.  The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for a continuance. 
4.    Summary adjudication rulings 
a.    First cause of action for negligence of public
employee(s) under Government Code section 815.2 
Government
Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), provides: 
“A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835, subd. (a).) 
          Based on the discussion above, the Court finds that Metro
has carried its initial burden on summary adjudication and Plaintiff has not
raised a triable issue of fact.  The
Court grants summary adjudication of the first cause of action in favor of Metro. 
b.    Second cause of action for dangerous condition of
public property under Government Code section 835 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
Based
on the discussion above, the Court finds that Metro has carried its initial
burden on summary adjudication and Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of
fact.  The Court grants summary
adjudication of the second cause of action in favor of Metro. 
c.     Fourth cause of action for wrongful death 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.60 provides in part: 
“A cause of action for the death of a person caused by
the wrongful act or neglect of another may be asserted by any of the following
persons or by the decedent's personal representative on their behalf: 
“(a) The decedent's surviving spouse, domestic
partner, children, and issue of deceased children, or, if there is no surviving
issue of the decedent, the persons, including the surviving spouse or domestic
partner, who would be entitled to the property of the decedent by intestate
succession. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60,
subd. (a).) 
Based
on the discussion above, the Court finds that Metro has carried its initial
burden on summary adjudication and Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of
fact.  The Court grants summary
adjudication of the fourth cause of action in favor of Metro. 
d.    Fifth cause of action: survival action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.20. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 277.20 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a cause
of action for or against a person is not lost by reason of the person’s death,
but survives subject to the applicable limitations period. 
“(b) This section applies even though a loss or damage
occurs simultaneously with or after the death of a person who would have been
liable if the person’s death had not preceded or occurred simultaneously with
the loss or damage.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.20.) 
Based
on the discussion above, the Court finds that Metro has carried its initial
burden on summary adjudication and Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of
fact.  The Court grants summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action in favor of Metro. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion
for summary adjudication and grants summary adjudication of Plaintiff Fanfan
Jiang’s (1) first cause of action for negligence of public employee(s) under
Government Code section 815.2, (2) second cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property under Government Code section 835, (3) fourth
cause of action for wrongful death, and (4) fifth cause action for survival
action under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.20. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.