 Case Number:  23STCV23119    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 25, 2023, Plaintiff William David Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Metro”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), the State of California, the California Department of
Transportation, and Does 1-50 for premises liability. 
On
November 8, 2023, the County filed an answer. 
Also
on November 8, 2023, Defendant The People
of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation, erroneously sued as “State of California, a public entity;
California Department of Transportation, a public entity” (“State”) filed an answer.  On June 14, 2024, the Court dismissed the State
without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
December 6, 2023, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
Also
on December 6, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Maltzman
Properties II LP Et Al C/O David H. Maltzman as Doe 1 and Shane, John L Tr Shane
Fam Trust as Doe 2. 
On December
7, 2023, Metro filed an answer. 
On
April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for appointment of a successor in
interest, to be heard on July 1, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 24, 2025. 
REQUEST 
Betty Darlen Martinez asks the Court to substitute her into the case as Plaintiff’s
successor in interest. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides: “On motion, after the death of a
person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by decedent's personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor-in-interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.32 provides: 
“(a) The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following: 
“(1) The decedent’s name. 
“(2) The date and place of the decedent’s death. 
“(3) 'No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate.' 
“(4) If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy
of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action
to the successor in interest. 
“(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof: 
“(A) 'The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.' 
“(B) 'The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on
behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest
in the action or proceeding.' 
“(6) 'No other person has a superior right to commence
the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding.' 
“(7) 'The affiant or declarant affirms or declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.' 
“(b) Where more than one person executes the affidavit
or declaration under this section, the statements required by subdivision (a)
shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact. 
“(c) A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
passed away on November 13, 2023, after filing this action.  Betty Darlen Martinez is Plaintiff’s mother.  Betty Darlen Martinez’s declaration satisfies
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.  Plaintiff's death certificate is attached as Exhibit B to counsel's declaration.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Betty Darlen Martinez’s motion to substitute into the case as
successor in interest to Plaintiff William David Martinez. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.