 Case Number:  23STCV09985    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The Motion to
Strike Plaintiff’s Prayer for Punitive Damages is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This action arises out of an alleged slip and fall that
occurred on May 22, 2021, at a CVS Pharmacy. On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff Essie
Grant (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint asserting causes of action or negligence
and premises liability against Garfield Beach CVS, LLC (“Defendant”), CVS Pharmacy
Inc.; and Does 1 through 20.
 
Defendant filed the instant motion seeking to strike
the request for punitive damages in the prayer for relief. Plaintiff did not file
an opposition. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §
436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has
irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity
with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
 
A motion to strike any pleading
must be filed “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days
after service of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court
order or stipulation. (CCP § 435(b)(1)). This does not affect the court's power
to strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading
upon a motion or at any time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant
satisfied the meet-and-confer requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a). 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
contends that the allegations contained in the Complaint, even if taken as
true, do not provide any basis for an award of punitive damages. Under Civil
Code section 3294, punitive damages may be awarded only when a plaintiff proves
by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has acted with “oppression,
fraud, or malice.” A motion to strike a request for punitive damages in a
complaint may be granted when the facts alleged in the complaint, if proven,
would still not support a finding of malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that she was injured when she slipped and fell on Defendants’
property, “which was not cared for, secured, cleaned, and/or maintained by
defendants.” (Complaint, ¶ 10.) “No visible signs were posted” warning of the
dangerous condition, Plaintiff alleges. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-12.) This is, as
pleaded, a case involving allegations of negligence and a breach of the duty of
care, not a case involving intentional wrongdoing, much less oppression, fraud,
or malice. Accordingly, the motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition or otherwise shown that there is any reasonable likelihood
that she could, by amendment, cure the defect and state a viable claim to recover
punitive damages. Accordingly, the motion to strike is granted WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant’s motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages (Complaint page 6,
prayer for relief, item 6) WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 