 Case Number:  23SMCV03493    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Southern
California Injured Workers LLC, v. Amigo Management CASE NO.:                23SMCV03493MOTION:                  OSC
Re: Preliminary Injunction HEARING DATE:   7/26/2024 Legal
Standard             Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 526(a), a preliminary injunction may be issued in the following cases:  1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually. 2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action. 3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.             4) When pecuniary compensation would
not afford adequate relief.  5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief. 6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings.             7) Where the obligation arises from
a trust.              In determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the trial court considers two factors: 1) the
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial
(CCP §526(a)(1)); and 2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the moving
party is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied compared to the harm
that the non-moving party is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the
merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners
Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) “[A] cause of action must exist before injunctive
relief may be granted.” (Id. (citing Shell Oil
Co. v. Richter (1942) 52 Cal.App.2d 164, 168).)                The court’s ruling on a preliminary
injunction is not an adjudication of the merits, is not a trial, and does not
require a statement of decision. (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors,
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286.) The judge is not required to state her reasons for
granting or denying a preliminary injunction; a cursory statement is
sufficient. (City of Los Altos v. Barnes, (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1198.) A proposed order must be presented to the judge for signature,
with any required undertaking, within one day after the preliminary injunction
is granted, or other time ordered by the judge. (CRC 3.1150(f).) EVIDENTIARY ISSUES              Cross-Defendants’ objections to the
Marchant declaration are GRANTED as to nos. 17-24 (foundation, personal
knowledge and legal conclusion). The remainder of objections are OVERRULED.             Cross-Complainant’s objections to
the Tantuwaya declaration are ruled on as follows:                  Sustained as to objections nos.
1 and 43.                  Sustained in part as to no. 3,
as to the portion starting with “who I later . . ..”                    Sustained in part as to no. 12,
as to the portion starting with “In February of 2022” and in “without my knowledge
and/or authority.”                  Sustained in part as to no. 44,
as to the portion starting with “Also, a total of . . .” and ending in “December
31, 2022.”                    All other objections are
OVERRULED.               Cross-Complainant’s objections to
the supplemental Winthrop declaration are OVERRULED.  The Court agrees that the attached documents
should have been part of a supplemental request for judicial notice.  The Court also agrees that while the Court
may take judicial notice of the documents’ existence, it cannot take judicial
notice of any factual assertions therein.                  Cross-Complainant’s objections to
the supplemental Marchant declaration are OVERRULED.                        Cross-Complainant’s request for
judicial notice is granted. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)             Cross-Defendants’ request for
judicial notice is granted. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) Analysis Cross-Complainant Funding4Doctors LLC
("Funding") moves for a preliminary injunction, enjoining
Cross-Defendants Injured Worker Medical Group, LLC ("IWMG") and Dr. Vrijesh
S. Tantuwaya from disbursing and/or otherwise dissipating funds collected and
being collected on behalf of Funding pursuant to 30 Masters Receivables Advance
Agreements ("Agreements 1-30"). Specifically, they request the
following order:  (1) Cross-Defendants are ENJOINED
from taking any action whatsoever that will dissipate the funds collected on
account of the thirty (30) Masters Receivables Advance Agreements (“Agreements
1-30”) as set for in the Verified Cross-Complaint filed by Funding, as well as
the Cross-Complaint filed by IWMG, including, but not limited to, paying,
disbursing, distributing, or otherwise dissipating funds collected and being
collected by IWMG;(2) Cross-Defendants are ORDERED to
provide Funding with an accounting of all funds collected on account of
Agreements 1-30 within fourteen (14) days of this Order, and to identify all
banks and/or financial institutions at which such funds are being held; and (3) Cross-Defendants are ORDERED to
provide a copy of this Order by Certified Mail to any and all banks and
financial institutions at which such funds are being held. Funding reasons that it will succeed
on the merits of their contract claims because the Agreements are admitted by
IWMG and personally guaranteed by Dr. Tantuwaya. Further, Funding will suffer “great
and irreparable injury” because Cross-Defendants may use and/or distribute the
amounts that are due under the Agreements, and by the time the case is over,
there may be no money left. (See Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Svcs., Inc.
v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414 [an injunction may be granted when a
party to the action is doing or threatens an act in violation of another
party's rights and tending to render the judgment ineffectual].) Funding does not meet its burden to
show its “irreparable harm,” such that the balance of equities favors an
injunction. Funding cites no substantive evidence that IWMG or Dr. Tantuwaya are
dissipating the disputed funds rendering ineffectual any resulting judgment. Funding
merely asserts in conclusory terms that the “funds are at risk of dissipation
by Cross-Defendants IWMG and Dr. Tantuwaya as they are attempting to use the
funds due to Funding for their own benefit to pay restitution to IWMG and Dr.
Tantuwaya's victims in the open and ongoing criminal investigation against Dr.
Tantuwaya.” (Marchant Decl., ¶ 18.) Cross-Defendants deny this assertion.
(Krieger Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Indeed, restitution could not be owed in an “open and
ongoing” criminal investigation. IWMG and Dr. Tantuwaya also present evidence
that they continue to generate funds and receivables through their ongoing
medical practices. (Tantuwaya Decl., ¶ 122.) Any judgment against them would therefore
not be “ineffectual.” Funding therefore fails to demonstrate irreparable harm. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED. 















































































































 