  Case Number:  23TRCV04142    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay ProceedingsThe court considered the moving papers. Plaintiff filed no opposition and Defendant no reply.RULINGThe motion is granted. The action is stayed in its entirety pending further order of the Court. The Court sets an OSC Re: Status of Arbitration for January 13, 2025.BACKGROUNDOn December 12, 2023, plaintiff Tamara Omotosho filed this employment action against defendant Automobile Club of Southern California, asserting eight causes of action for violationsof the federal Family and Medical Leave Act and California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act, wrongful termination in violation of public policy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and several violations of the Labor Code.On January 19, 2024, Defendant answered.On June 18, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel binding arbitration and stay these proceedings. Plaintiff filed her Case Management Statement on the same date; it indicates the parties have agreed to binding private arbitration. She filed no opposition to Defendant’s motion.LEGAL AUTHORITY“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists,” unless the party resisting arbitration shows that one of several enumerated exceptions applies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) A petition to compel arbitration must allege both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the controversy, and that a party to that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (Ibid.)DISCUSSIONDefendant advances an arbitration agreement authenticated by its Managing Counsel and signed by both parties on August 1, 2018, wherein the parties agreed to arbitrate “all claims of any nature or kind arising out of, relating to, or connected with this Arbitration Agreement or your employment with the Club, including, but not limited to, your application for employment, the hiring decision, your employment relationship or the termination of your employment, between you and the Club and/or any of its employees, agents, officers, or directors ... .” (Fermin Decl., Exh. 1, p. 2.)Defendant has established an arbitration agreement exists between the parties and that it applies to the dispute in question.Defendant has also established, via its motion, that Plaintiff has not agreed to arbitrate.Plaintiff has not opposed, and therefore has not satisfied her burden to show why the agreement should not be enforced. (In fact, her Case Management Statement suggests she has stipulated to the relief sought in this motion.)The motion is granted. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, the Court is also required to stay the action upon Defendant’s request.RULINGThe motion is granted. The action is stayed in its entirety pending further order of the Court.