  Case Number:  19STCV16639    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice filed by Defendants
Venco Power Sweeping, Inc and Menahem Roberto Solares.
 
Tentative
The hearing on the motion is continued for procedural
reasons.
Background
According to the Complaint, Plaintiffs Angela
Pope-Morgan, Asia Morgan, Alma Morgan, Kirk Morgan, and Sarah Morgan
(“Plaintiffs”) were injured on May 12, 2017, in a collision with a motor
vehicle driven by Defendant Leilei Chen on Interstate I-40 in New Mexico.  On May 13, 2019, Plaintiffs filed the Complaint
against Defendants Leilei Chen and FBM Group Corporation (“Defendants”) and
Does 1 through 25.  Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on August 13, 2019.  Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC on
September 6, 2019.
 
This matter has a long history, which the Court will not summarize
here.
 
As is
relevant to the matter set for hearing on July 30, Plaintiffs filed a motion on
June 14, 2024, for Paul W. Painter, III, Esq. to be admitted Pro Hac Vice.

 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Any
attorney licensed to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state, and who has been retained to appear in a particular
cause pending a court of this State, but who is not a licensee of the
California State Bar may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by
submitting his or her written application and mailing notice to all interested
parties, as well as notice and a $50.00 application fee to the State Bar
Association in San Francisco.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 (a), (c), (e).) 
An applicant may neither reside nor work in California and may not
perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State.  (Id. at Rule 9.40
(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
“A
person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file
with the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who
have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office.” (California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).)
 
Proof of
service shows service on the parties and not the State Bar of California.
 
Therefore,
the Court CONTINUES the hearing so that Plaintiffs may serve the State Bar.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing for approximately 30 days so that Plaintiffs may
comply with the requirements of Rule 9.40(c)(1).
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 