 Case Number:  21STCV36930    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial filed by Defendant Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC.
Tentative
The Court will call this matter and hear from
counsel.  
The Court is concerned that defendants have
not acted with appropriate diligence: they were aware of the conflict by February
2024, Defendant Renaissance did not retain new counsel until approximately late
May 2024, and Defendant Sunstone apparently still has not retained new
counsel.  (Zech Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)  Had defendants acted in a reasonably prompt
manner, a much shorter continuance (if any) would have been required, and it is
unclear to the Court why Plaintiff should have to wait for trial based on defendants’
lack of diligence.
The Court would also like to understand why
there has been such a delay in scheduling the  PMQ depositions of defendants (and Sunstone’s own
delay in retaining new counsel is not a particularly strong excuse).   
Background
On October 6, 2021, Dariole Gordy
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Renaissance Hotel Holdings, Inc. (“RHH”),
Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. (“Marriott”), Renaissance Los Angeles Airport
Hotel, Doe Property Owner, Doe Property Manager, Does Installer, and Does 1 through
100 for premises liability and general negligence arising out of a trip and
fall occurring on October 12, 2019.
On January 10, 2022, RHH, Marriott, and Renaissance
Hotel Operating Company, Inc. (erroneously sued as Renaissance Los Angeles
Airport Hotel) (“RHOC”) filed an answer.
On April 11, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC (“RHMC”) as Doe 1 and
Sunstone LA Airport, LLC (“Sunstone”) as Doe 2.
On June 13 and 17, 2022, RHMC and Sunstone
each filed an answer.
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff obtained an
order correcting the true name of Sunstone to Sunstone LA Airport Lessee, Inc. 
On January 25, 2023, RHH, Marriott, RHOC, RHMC,
and Sunstone (all represented by the same counsel) filed a cross-complaint
against JC Developers, Inc., and Roes 1 through 25.
On March 22, 2023, the Court, at the request
of Plaintiff, dismissed the claims in the complaint against RHH, Marriott, and
RHOC without prejudice.
On May 3, 2023, the cross-complainants
amended their cross-complaint to name Ironwood General, Inc. (“Ironwood”) as
Roe 1.  
On May 12, 2023, JC Developers, Inc. filed an
answer and a cross-complaint against Ironwood and Moes 1 through 100.
On June 2, 2023, the Court, at the request of
Plaintiff, dismissed the claims in the complaint against Renaissance Los
Angeles Airport Hotel without prejudice.
In or about February 2024, counsel for RHMC
and Sunstone discovered a conflict that made counsel unable to continue to
represent either entity in this matter. 
(Zech Decl., ¶ 4.)  It was not
until about three months later, in late May, that RHMC approached new counsel,
and in June 2024 new counsel substituted in for RHMC.  (Id., ¶ 5.) 
Sunstone, however, has not substituted in new counsel, and counsel for
Sunstone has not filed a motion to be relieved.
Also in February 2024, Plaintiff noticed PMQ
depositions for RHMC and Sunstone. 
(Miller Decl., ¶¶ 2, 6.)  These
PMQ depositions have not gone forward – or even been scheduled.  (Id., ¶¶ 4, 6.)
On July 5, 2024, RHMC filed this motion to
continue trial; trial is currently scheduled for October 1, 2024, and RHMC
requests a new trial date on or after February 17, 2025. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on July 17, and RHMC filed a reply on July 24.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
RHMC seeks a trial
continuance based on the recent substitution of counsel required based upon the
discovery of an ethical conflict.  
Based on the
evidence in the record, it appears that the conflict was discovered in February
2024.  (Zech Decl., ¶ 4.)  Nonetheless, for reasons that are not
explained, and with a trial date set for October 1, 2024, RHMC did not
substitute in new counsel until late June 2024, and Sunstone still has not
substituted in new counsel.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
The Court
understands that a required substitution of counsel (as opposed to a voluntary substitution
of counsel) is commonly good cause of a continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  But a party cannot force a continuance through
its own lack of diligence in retaining new counsel.
The Court will
hear from the parties on the following issues.
First, why did it
take RHMC so long to retain new counsel?
Second, now that
new counsel has been in place for more than a month, why has RHMC not offered
dates for its PMQ deposition?
Third, why has
Sunstone not yet substituted in new counsel – and why, given the conflict and
the delay by Sunstone, has Sunstone’s counsel not filed a motion to be
relieved?  Sunstone must understand that
the case is going to move forward, and Sunstone will not be able to force a
further continuance of trial based upon its own, unexplained, delay in
retaining new counsel.
Conclusion
The Court will
hear from counsel.