  Case Number:  22STCV26540    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CLEAN INITIATIVE LLC,
 
  
         vs.
 
MERCURY INSURANCE SERVICES, LLC,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV26540
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023



 
Defendant’s Motion
to Enforce Deposition Subpoena on Sunbelt Realty Services is denied.
 
Defendant California Automobile
Insurance Company, Inc. (erroneously sued as Mercury Insurance Services, LLC)
(“Defendant”) moves for an order enforcing compliance with the deposition
subpoena it served nonparty witness Sunbelt Realty Services (“Sunbelt”).
Defendant also seeks sanctions of $1,464 against plaintiff’s counsel, The
Morgan Law Group, for reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred as a result
of this motion.
 
          Background
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff Clean Initiative LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action. 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendant and Does 1 through 10, inclusive,
asserting two causes of action: (1) breach of contract; and (2) tortious bad
faith, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The SAC
alleges the following. Plaintiff is in the business of providing inspection
and, where necessary, repairs to the roofs of real property. (SAC ¶ 2.) On or
about April 1, 2022, at the request of Dora Kotthru (the “Policy Holder”),
Plaintiff performed an inspection of the roof of the real property located at
23112 Vanowen Street, Los Angeles, California 91307 (“Insured Property”). (SAC
¶ 2.) After performing the inspection and identifying the damage to be
repaired, Plaintiff received an Assignment of Insurance Benefits (“AOB”) from
the Policy Holder of Defendant’s insurance policy, which covered the Insured
Property and the damages sustained. (SAC ¶ 2.) In other words, instead of
paying Plaintiff directly, the Policy Holder assigned Plaintiff their rights
and benefits under their insurance policy covering the Insured Property. (SAC ¶
11.) Therefore, Plaintiff submitted a claim for payment directly to Defendant
for payment of the inspection and cost of repairs, but Defendant has denied,
refused to honor, and/or pay the submitted claim in breach of the insurance
contract and without substantial justification. (SAC ¶ 13.)
          On June 16,
2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to enforce deposition subpoena. On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition. On October 20, 2023,
Defendant filed its reply.
 
Legal
Standard
“[D]iscovery
from a nonparty may be obtained only by ‘deposition subpoena’ (§ 2020.010,
subd. (b)).” (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123,
130, italics removed.) “A business records subpoena directs the nonparty’s
custodian of records (or other qualified person) to deliver the requested
documents (in person, by messenger, or by mail) to the ‘deposition officer’ specified
in the subpoena. (§ 2020.430, subd. (a).)” 
(Id. at p. 131.)  
“A
deposition subpoena that commands only the production of business records for
copying shall designate the business records to be produced either by
specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing
each category of item, and shall specify the form in which any electronically
stored information is to be produced, if a particular form is desired.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)
“If
a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.480, subd. (a).)  
“This
motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record
of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), A court may make an
order “directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court
shall declare.”  (See also Civ. Code
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a) [providing that if a deponent fails to produce any
document “that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that…
production”].) 
 
Discussion
The Court finds the following issues
with Defendant’s motion.
 
Timeliness
Defense counsel
testifies that on April 13, 2023, the Policy Holder, through Plaintiffs’
counsel, objected to the subpoena. (Motion, declaration of Mary H. Kim (“Kim
Decl.”), ¶ 4; Exhibit B – a copy of the Objection.)
Therefore,
Defendant had 60 days from April 13, 2023, which was June 12, 2023, to file the
instant motion. (See Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange
County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1032 [“‘[T]he 60-day period during which
a motion to compel must be filed, begins to run when the deponent serves
objections on the party. At the time the objections are served, the record of
deposition is complete.’ [Citation.] ‘If [a party is] not satisfied with [the
nonparty’s] production of documents from its initial request, the time to file
a motion to compel was within 60 days of ... the date on which [the nonparty]
served its objections ….’ [Citation]”].)
Defendant argues
that the parties agreed to extensions. (Motion, Kim Decl., ¶¶ 8-12.)
However, the Court
has not found (and Defendant has not cited) any authority holding that the
parties can extend the 60-day deadline. Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6,
subdivision (a)(3)(B) extends by two court days “any right or duty to do any
act or make any response within any period or on a date certain after the
service of the document … by electronic means ….” However, even if that statute
applied here, Defendant filed the instant motion on Friday, June 16, 2023, more
than two court days after the deadline on Monday, June 12, 2023.  
Accordingly, the
motion is untimely. 
 
Service of
Deposition Subpoena 
Even if the motion
were timely, Defendant has not shown it properly served Sunbelt with the
deposition subpoena. 
“Any person may
serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it as follows: ¶ (1) If
the deponent is a natural person, to that person. ¶ (2) If the deponent is an
organization, to any officer, director, custodian of records, or to any agent
or employee authorized by the organization to accept service of a subpoena.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“Personal service
of any deposition subpoena is effective to require all of the following of any
deponent who is a resident of California at the time of service: ¶ (1) Personal
attendance and testimony, if the subpoena so specifies. ¶ (2) Any specified production,
inspection, testing, and sampling.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)
Here, Plaintiff
argues in its opposition that there is no proof that Defendant personally
served Sunbelt with the deposition subpoena. (Opposition, p. 5:16-22.)
In reply, Defendant
does not deny that it did not personally serve Sunbelt with the deposition
subpoena. Instead, it argues: “Plaintiff’s contention regarding improper
service is disingenuous as Plaintiff's counsel and defense counsel met and
conferred numerous times regarding the subpoena and Plaintiff's counsel never
objected based on improper service.” (Opposition, p. 4:24-26.)
However, as shown
above, the Code of Civil Procedure requires personal service of the deposition
subpoena. Otherwise, the subpoena is not “effective” in requiring Sunbelt to
produce the requested records. The fact that the parties met and conferred does
not solve the issue regarding whether Defendant properly served Sunbelt with
the deposition subpoena as required by the relevant statute. 
Therefore, the lack
of proper service of the deposition subpoena is grounds for denying the motion.

 
Service of Moving
Papers 
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1346, requires: “A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.”
Here, the Court
notes there is no proof of personal service of the moving papers on Sunbelt.
According to the proof of service attached to the moving papers, Defendant
served Sunbelt via mail. (See Motion, the second to the last page [presenting a
list of those served with the moving papers and stating that Sunbelt was served
through mail].) However, there is no evidence that Sunbelt agreed to accept
service through mail.
 
Conclusion
Defendant
California Automobile Insurance Company, Inc.’s (erroneously sued as Mercury
Insurance Services) Motion to Enforce Deposition Subpoena on Sunbelt Realty
Services is DENIED. 
Moving
party to give notice.
 
Dated:  October 27, 2023
                                                                             





  