 Case Number:  BC643861    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  71 A.C.A., LLC. V. Myron Jeppson Holmstrom

BC643861
 
1) Hearing
on Order to Show Cause Why Min Zhou should 
not be sanctioned for failing to appear at trial in person
2) Hearing
on Defendants/Cross-complainants
Paola Caldera’s; Mian Guo’s; Jia Shen’s; Yunying Li’s; Min Zhou’s; Yavuz Ertas’;
Nima Razfar’s; Ali Razfar’s; Jessica Caldera’s; Nadia Saban’s; Lebiba Saban’s;
Paul Luigi’s; Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg’s; Daniel Sacilotto’s; and Arnaud Larousse’s
motion to quash trial subpoenas 
3) Hearing
on A.C.A.’s motion to quash trial
subpoenas 
4) Requests
for Remote Appearances 
5) Hearing
on Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
6) Statement
of Decision
7)
Final Status Conference
 

1)
Order to Show Cause Why Min Zhou should 
not be sanctioned for failing to appear at trial in person
 
Background
Plaintiff
timely served Min Zhou’s counsel with a Notice to Appear at the trial of this
matter.  Ms. Zhou did not appear in
person, claiming that she was in Peru with her family.  Her counsel requested that she be allowed to
appear remotely.  Plaintiff
objected.  Over the Plaintiff’s
objection, the Court allowed Ms. Zhou to appear remotely, but ordered her to
show cause on October 3, 2023, why she should not have to reimburse Plaintiff
for the costs incurred by it as a result of Ms. Zhou’s failure to attend the trial
in person.  Ms. Zhou subsequently
requested the Court continue the hearing on the order to show cause to October
27, 2023.  
The
Court has considered Plaintiff’s 9/1/23 brief in support of sanctions, Ms. Zhou’s
two 10/3/23 oppositions, and Plaintiff’s 10/18/23 reply to those
oppositions.  
 
Discussion
A party may be compelled to appear at a trial if written
notice requesting the witness to attend trial is served upon the attorney of
that party or person.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.)  
Ms.
Zhou willfully disobeyed the Notice to Appear, and, without leave of court, elected
to appear remotely.  Ms. Zhou testified that
she was on vacation with her family in Peru. 
Ms. Zhou now confesses that she was not in Peru, and that her failure to
attend the trial in person was by choice. 

Ms.
Zhou’s counsel offers that the Notice to Appear did not specify that Ms. Zhou
was to physically appear in court.  The
Court finds this argument unavailing.  A
Section 1987 Notice to Appear is sufficient to compel a party to attend
trial.  A party wishing to appear at
trial remotely to seek leave of court to do so. 
(Code of Civ. Proc. § 3.67.75(d)(1). 
Ms. Zhou did not seek leave until the morning of her testimony.  As was indicated in the record, the Court was
not inclined to allow Ms. Zhou to testify remotely and contemplated striking
Ms. Zhou’s answer to the complaint and precluding her from testifying in her
case in chief on her cross-complaint.  Even
more unavailing is Ms. Zhou’s counsel’s argument that “Plaintiff could have
asked the court to suspend Ms. Zhou’s testimony and order Ms. Zhou to appear in
person the next day.” Plaintiff did not make any such request.” (Min Zhou’s Response,
15:4-4.)  This overlooks Ms. Zhou’s
misrepresentation to the Court that she was in Peru, a 9-hour flight from Los Angeles.  Ultimately, based upon Ms. Zhou’s representation
that she was in Peru and the Court’s need to move the case along, the Court allowed
Ms. Zhou to testify remotely, rather than precluding her from testifying at all.  As the record reflects, however, this was not
an acquiescence in Ms. Zhou’s disobeying the Notice to Appear.  
Code Civil Procedure section 1992  provides,
“A person
failing to appear pursuant to a subpoena or a court order also forfeits to the
party aggrieved the sum of five hundred dollars ($500), and all damages that he
or she may sustain by the failure of the person to appear pursuant to the
subpoena or court order, which forfeiture and damages may be recovered in a
civil action.”
Ms.
Zhou’s conduct negatively impacted the Court’s process and decorum and caused  Plaintiff’s counsel to spend additional time
and expense in questioning her due to the poor connection Ms. Zhou established
for her remote appearance and the additional logistics is required.  Ms. Zhou had difficulties connecting with her
computer and resorted to using her phone as her camera, causing the image transmitted
to be shaky, off subject, and revealing Ms. Zhou’s having appeared for her
testimony in only a T-shirt and panties. 
  
Plaintiff
has established that the delays caused by Ms. Zhou appearing remotely cost
Plaintiff $933.33 in attorney’s and court reporter’s fees and that the expense
in bring a motion to recover that amount, reviewing oppositions, preparing a
reply, and appearing at the hearing on the Order to Show Cause totals $8,177.66.  The Court finds that Ms. Zhou is therefore potentially
liable to Plaintiff for $9,610.99 (933.33+$8,177.66+$500).  
a) To preserve and
enforce order in the officer’s immediate presence, and in proceedings before
the officer, when the officer is engaged in the performance of official duty.
b) To compel obedience
to the officer’s lawful orders as provided in this code.
c) To compel the
attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding before the officer, in the
cases and manner provided in this code.
d) To administer oaths
to persons in a proceeding pending before the officer, and in all other cases
where it may be necessary in the exercise of the officer’s powers and duties.
e) To prohibit
activities that threaten access to state courthouses and court proceedings, and
to prohibit interruption of judicial administration, including protecting the
privilege from civil arrest at courthouses and court proceedings.
 
(Code Civil Procedure section 177.)
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5 provides, 
“A judicial officer shall have the power to
impose reasonable money sanctions, not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars
($1,500), notwithstanding any other provision of law, payable to the court, for
any violation of a lawful court order by a person, done without good cause or
substantial justification. This power shall not apply to advocacy of counsel
before the court. For the purposes of this section, the term “person” includes
a witness, a party, a party’s attorney, or both.
(Code Civil Procedure section 177.5.)
The
Court finds that Ms. Zhou should be sanction under Sections 177 and 177.5 for her
willful disobedience to the Notice of Appear and for lying about why she was
not personally present at the trial of this matter.
Ms.
Zhou’s opposition raises the issue that she may have been deprived of due
notice of the potential sanctions and the basis for the sanctions.  California Rules of Court, Rule 2.30 provides
that, 
“A court on its own motion may issue an order to show cause
that must (1) state the applicable rule that has been violated, (2) describe
the specific conduct that appears to have violated the rule, and (3) direct the
attorney, law firm, party, witness, or other person to show cause why sanctions
should not be imposed against them for violation of the rule.”
(California Rules of Court, Rule 2.30.)  
Ms. Zhou argues that she was not advised of the applicable rule
that she violated.  While
the Court is satisfied that Ms. Zhou was given adequate notice of the conduct
giving rise to the Order to Show Cause, and an opportunity to be heard on the
issues, she may not have been given notice of the specific applicable rules she
violated.  And now that Ms. Zhou has confessed
to perjury, that conduct must also be addressed.  Accordingly, the Court continues the hearing
on the Order to Show Cause subject to the notice given below.
  
Conclusion

The Court continues
the hearing on the Order to Show Cause. Ms. Zhou is ordered to show cause on
December 1, 2023, at 9:30 she should not pay Plaintiff $9,610.99 pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure sections 128.5 and 1922 and California Rules of Court rule
2.30(d) and $1,500 to the Court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 177,
177.5, for her willful failure to appear in person at the trial of this matter
and for lying to the Court and counsel about her whereabouts on the date of
trial.   
 

 
2)
Hearing on Defendants/Cross-complainants
Paola Caldera’s; Mian Guo’s; Jia Shen’s; Yunying Li’s; Min Zhou’s; Yavuz Ertas’;
Nima Razfar’s; Ali Razfar’s; Jessica Caldera’s; Nadia Saban’s; Lebiba Saban’s;
Paul Luigi’s; Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg’s; Daniel Sacilotto’s; and Arnaud Larousse’s
motion to quash trial subpoenas 
 
Defendants/Cross-complainants Paola Caldera (DOE 101); Mian Guo [erroneously
sued as Mian Gvo] (DOE 102); Jia Shen (DOE 103); Yunying Li [erroneously
sued as Yun Ying Li] (DOE 104); Min Zhou (DOE 105); Yavuz Ertas (DOE 112);
Nima Razfar (DOE 113); Ali Razfar (DOE 114); Jessica Caldera (DOE 115); Nadia
Saban (DOE 116); Lebiba Saban [erroneously sued as Lily Saban] (DOE 117);
Paul Luigi (DOE 118); Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg [erroneously sued as Janchung Ozu]
(DOE 119); Daniel Sacilotto (DOE 120); and Arnaud Larousse [erroneously sued
as Arnald LaRousse] (DOE 121) (collectively, “Defendants”) move to quash trial
subpoenas served by Plaintiff A.C.A. LLC (“ACA”).  (Notice Motion Defendants, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §1987.1.)
Cross-Defendants ACA and Damian Akhavi (“Akhavi”) (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) move unopposed to quash subpoenas issued and served
on First Foundation Bank, Bank of America, and JP Morgan Chase.  (Notice Motion Cross-Defendants, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §§1987.1, 1987.2.)
 
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §1987.1(a) provides, in pertinent part, as
follows: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness . . . at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party] . .
., may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
C.C.P. §1985.3(g) provides, in pertinent part, “[a]ny consumer
whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party
to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to
the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify
the subpoena duces tecum.”  (C.C.P. §1985.3(g).)
 
Discussion
The discovery cut-off in this action was May 2, 2022.  On October 3, 2023, ACA served ten (10)
notices to consumer with purported trial subpoenas attached thereto directed to
five separate banking institutions: 
1.     
JP Morgan Chase: 294 separate document requests as to Paola
Caldera, Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg, Arnaud Larousse, Nadia Saban, and Paul Luigi in
a single subpoena;
 
2.     
Wells Fargo Bank: 94 separate document requests as to Paola
Caldera and Ali Razfar in a single subpoena;
 
3.     
Citibank: 26 separate document requests as to Nima Razfar;
 
4.     
Moneygram Payment Systems: 8 separate document requests as to
Paola Caldera; and
 
5.     
Bank of America: 2 separate document requests as to Daniel
Sacilotto.
 
(Decl. of Riley ¶7, Exhs. 1-5.)
ACA’s trial subpoenas contain numerous requests seeking four
categories of documents:
(1)   
Documents that reflect “[t]he request” made by each Defendants to
their respective bank “to put a stop payment on the check” attached as an
exhibit;
 
(2)   
Documents “issued by” each bank “confirming that a stop payment
had been placed on the check” attached as an exhibit.
 
(3)   
Documents that reflect “[t]he request” made by each Defendants to
their respective bank “to put a stop payment on” specific checks by check and
bank account number; and
 
(4)   
Documents “issued by” each bank “confirming that a stop payment
had been placed on the check” identified by check and bank account number.
 
(See Decl. of Riley ¶7, Exhs. 1-5.)
The Judicial Council Form requires identification
of the specific documents sought to be produced at trial:
The witness has possession or control of the documents, electronically
stored information, or other things listed below, and shall produce them at the
time and place specified in the Civil Subpoena for Personal Appearance and
Production of Records at Trial or Hearing on page one of this form (specify
the exact documents or other things to be produce[d]…. 
 
(Decl.
of Riley Exhs. 1-5 at SUBP-002 pg. 2 of 3, emphasis added.)
The Form also requires an affidavit of “good cause.”
 (Id.)
“In the case of a trial subpoena, section 1985,
subdivision (b) requires that “[a] copy of an affidavit shall be served with a
subpoena duces tecum issued before trial, showing good cause for the production
of the matters and things described in the subpoena, specifying the exact
matters or things desired to be produced, setting forth in full detail the
materiality thereof to the issues involved in the case, and stating that the
witness has the desired matters or things in his or her possession or under his
or her control.”  (Terry v. SLICO
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 356.)  If
a trial subpoena is served without a copy of the affidavit “is invalid.”  (Id.; C.C.P. §1985(b).)
Here, ACA provided a conclusory affidavit of “good
cause” and thus, the subpoenas are invalid. The subpoenas states “good cause”
as follows: “The requested documents are material to this action as explained
in detail in Section 4 below, and Wells Fargo is the only source of business
records showing that Wells Fargo in fact put a stop payment on the checks
identified in Section 2 above pursuant to Defendants’ request.”
Section 4 of the trial subpoenas states:
Plaintiff is suing defendants … for unpaid rent. In or around May 2023,
when Plaintiff attempted to deposit the rent checks that Defendants had given
to Plaintiff, many of the checks were rejected by Wells Fargo because a stop payment
had been placed on the checks. Defendants’ act of putting a stop payment on the
rent checks is relevant to Defendants’ affirmative defenses to Plaintiff’s
unpaid rent claim, including, without limitation, statute of limitations, laches,
and failure to mitigate damages.
 
ACA’s affidavit is conclusory and without any
factual basis stated for the materiality of the documents sought. ACA does not
state how actions by Defendants requesting “stop payment” orders on stale dated
checks that only occurred on or after May 23, 2023, have any relevance to the
remaining claims alleged in the complaint.
Similarly, the affirmative defenses relied on by
ACA for the purported “materiality” of the documents were asserted by
Defendants in their Answer to the SAC filed on October 29, 2021—a year and seven
months prior to the current and newly alleged purported “breach of contract”
asserted by ACA.
The Court is not convinced by ACA’s assertion that
these documents are material and relevant evidence to dispute Defendants’
affirmative defenses to the claim asserted in the SAC.  ACA’s new breach of contract claim appears to
be based on a changed factual theory for breach, i.e., that Defendants breach
of their leases occurred in May 2023, two and a half years after the filing of
the SAC, “when Plaintiff attempted to deposit the rent checks that Defendants
had given to Plaintiff” and “many of the checks were rejected by [subpoenaed
banks] because a stop payment had been placed on the checks.”  ACA contends that the “act of putting a stop
payment on the rent checks,” years after the SAC was filed and years after ACA
rejected such payment of rent is somehow “relevant” to “affirmative defenses”
asserted by Defendants “including, without limitation, statute of limitations,
laches, and failure to mitigate damages.”  However, the precise claim for breach of
contract alleged in the SAC was the failure by Defendants to pay higher rents
than the amounts stated in the tenant estoppels, which higher amounts Plaintiff
claimed were required to be paid by Defendants pursuant to alleged “written
AAGLA leases” purportedly executed by them.
The California Supreme Court identified “seven
factors that should be considered by a trial court in considering whether good
cause has been shown to enforce a subpoena that has been challenged by a motion
to quash.”  (Facebook, Inc. v.
Superior Court of San Diego County (2020) 10 Cal.5th 329, 345, citing City of Alhambra v.
Superior Court (1988)
205 Cal.App.3d 1118, 1134.)  The Facebook Court referred to these seven factors as the Alhambra factors: (1) showing a “plausible justification”
for acquiring these documents from a third party; (2) the material sought is
adequately described and not overly broad; (3) the material sought is “reasonably
available to the . . . entity from which it is sought (and not readily
available to the defendant from other sources)”; (4) the production of the
requested materials would not violate a third party’s “confidentiality or
privacy rights” or intrude upon “any protected governmental interest”; (5) the
defendant’s request is timely; (6) the time required to produce the requested
information would not necessitate an unreasonable delay of defendant’s trial;
and (7) production of the records containing the requested information would not
place an unreasonable burden on the third party.  (Id. at pgs. 345-347.)
Here, ACA cannot meet most of the Alhambra factors. 
First, as stated above, ACA cannot state a plausible justification for
acquiring these documents from a third party. 
Second, the documents sought in the subpoenas are not identified
exactly.  Third, ACA conceded it learned
about the documents through Plaintiff’s own bank and could therefore have
obtained this information through less intrusive means.  (Decl. of Riley ¶9.)  Fourth, it is well-settled law that the right
to privacy protects a third party’s financial information from disclosure. (Hecht,
Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley v. Superior Court (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 579, 593.)  Where a serious
invasion of the right to privacy is shown, the proponent of the discovery must demonstrate
that the information sought is directly relevant to an issue in the litigation.
 (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal. 3d 844, 850.)  “Directly
relevant” to a claim or defense means it is “essential to the fair resolution
of the lawsuit.”  (Id.)  Even after “direct relevance” is shown, the
proponent of discovery must demonstrate that the information sought is not
available through less intrusive means.  (Hernandez v. Hillsides, Inc. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 272, 288; Allen v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 447,
449.)  As stated with regard to the
fourth factor, ACA appears to have access to this information via its own
bank.  Finally, as stated above, ACA’s
request is not timely based on the discovery cut-off on May 2, 2022, and
appears to be an improper attempt to conduct discovery.  (See McConnell v. Advantest America, Inc. (2023)
92 Cal.App.5th 596, 611.)
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to quash ACA’s October
3, 2023, trial subpoenas is granted. 
 
Conclusion

Defendants’
motion to quash ACA’s October 3, 2023, trial subpoenas is granted.

3) Hearing on A.C.A.’s motion to
quash trial subpoenas 
On October 5, 2023, counsel for Defendants served notices
to consumer upon Cross-Defendants, as well as a non-party corporation, Westwood
Management Group regarding the soon to be served Civil Subpoenas for Personal
Appearance and Production of Documents and Things upon First Foundation Bank,
Bank of America, and JP Morgan Chase (“Subpoenas”).[1]
Cross-Defendants argue Defendants’ subpoenas seek the
following:
1.      All correspondence and emails between the borrower
A.C.A. LLC or anyone acting on its behalf and First Foundation Bank or anyone
acting on its behalf concerning Loan Number 10125200 involving a Deed of Trust
recorded February 16, 2017 attached hereto as Exhibit 1 against the properties
located at 540 Glenrock Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024 (APN #4363-009-005) and
543 Landfair Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024 (APN #4363-009-013) (hereinafter
referenced as “the LOAN”). (Document Req. No. 1.) 
 
2.      All
loan applications submitted by the borrower A.C.A. LLC or anyone acting on its
behalf to First Foundation Bank or anyone acting on its behalf in connection
with the LOAN. (Document Req. No. 2.)
 
3.      All schedules of real estate owned submitted by the
borrower A.C.A. LLC or anyone acting on its behalf to First Foundation Bank or
anyone acting on its behalf in connection with the LOAN. (Document Req. No. 3.)

 
4.      All financial documents provided by the borrower
A.C.A. LLC or anyone acting on its behalf to First Foundation Bank or anyone
acting on its behalf in connection with the LOAN. (Document Req. No. 4.) 
 
5.      All underwriting documents concerning the LOAN.
(Document Req. No. 5.) 
 
6.      All closing statements concerning the LOAN.
(Document Req. No. 6.) 
 
7.      All appraisals obtained in connection with the
LOAN. (Document Req. No. 7.) 
 
8.      All bank statements for the past 24 months for any
savings accounts, trust accounts, money market accounts, certificates of
deposit, investment accounts, 401K and/or pension accounts, credit card
accounts, loan accounts, and lines of credit in which A.C.A. LLC has any legal
interest. (Document Req. No. 8.) 
 
9.      All bank statements for the past 24 months for any
savings accounts, trust accounts, money market accounts, certificates of
deposit, investment accounts, 401K and/or pension accounts, credit card
accounts, loan accounts, and lines of credit in which Damian Akhavi has any
legal interest. (Document Req. No. 9.) 
 
10.  All bank statements for the past 24 months for any
savings accounts, trust accounts, money market accounts, certificates of
deposit, investment accounts, 401K and/or pension accounts, credit card
accounts, loan accounts, and lines of credit in which Westwood Management Group
has any legal interest. (Document Req. No. 10.) 
 
(Motion Cross-Defendants, pgs. 4-6.)
The California Supreme Court established a
framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.  “The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  The court must then balance the competing
interests.  (Id.)  There is a recognized right of privacy
to a party’s confidential financial affairs, even when the information sought
is relevant to the litigation.  (Cobb
v. Superior Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 543, 550 [stating privacy as limit
on discovery of defendant’s net worth where punitive damages sought].) 
Here,
the financial records sought are overbroad. The various categories of documents
are far beyond simply financial records and include requests for communications
regarding financial records. Such documents are not necessary in order to
obtain the overall financial status of Cross-Defendants for purposes of
determining punitive damage value.  The
issue of punitive damages “usually does not require much more than an
ascertainment of the net worth of a defendant, and that the type of specific
questions posed…dealing with assets, liabilities, property ownership and cash
on hand constitute unnecessary harassment.”  (Cobb, 99 Cal.App.3d 543, 550.)  A more limited inquiry “might reveal that the
defendant may be in a position to satisfy the claim if established without the
necessity of a full and complete disclosure of all of his financial affairs.”  (Id. at 567.)  Such an inquiry can be accomplished through
“the furnishing of an already prepared financial statement, particularly where
the defendant is a . . . business entity.” (Id.)
Cross-Complainants do not require the information
sought in the Subpoenas; all that is needed to ascertain Cross-Defendants’
financial status for a punitive damages computation is a simple financial
statement.
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ motion to quash Defendants’
subpoena is granted. 
 
Conclusion

Cross-Defendants’
unopposed motion to quash is granted. 

 

 

4) Requests for Remote
Appearances 
            On October 12,
2023, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Yunying Li, Mian Guo, and Yavuz Ertas (hereinafter
referred to as the “Defendants”) filed Notices of Remote Appearance, seeking to
appear remotely for their testimony at the November 6, 2023, jury trial in this
matter. Defendants’ request to appear remotely are denied.    
Code of Civil
Procedure § 367.75(b) provides: 
“Except as otherwise
provided by law, the court may require a party or witness to appear in person
at a conference, hearing, or proceeding . . . if any of the following
conditions are present: 
(1) The court with
jurisdiction over the case does not have the technology necessary to conduct
the conference, hearing, or proceeding remotely. 
(2) Although the court
has the requisite technology, the quality of the technology or audibility at a
conference, hearing, or proceeding prevents the effective management or
resolution of the conference, hearing, or proceeding. 
(3) The court
determines on a hearing-by-hearing basis that an in-person appearance would
materially assist in the determination of the conference, hearing, or
proceeding or in the effective management or resolution of the particular case.

(4) The quality of the
technology or audibility at a conference, hearing, or proceeding inhibits the
court reporter's ability to accurately prepare a transcript of the conference,
hearing, or proceeding. 
(5) The quality of the
technology or audibility at a conference, hearing, or proceeding prevents an
attorney from being able to provide effective representation to the attorney's
client. 
(6) The quality of the
technology or audibility at a conference, hearing, or proceeding inhibits a
court interpreter's ability to provide language access to a court user or
authorized individual.” 
California Rule of
Court 3.672(d) provides: 
“Notwithstanding the
other provisions of this rule and except as otherwise required by law, the
court may require a party to appear in person at a proceeding subject to this
rule in any of the following circumstances: 
(1) If the court
determines on a hearing-by-hearing basis that an in-person appearance would
materially assist in the determination of the proceeding or in the effective
management or resolution of the case. 
(2) If the court does
not have the technology to conduct the proceeding remotely, or if the quality
of the technology prevents the effective management or resolution of the
proceeding.
(3) If, at any time
during a remote proceeding, the court determines that an in-person appearance
is necessary, the court may continue the matter and require such an appearance.
Such determination may be based on the factors listed in Code of Civil Procedure
section 367.75(b).” 
Defendant Min Zhou
appeared remotely for her testimony at the August 7, 2023, bench trial in this
matter. The process went less than smoothly. 
The Court, counsel, the interpreter, and the court reporter struggled to
hear and understand Ms. Zhou due to the terrible audio and video quality. The
Chinese-to-English translation of Ms. Zhou’s testimony suffered as a result.  The Court understands Defendants Yunying Li
and Mian Guo will require interpreters at trial.  Having Ms. Zhou access, review, and testify about
exhibits was tedious.  Her testimony took
two to three times longer than it would have had she appeared in person. 
The Court finds that
the problems that plagued Ms. Zhou’s testimony will likely also plague
Defendants’ testimony in the jury trial. 
The Court therefore denies Yunying Li, Mian Guo, and Yavuz Ertas’
request to appear remotely at the trial of this matter.
 

 
5)
Hearing on Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
The
Court continues the hearing on Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
to December 1, 2023, at 9:30 a.m. in Department 71.  

 

 

6) Statement of
Decision
The Court has reviewed
Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s Requests for Statement of Decision and will
incorporate the parties’ submissions as the Court deem appropriate.  The Court will provide a final Statement by
December 1, 2023.
 

 
7)
Final Status Conference and Trial
The
Court continues the Final Status Conference in this matter to December 1, 2023,
at 9:30 a.m. in Department 71.  Trial
will commence December 11, 2023, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 71.  
 


