 Case Number:  23STCV13776    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  71  
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LACHELLE
  HARRIS,  
  
         vs.
 
AMAZON.COM,
  INC., et al. 


 Case No.:  23STCV13776
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023 



 
Plaintiff
Lachelle Harris’s Motion for Monetary, Terminating, Evidentiary and/or Issues
Sanctions is DENIED.  
 
          Plaintiff Harris
moves for monetary, terminating, evidentiary and/or issue sanctions against
Defendants Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services LLC, Inc.  Plaintiff Harris argues these sanctions are
justified based on (1) Defendants’ refusal to timely and properly respond to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories-Employment Law and Requests for Production of
Defendants, (2) Defendants’ assertion of invalid objections and conditions to
production and (3) Defendants’ refusal to properly meet and confer on those responses
that were given.  Plaintiff argues that,
to date, Defendants still have not produced unredacted documents, nor have they
provided a privilege log identifying those documents withheld and the basis for
withholding them.  
 
Procedural Defects
 
          Plaintiff’s
request for evidentiary and issue sanctions is procedurally defective.
Plaintiff’s notice of motion does not identify the evidence or issues that
would be the subject of the sanction.  Plaintiff
also fails to submit a separate statement in conformity with CRC 3.1345(a)(7).  
 
Applicable Law 
 
          A
party may bring a request for sanctions by bringing a noticed motion with a
supporting declaration setting forth facts supporting the sanctions requested.
(CCP § 2023.040.) A party seeking sanctions is not required to meet and confer
before bringing a motion under § 2023.040. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 141 Cal. App. 4th 390, 311.)
The Court has the authority to, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing,
impose sanctions on anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process. (CCP
§ 2023.030.) Misuse of the discovery process includes, but is not limited to,
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an
evasive discovery response, and disobeying a court order to provide discovery.
(CCP § 2023.010(d), (f), (g).) The sanctions the Court can impose for misuse of
the discovery process include terminating sanctions, by issuing an order
dismissing the action against that party. (CCP § 2023.030(d), (e).) 
 
          Terminating
sanctions should be used sparingly and the trial court should attempt less
severe alternatives unless the record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be
ineffective to induce the offending party’s compliance. (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (decision to impose
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly but such sanctions are
justified in cases of repeated discovery abuse and evidence that lesser sanctions
will be ineffectual); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd.
(1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th 486, 496 (finding terminating sanctions proper where
plaintiffs violated two discovery orders); Thomas v. Luong (1986) 187
Cal.App.3d 76, 81–82; Morgan v. Ransom (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 664, 669
(incarcerated, indigent, pro per plaintiff's
delay in serving responses insufficient
to justify imposition of terminating sanctions where no prejudice
demonstrated)). Moreover, discovery sanctions are not intended to punish but to
accomplish discovery. (Newland v. Supr. Ct. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608,
613.)
 
          “The
discovery statutes…evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination.  Although in extreme cases a
court has the authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure, a
terminating sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has
attempted less severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the
record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.”  (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  
 
          Where
a party repeatedly violates discovery orders, including the parties’ discovery stipulations,
a court is “not required to allow this pattern of abuse to continue ad
infinitum.”  (Mileikowsky, supra,
128 Cal.App.4th at 280.)  Thus, a court
does not abuse its discretion in ordering terminating sanctions  against a party who has repeatedly refused to
answer discovery requests despite numerous extensions, court orders requiring
discovery responses, including stipulations, and imposition of monetary
sanctions.  (Id.)  Terminating sanctions under these
circumstances are proper even if the responding party responded “only” because
of “the threat of terminating sanctions.” 
(Id.)         
 
No basis for imposition of monetary,
terminating, evidentiary or issue sanctions
 
          Plaintiff
seeks to impose sanctions on Defendants for failure to produce satisfactory
responses to form interrogatories and RFPs) served on July 14, 2023 and for failure
to meet and confer in good faith, including raising objections based on HIPAA
and privacy, refusing to produce without a protective order and failing to
provide a privilege log.  Plaintiff
argues Defendants’ conduct was intended to obstruct Plaintiff’s ability to
oppose Defendants’ motion to change venue and is indicative of Defendants’ unwillingness
to comply with discovery obligations.  (Motion,
S. Rand-Lewis Dec., ¶¶5-47.)  
 
          Such
conduct is not grounds to impose monetary, terminating, evidentiary or issue
sanctions.  Discovery sanctions are not
intended to punish but to accomplish discovery. (Newland, supra,
40 Cal.App.4th at 613.)  Plaintiff’s
remedy for Defendants’ allegedly unsatisfactory responses is a motion to compel
further responses, not a motion for monetary, terminating, evidentiary and/or
issue sanctions.  
           
          Moreover,
Defendants have not been unresponsive during this process. Defendants have
engaged in the meet and confer process and provided responses.  (Motion, S. Rand-Lewis Dec., ¶7 (initial
responses served on 8/15/23), ¶¶10-20, 36-43 (meet and confer attempts);
Tripodi Dec. ISO of Opposition to Motion, ¶¶4-31.)  Defendants served initial responses on August
15, served responsive documents on August 25 and agreed to serve further
responses during a September 26, 2023 meet and confer call.  (Tripodi Dec. ISO of Opposition to Motion, ¶¶5,
19, 26, 28.)  Defendants have agreed to
provide a privilege log.  (Matayoshi Dec.
ISO of Opposition, ¶1).)  Defendants have
even offered to extend the time to move to compel furthers to November 14, 2023.  (Tripodi Dec. ISO of Opposition to Motion, ¶21;
Matayoshi Dec. ISO of Opposition, ¶11.)
 
          Plaintiff
fails to cite any failure to comply with a court order or a repeated pattern of
egregious discovery abuse, nor are the facts so extreme and egregious to
justify imposition of terminating sanctions as a first measure (Lopez, supra,
246 Cal.App.4th at 604).  The alleged
conduct does not merit imposition of monetary, evidentiary or issue sanctions
given the availability of a less extreme remedy for Defendants’ allegedly
unsatisfactory discovery responses, i.e. a motion to compel further
responses.  If Plaintiff moves to compel
further responses, she is also entitled to seek monetary sanctions if she
prevails.  
 
          For
these reasons, Plaintiff’s request for monetary, terminating, evidentiary and
issue sanctions is DENIED.    
 
 
Dated:  October 27, 2023 
                                                                                                                   
Hon. Daniel Crowley
Judge of the Superior Court