  Case Number:  21STCV07414    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  73 09/10/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
TAHMAZIAN v. COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
et al. (21STCV07414)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Irving Meyer
(Law Offices of Irving Meyer)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Michele Goldsmith
(BDG Law Group, APLC)
 
(1)   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed on 12/21/2023)
(2)   MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES TO PRODUCE WITNESSES TO SIT FOR DEPOSITION AND SANCTIONS (filed on 7/29/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the first,
second, third and sixth causes of action. 
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the fourth
and fifth causes of action. 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant County of Los Angeles to Produce
Witnesses to Sit for Deposition and Sanctions is GRANTED. 
The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. Defendant is ordered
to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $5,100, within thirty (30) days. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
February 24, 2021, Plaintiff Eileen Tahmazian brought this is FEHA
discrimination and harassment action against Defendants County of Los Angeles
SCMS Administrative Services, Inc. and Hamlet Panosian. 
 
On
May 24, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting the
following causes of action:
1.     
Discrimination
(Age, Race, Disability, Origin, Ancestry) in violation of the FEHA
2.     
Hostile
Work Environment Harassment (Age, Race, Disability, Gender, Origin, Ancestry)
in violation of the FEHA
3.     
Retaliation
in violation of the FEHA
4.     
Failure
to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in violation of the FEHA
5.     
Failure
to Engage in the Interactive Process in violation of the FEHA
6.     
Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation in violation of the FEHA
 
Plaintiff
alleges she was employed with Defendants for approximately 10 years and was
wrongfully terminated on October 7, 2019 because of Defendants’ alleged
discrimination; harassment; failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s disabilities;
failure to enter into a reasonable interactive process with Plaintiff based on
her disabilities; and retaliation because Plaintiff had complained about prior
FEHA violations by Defendants.
 

On April 24, 2024, Defendants filed a motion
for summary judgment or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Defendant moves for summary judgment or
adjudication of the following issues
·      
ISSUE ONE: Defendant’s Third Affirmative
Defense of Failure to Exhaust Administrative Remedies applies to bar each
allegation by Plaintiff of any alleged adverse employment action, other than
the decision to terminate the Plaintiff in October 2019.
·      
ISSUE TWO: Plaintiff’s First Cause of
Action for FEHA discrimination must fail because the County has legitimate,
non-discriminatory business reasons for the termination of Plaintiff.
·      
ISSUE THREE: Defendants’ County and
Panosian’s Third Affirmative Defense of Failure to Exhaust Administrative
Remedies applies to bar Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for Harassment
·      
ISSUE FOUR: Defendant’s Third Affirmative
Defense of Failure to Exhaust Administrative Remedies applies to bar
Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Retaliation.
·      
ISSUE FIVE: Plaintiff’s Third Cause of
Action for FEHA retaliation must fail because the County has legitimate,
non-discriminatory business reasons for the termination of Plaintiff.
·      
ISSUE SIX: Defendant’s Third Affirmative
Defense of Failure to Exhaust Administrative Remedies applies to bar
Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action for FEHA failure to accommodate
·      
ISSUE SEVEN: Defendant’s Third Affirmative
Defense of Failure to Exhaust Administrative Remedies applies to bar
Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action for FEHA failure to engage in the interactive
process.
·      
ISSUE EIGHT: Plaintiff’s Fourth and Fifth
Causes of Action for FEHA failure to accommodate and FEHA failure to engage in
the interactive process must fail because the County accommodated Plaintiff and
fulfilled its obligation to engage in an interactive process.
·      
ISSUE NINE: Plaintiff cannot succeed on
her Sixth Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent, as Plaintiff cannot succeed
on her other FEHA Causes of Action.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that there are genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s causes
of action. 
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining there
is no triable issue as to any
material fact and Defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law
against Plaintiff’s causes of action.
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion
to Compel Defendant County of Los Angeles to Produce Witnesses to Sit for
Deposition and Sanctions in the amount of $5,100. Defendant filed an opposition.
Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
 
B.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s evidence in
support of her opposition as follows:
 
Tahmazian Declaration (Nos. 1-60)
·      
Nos. 1-13: Overruled.
·      
No. 14: Sustained (Hearsay).
·      
Nos. 15-18: Overruled.
·      
No. 19: Sustained (Hearsay).
·      
Nos. 20: Overruled.
·      
No. 21: Sustained (Hearsay).
·      
Nos. 22-28: Overruled.
·      
No. 29: Sustained (Improper legal conclusion.)
·      
Nos. 30-60: Overruled.
 
Herman Salazar Declaration (Nos. 1-9)
·       Nos. 1-9:
Overruled.
Martin Kirch Declaration (Nos. 1-17)
·      
Nos. 1-17: Overruled.
 
C.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request that the Court take
judicial notice of the following: The First Amended Complaint filed in this
Court on May 24, 2021 in the instant case. 
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) The Court may take judicial notice of
its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
The Court grants Defendants’ request
for judicial notice.
 
D.     Allegations
in in the FAC
 
The FAC
alleges the following:
 
Plaintiff
Eileen Tahmazian, a 57-year-old Armenian woman, was employed for more than ten years as a delinquent account investigator
for Los Angeles County Tax Collectors Department, starting on or around
September 22, 2009. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff worked diligently in her position
until her unlawful termination on October 7, 2019. (Ibid.)
 
In or around 2013, Plaintiff requested
a bilingual bonus because she sometimes spoke in Armenian to assist customers. (FAC,
¶ 13.) Instead of exploring the issue with Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s manager,
Roselyn, condescendingly responded, “You are not qualified, and your language
is not an official language to request a bonus.” Plaintiff was forced to file a
complaint and go to mediation to resolve the dispute. After substantiating her
claim, Plaintiff was able to receive a bilingual bonus.
 
In or around 2013, Plaintiff asked her
manager, Defendant Hamlet Panosian, for a higher footrest due to swelling in
her feet. Plaintiff has polio and a noticeable limp. Defendant Panosian
instructed Plaintiff to provide a doctor’s note reflecting her condition and
need for a higher footrest. Plaintiff promptly submitted a doctor’s note to
human resources; however, Plaintiff did not receive her requested footrest
until 2019.
 
A few months after this incident,
Defendant Panosian told Plaintiff to contact him directly whenever she was out
sick. Plaintiff informed Defendant Panosian that doing so would violate company
policy. Per the employee handbook, employees were instructed to report directly
to their supervisors and only report to a manger if no supervisor could be
reached. When Plaintiff showed Defendant Panosian the correct policy in the
employee handbook, Defendant Panosian became visibly angry, banged his fists on
his desk, and shouted aggressively at Plaintiff, “I say you do what I say! You
need to call me!” The following week, Plaintiff reported the incident in
writing to Defendant’s boss, Kathey Gloster, and requested overtime pay. While
Plaintiff was paid her overtime, nothing was done to address Defendant
Panosian’s angry outburst.
 
In or around mid-2015, Supervisor
Andre informed Plaintiff of a meeting with Defendant Panosian. Per Andre,
Defendant Panosian told him and his subordinates, “don’t talk to Eileen and
everyone hates [her].” After that meeting, Plaintiff noticed that her co-workers
stopped talking to her. Plaintiff also noticed that whenever she used the
restroom, two female co-workers would follow her. Co-workers also began to
mimic Plaintiff’s accent when she was within earshot and call Plaintiff a
“cripple.”
 
Around this time, at a weekly meeting,
Defendant Panosian instructed collectors to remove debtors from the Federal and
State Tax Offset Program. Plaintiff believed this to be illegal and questioned
Defendant Panosian regarding its legality. Defendant Panosian refused to give
Plaintiff any explanation and simply told Plaintiff, “Don’t question me, just
do what I say.” Plaintiff told Defendant Panosian, “No I am not going to be the
subject of any federal investigation or lawsuit in the future … The law says we
need to report the debt. Show me your justification and I will do it.”
Defendant Panosian responded to Plaintiff, “Do say I say, or you are going to
get fired.” Plaintiff then spoke to Kathey Gloster about the issue; shockingly,
Gloster told Plaintiff to remove the debtors and withhold information regarding
any refunds. Plaintiff refused to follow these instruction as she knew the law
required her to inform debtors of any refunds. From then on, during every
weekly meeting, Defendant Panosian instructed Plaintiff to remove debtors from
the tax offset program and withhold information regarding refunds.
 
In late 2015, according to two of
Plaintiff’s supervisors, Chief Fernando Rubio announced, “I am going to get rid
of the older collectors. I am going to clean house and hire Mexicans.” These
supervisors warned Plaintiff that Rubio wanted to get rid of her. Shortly
after, Plaintiff noticed that four young, Hispanic women were hired. At this
point, Plaintiff feared that her job may be in jeopardy due to her age.
 
In or around early 2016, Plaintiff
filed a worker’s compensation case after suffering severe headaches and nausea
due to the cold temperature at her work desk. Plaintiff received a doctor’s
note requiring her to be relocated to a different area. Initially, Defendant
Panosian refused to accommodate Plaintiff. After a couple of days, human
resources relocated Plaintiff’s work desk. Months later, due to road closures
near the building, Plaintiff was forced to walk 30 minutes across a bridge make
it to work. Plaintiff requested that she and other employees be notified of
road closures. Instead of accommodating the simple request to notify employees
of future road closures, human resources told Plaintiff that they were not
required to notify her. Plaintiff explained to human resources that due to her
disability, she experienced pain from having to walk so far to reach work.
Human resources stated that it was unaware of her disability. Plaintiff has
polio and a noticeable limp. Plaintiff took this interaction with human resources
as an act of retaliation against her for filing a worker’s compensation claim
months before.
 
In or around 2016, Plaintiff reported
to Fernando Rubio about ongoing harassment from Defendant Panosian. During this
conversation, Plaintiff suddenly suffered a panic attack. Plaintiff went
outside to calm herself down. Shortly after, a supervisor came outside and told
Plaintiff, “[Panosian] says you need to come in or he is going to fire you.” To
Plaintiff’s knowledge, nothing was done to address her complaint about
Panosian’s harassment. After the reporting, Plaintiff began receiving anonymous
written and verbal threats. Plaintiff found notes on her desk which read, “You
have to be careful when there is a fire, someone is going to burn and get
hurt.” Plaintiff received phone calls in which the caller stated, “You are
going to get killed” or “You fucking bitch, go back to where you came from!”
 
In or around April 2016, Defendant
Panosian suspended Plaintiff for five days without pay after Plaintiff emailed
another manager about Panosian’s harassment. Plaintiff was charged with
“gossiping over email.” To Plaintiff’s knowledge, nothing was done to address
her complaint about Panosian’s harassment.
 
In or around mid-2016, Defendant
Panosian instructed all employees to only use the restrooms on their floor.
Plaintiff asked Panosian what employees should do when restrooms on their floor
were closed for maintenance or when employees experienced an incident and
needed immediate access to restrooms. Defendant Panosian did not offer and
solutions for Plaintiff. Plaintiff was forced to file a complaint with human
resources. To Plaintiff’s knowledge, nothing was done to address her complaint
about Panosian’s refusal to accommodate her bathroom request.
 
In or around August 2016, Plaintiff’s
co-worker warned Plaintiff about Defendant Panosian’s short temper and stated
that Panosian would likely shoot her. Plaintiff said
that she would continue to question Panosian’s practices when necessary and if
her co-worker was legitimately scared, then the co-worker should bring a phone
book to protect herself during meetings. Another co-worker overheard the
conversation and falsely reported to Defendant Panosian that Plaintiff made
threats against Panosian’s safety. An investigation ensued. When questioned by
human resources manager Helen, Plaintiff explained the entirety of her
conversation with her co-worker. However, Helen told Plaintiff that she did not
believe Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s Union and the Sheriff’s department also
investigated the incident and correctly concluded that Plaintiff did not make
threats against Defendant Panosian and that Plaintiff was only being advised of
Panosian’s terrible temper.
 
In or around 2017, Plaintiff testified
against Defendant Panosian after he was discovered having sexual intercourse
with a supervisor in his office. Plaintiff told investigators that she had
witnessed the subordinate go into Panosian’s office, the blinds would be closed
and doors locked, and the subordinate would be in his office for an hour.
Sometime after this, Defendant Panosian dumped Plaintiff’s sanitary pads all
over her desk.
 
Later in 2018, Plaintiff noticed that
her cases were not being approved. After asking her supervisor about her cases,
her supervisor explained that Defendant Panosian was not processing them.
Plaintiff discovered that Panosian was waiting two-to-three months before
processing her cases, and when asked about the delay, Panosian claimed that he
did not have Plaintiff’s cases.
 
In or around 2018, Investigator
William Gomez interviewed Plaintiff about her complaints of harassment, some of
which were filed as early as 2015. Plaintiff confirmed that she was being
harassed and received death threats. Investigator Gomez spoke to Plaintiff’s
worker compensation attorney who confirmed that Plaintiff was experiencing
severe ongoing retaliation. To Plaintiff’s knowledge, no other actions were
taken in the investigation and no remedy was provided.
 
In or around March 2019, Plaintiff’s
work desk violently collapsed. Plaintiff began experiencing severe anxiety and
stress and eventually went to urgent care. Plaintiff’s blood pressure was
dangerously high, and her doctor took her out of work for three days. Plaintiff
subsequently sought treatment from a psychiatrist and was taken out of work for
an additional three months (from March 2019 – June 2019). Plaintiff’s medical
leave was extended another three months to September 2019, and then again
extended to December 2019. (Ibid.)
 
While on
medical leave, in or around July 2019, Plaintiff received a termination notice,
effective October 7, 2019. (FAC, ¶ 14.) The reason provided to Plaintiff was that she has used foul
language in the workplace. (Ibid.)
 
E.      Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or evidence
that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c,
subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
F.       Statute of
Limitations
 
Defendants first
argue that since Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies, the
majority of her claims are time-barred.
 
Before filing
an employment discrimination lawsuit under the Fair Employment and Housing Act,
a plaintiff must exhaust their administrative remedies before the Department of
Fair Employment and Housing (now known as the Civil Rights Department). (Gov.
Code §§ 12960(b), (d); 12965(b); see Rojo v. Kliger (1990) 52 Cal.3d 65,
88.) This requirement is jurisdictional. (Miller v. United Airlines, Inc.
(1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 878, 889-90.) To bring a lawsuit against a party under
FEHA, the defendants must have been named in the caption or body of the charge
filed before CRD. (See, e.g., Medix Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 109 116-18.)¿¿At the conclusion of the
administrative process, which may or may not include an investigation or
administrative remedies, CRD generally issues the employee a right-to-sue
notice. (Id.) 
 
“To exhaust
his or her administrative remedies as to a particular act made unlawful by the
Fair Employment and Housing Act, the claimant must specify that act in the
administrative complaint, even if the complaint does specify other cognizable
wrongful acts.” (Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1718, 1724.) The administrative exhaustion requirement is satisfied
if FEHA claims in a judicial complaint are “like and reasonably related to”
those in the DFEH complaint or “likely to be uncovered in the course of a DFEH
investigation.” (Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 143,
154; Okoli v. Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th
1607, 1617.) A plaintiff exhausts his administrative remedies by identifying a
defendant, even if not by name, as the alleged perpetrator of discrimination in
a DFEH complaint. (Clark v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 289,
304.) It is sufficient that the complaint contain general terms describing the
alleged discriminatory parties and the alleged discriminatory acts. (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 267.) Administrative
charges are to be construed liberally. (Id.) 
 
“While
resolution of the statute of limitations issue is normally a question of fact,
where the uncontradicted facts established through discovery are susceptible of
only one legitimate inference, summary judgment is proper.”¿(Jolly v. Eli
Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1112.)¿ 
 
The current
Government Code §12960 provides that a DFEH complaint alleging FEHA violations
“shall not be filed after the expiration of three years from the date upon
which the unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred.” (Gov. Code, §
12960(e).) In 2019, the Legislature amended Government Code §12960 with
Assembly Bill No. 9, and the amended statute came into effect on January 1,
2020. Under the former Government Code section 12960 (in effect from January 1,
2018 to December 31, 2019), a DFEH complaint alleging FEHA violations had to be
filed “one year from the date upon which the alleged unlawful practice or
refusal to cooperate occurred,” subject to a certain exceptions. The
legislative digest and section 3 of the bill indicate the “act shall not be
interpreted to revive lapsed claims.” (2019 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 709 (A.B.
9).)¿
 
Here,
Plaintiff was terminated in October 2019. Thus, under the former Government
Code section 12960, Plaintiff had until October 2020 to file her right to sue. Plaintiff
filed her FEHA complaint with the DFEH on December 21, 2020. 
 
However, when
AB 9 was enacted in January of 2020, Plaintiff’s one-year limitations period
had not lapsed. “As long as the former limitations period has not expired, an
enlarged limitations period ordinarily applies and is said to apply
prospectively to govern cases that are pending when, or instituted after, the
enactment took effect. This is true even though the underlying conduct that is
the subject of the litigation occurred prior to the new enactment.” (Quarry
v. Doe I (2012) 53 Cal. 4th 945, 956.) Therefore, Defendants do not dispute
that Plaintiff’s claims regarding her termination in October 2019 had not
lapsed. 
 
However,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claims (aside from her termination in October
2019) are not revived because they already expired even before the three-year
limitations period took effect on January 1, 2020.
 
Regarding
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for discrimination, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
alleged adverse employment actions of (1) denial of bilingual pay in 2013, (2)
the April 29, 2016, suspension for 5 days for violating the County’s IT policy
and the Departmental Code of Conduct, and (3) in 2018 her cases not being
processed, are barred. Defendants assert these claims are barred because: (1)
these claims are outside of the one-year statute of limitation, and (2)
Plaintiff’s DFEH Charge does not exhaust Plaintiff’s administrative remedies
because the DFEH Charge only alleges facts that occurred on or about October 7,
2019. (Goldsmith Decl., Ex. B.) Plaintiff does not allege in her DFEH charge
that she is alleging facts that go back to 2013, 2016 and 2018. (Ibid.)
 
Regarding
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for harassment, Defendants argue this cause
of action is barred because: (1) all allegations of harassment predate 2018 and
earlier, thus, Plaintiff’s cause of action is time barred for Plaintiff’s
failure to exhaust her administrative remedies and (2) Plaintiff’s DFEH Charge
only alleges facts on or about October 7, 2019, and does not allege harassment
from 2013 through 2018.
 
a.       DFEH Charge/Failure
to Exhaust Administrative Remedies
 
“It is
sufficient that the [DFEH] be apprised, in general terms, of the alleged
discrimination parties and the alleged discriminatory acts.” (Nazir v.
United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 267.) “[W]hat is
submitted to the DFEH must not only be construed liberally in favor of
plaintiff, it must be construed in light of what might be uncovered by a
reasonable investigation.” (Ibid.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s DFEH Charge filed on December 21, 2020 states, in relevant part: “Complainant
alleges that on or about October 7, 2019, respondent took the following adverse
actions…” (Goldsmith Decl., Ex. B, p. 3.) Plaintiff goes on to allege that she
was harassed and experienced discrimination and retaliation. Plaintiff also
states in her DFEH Charge that these allegations of FEHA violations “formed the
underlying basis for complainant’s termination and/or subjected complainant to
additional adverse employment action.” (Goldsmith Decl., Ex. B, p. 4.)
 
The Court
finds the DFEH complaint sufficiently alleges harassment, discrimination, and retaliation
because of Plaintiff’s race, ancestry, national origin, FMLA and CFRA leave,
disability, medical condition, and age. Further, the complaint names Defendants.
Defendants do not cite any published authority that specifically mandates that
facts supporting the charges of harassment, discrimination, or retaliation be
provided in the DFEH complaint with detail. The Court finds that Plaintiff has
pled sufficient facts in her DFEH Charge to put Defendants on notice and
exhaust her administrative remedies.
 
b.      Continuing
Violations Doctrine
 
Defendants argue
that the continuing violations doctrine does not toll Plaintiff’s claims that
fall outside the limitations period. 
 
The
continuing violations doctrine is a tolling exception to the one-year statute
of limitations for filing a complaint with the DFEH.¿(Dominguez v.
Washington Mutual Bank (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th at 720-721 [“Dominguez”].)¿Under
the continuing violations doctrine, “a FEHA complaint is timely if
discriminatory practices occurring outside the limitations period continued
into that period.” (Id. at p.721.)¿“A continuing violation exists
if:¿(1) the conduct occurring within the limitations period is similar in
kind to the conduct that falls outside the period; (2) the conduct was reasonably
frequent; and (3) it had not yet acquired a degree of permanence.”¿
(Ibid. [emphasis added].) A continuing violation may be established by
demonstrating a company-wide policy or practice or a series of related acts
against a single individual. (Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000)
88 Cal.App.4th 52, 64.)  
 
“Similar in
kind” under the continuing violations doctrine does not mean that the “same”
conduct that occurred outside the limitations period must have also occurred
within the limitations period.¿ (Dominguez at p. at 724.)¿ Instead, the
question is whether the “conduct within the limitations period may be viewed as
part of a continuing violation because there is evidence that the former
was related to the latter.”¿ (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
“Permanent”
in this context means that the conduct has stopped, the plaintiff has resigned,
or the defendant’s statements and actions would make it clear to a reasonable
employee that any further efforts to resolve the issue internally would be
futile. (CACI 2508) 
 
“[W]hen
defendant has asserted the statute of limitation defense, the plaintiff has the
burden of proof to show his or her claims are timely under the continuing
violation doctrine.” (Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 1390, 1402.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that throughout her employment, including until her termination in 2019,
she consistently found herself being treated differently because of her age,
race, and in retaliation for making complaints. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 43.) Plaintiff
also cites to testimony from her coworker who perceived Panosian’s treatment of
Plaintiff in 2017, 2018, and 2019 to be harassing in nature, believing the way
he treated her to have never changed. (Wilbur Depo., at 100:6-103:17; Wilbur
Depo., 197:22-198:15.) Additionally, Chavez and Miranda continued calling Plaintiff
names such as “cripple” because of her disability, mimicking her accent,
mimicking her walk, and making condescending comments about her needing
accommodations. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 46.) Plaintiff argues that although the
harassment, disparate treatment, and retaliation took different forms, the
goals were the same: to remove Plaintiff from the workplace.
 
In reply, Defendants
argue that the continuing violations doctrine does not apply here because as of
January 2017, the situation at
Plaintiff’s work had achieved permanence, and the statute of limitations began
to run. Defendants cite to Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles, (2015) 241
Cal. App. 4th 1390, 1404 which held that “[b]ecause the harassment and
retaliation culminated in the 1999 suspension, and plaintiff knew future
efforts to make changes would be futile, all of plaintiff's claims related to
conduct that occurred before June 1999 are barred by the statute of
limitations.” In support, Defendants rely on Plaintiff’s declaration in which
she states “In January 2017, I was notified that a determination was made
regarding my complaints, that the department completed its review of my
complaints, and that the matter is closed. I was not provided with any further
updates or actions that would be taken to protect me or otherwise prevent the
conduct from continuing to happen.” (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 44.) 
 
However, the
Court notes that Plaintiff continued making complaints after January 2017. In Jumaane,
the plaintiff testified that he knew future efforts to make changes would be
futile and he no longer had any hope that the racism would end. (Jumaane,
supra, Cal.App.4th at 1404.) Here, on the other hand, Plaintiff does not
provide similar testimony. Moreover, since Plaintiff continued making
complaints after January 2017, it does not indicate that Plaintiff knew future
efforts to make changes would be futile. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶¶ 46, 47.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds the adverse employment actions engaged in by Defendants did not
reach a degree of permanence until Plaintiff’s ultimate termination on October
7, 2019, which Defendants do not dispute falls within the statute of
limitations. Thus, the continuing alleged harassment and adverse actions
continued into the limitations period and those that fell outside of the
limitations period are not barred. In sum, the Court does not find Plaintiff
failed to exhaust her administrative remedies and that her claims are
time-barred.
 
G.     First and
Third Causes of Action: Discrimination and Retaliation
 
Defendants
move for summary adjudication as to the first and third causes of actions for
discrimination and retaliation on the ground that Defendants had a legitimate
business reason for the actions they took against Plaintiff. 
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege “that (1) he was a member
of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he sought or was
performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse
employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available
job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz
v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) To satisfy its
initial summary judgment burden, moving party employer must either undermine an
element of plaintiff's prima facie case by affirmatively negating it or showing
plaintiff cannot prove it, or provide a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for
the adverse employment action. (McGrory v. Applied Signal Tech., Inc.¿(2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1523.) 
 
To show
retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show the following elements: (1)
plaintiff engaged in protected activity, (2) adverse employment action, (3)
retaliatory intent, and (4) a causal link between the protected activity and
the adverse employment action. (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) If the employer
produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption
of retaliation ‘drops out of the picture,’ and the burden shifts back to the
employee to prove intentional retaliation. (Ibid.) A defendant moving
for summary judgment, however, may skip to the second step of the analysis and
demonstrate that it had a legitimate business reason, unrelated to race, other
protected classification, or retaliation, for taking its employment action. (Guz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 357.) The plaintiff then has “the burden to rebut this
facially dispositive showing by pointing to evidence which nonetheless raises a
rational inference that intentional discrimination [or retaliation] occurred.”
(Ibid.) 
 
In her FAC, Plaintiff alleges that the adverse employment
action in support of her discrimination and retaliation causes of action were
motivated by her protected statuses (age, race, disability, origin, and
ancestry), under a disparate treatment theory.
 
Defendants
assert they had a legitimate business reason for terminating Plaintiff. In
support, Defendants cite to the declaration of Keith Knox, the head of the
Department of Treasurer and Tax Collector. (Knox Decl., ¶ 2.) Knox states he
was the final decision maker for Plaintiff’s discharge. (Knox Decl., ¶ 4.) Knox
further states:
 
“Based on my review of the report, it was determined that Ms.
Tahmazian engaged in a pattern of inappropriate behavior with staff spanning
2013 through 2016, Ms. Tahmazian engagedin inappropriate behavior in the
County’s Intake Specialist Unit (CISU) office, Ms. Tahmazian inappropriately
went to the executive offices of the Board and demanded a meeting with deputy
staff, Ms. Tahmazian used the Department’s email and workstation in violation
of policy, and Ms. Tahmazian failed to cooperate with the administrative
investigation interview process. As a result of Ms. Tahmazian’s conduct, the
Sheriff’s Department implemented new security measures at the Board offices on
the 8th floor. The policy violations for the above conduct included the
violation of the Code of Conduct Policy, the Telephone Usage and
Telecommunications Equipment Policy, the Internet, Intranet and Email Access
Policy, Countywide Board of Supervisors’ Policies [Use of County Information
Technology Resources, Electronic Communication], the Countywide Agreement for
Acceptable Use and Confidentiality of County’s Information Technology Assets,
Computers, Networks, Systems and Data, and the County’s Policy on Cooperation
in the Administrative Investigation Process.
 
After reviewing the investigative report, I also reviewed Ms.
Tahmazian’s work and disciplinary history and determined that Ms. Tahmazian had
other similar policy violations, including a written reprimand for violation of
the County’s IT policy, a confirmation of counseling for failure to conduct
herself in a professional manner, a written reprimand for failing to conduct
herself in a professional and courteous manner, a Notice of Suspension for
violating County IT policy and the departmental Code of Conduct, and a
notification of administrative investigation regarding her interactions with
other departments [with a reminder to get approval prior to leaving her work
area].
 
Based on my review of the investigation report, Ms. Tahmazian’s
work history, her disciplinary history, the Countywide Disciplinary Guidelines,
and discipline proposed by management, I decided that it was appropriate to
issue Ms. Tahmazian a Notice of Discharge.”
 
(Knox Decl., ¶¶
4-8.)
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds Defendants have established they a legitimate
business reason for terminating Plaintiff. Defendants have carried its initial
burden.
 
a.       Plaintiff’s
burden
 
In
Plaintiff’s opposition, she argues: (1) direct evidence of discrimination
negates summary adjudication, and (2) pretext proves discrimination and
retaliation. 
 
                                                              
i.     
Direct Evidence 
 
When direct evidence of discrimination is present, there is
no need for inferences, presumptions, or shifting burdens, rendering unnecessary the test
in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792. Further,
“showing that a significant participant in an employment decision exhibited
discriminatory animus is enough to raise an inference that the employment
decision itself was discriminatory. . .” (Id. at 551.) “The decision as
to an employer’s true motivation plainly is one reserved to the trier of fact.”
(O’Mary v. Mitsubishi Electronics America (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 563,
575.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that Forte and Rubio, who were involved in Plaintiff’s
termination stated that Defendants intended to get rid of the older debt
collectors, clean house, and hire young Mexican employees. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff contends that when such direct evidence of bias is present,
summary judgment and adjudication must be denied. (Ash v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(2006) 546 U.S. 454, 456.)
 
However, the
Court does not find Plaintiff has shown direct evidence of discrimination. “To
rise to the level of direct evidence of discrimination, this Court has stated
that ‘isolated comments must be contemporaneous with the discharge or causally
related to the discharge decision making process.’” (Trop v. Sony Pictures
Entertainment, Inc., (2005) 129 Cal. App. 4th 1133, 1147.) The comment that
Plaintiff is referring to was made in or around mid-2015. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶
12.) Thus, it was not made contemporaneously to Plaintiff’s termination, but it
was made four years prior to her discharge. 
Plaintiff has also not established that it was causally related to the
discharge decision making process, as Plaintiff has not sufficiently shown that
Forte, Rubio or Panossian were the decisionmakers for Plaintiff’s termination. 
 
                                                            
ii.     
Pretext 
 
Here, Plaintiff submits sufficient
evidence, that when considered all together, show that Defendants’ presented
reasons were pretextual.
 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ disparate
treatment shows pretext. Plaintiff puts forth evidence that older employees
were treated less than younger peers, which evidences Defendants’
discriminatory motive. Plaintiff asserts in her declaration that she, and other
employees over the age of 40, found themselves excluded from both training and
meetings while younger employees were allowed to attend. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶
35.) Further, all but one of the employees who were terminated under Panosian
were over the age of 40. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 78.)  In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
statistical evidence fails to account any other variables. However, Defendants
do not present specific evidence as to what other variables or reasons there
were for the alleged disparate treatment. For example, Defendants do not
present reasons why the other employees over the age of 40 were terminated. When
“the reason involves subjective criteria, the evidence must provide fair notice
as to how the employer applied the standards to the employee's own
circumstances. Failing to provide such detail—that is, offering a vague
reason—is the equivalent of offering no reason at all.” (Figueroa v. Pompeo
(DC Cir. 2019) 923 F3d 1078, 1092—employer must offer admissible evidence of
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason that is clear and reasonably specific.)
Thus, here, the Court does not find Defendants’ argument sufficient to prove
the disparity is not further evidence of pretext.
 
Plaintiff asserts that the timing of Defendants’ adverse actions
sufficiently infers pretext. The Court agrees that a reasonable juror could
conclude that timing infers pretext. “Pretext may…be inferred from the timing
of the company’s termination decision, by the identity of the person making the
decision, and by the terminated employee’s job performance before the
termination.” (Flait v. N. Am. Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467,
479.) The Ninth Circuit has found that “causation can be inferred from timing
alone where an adverse employment action follows on the heels of protected
activity.” (Villiarimo v. Aloha Island Air, Inc. (9th Cir. 2002) 281
F.3d 1054, 1065; Matthews v. Trilogy Comm’ns, Inc., 143 F.3d 1160, 1166
(8th Cir. 1998) (a gap of only two months between the protected activity and
the employee’s discharge may create an inference of a retaliatory motive).) For
example, Plaintiff asserts that in December 2015, she complained to the County
Policy of Equity (“CEOP”) department regarding her alleged harassment and
mistreatment by Defendants. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 21.) A few months later in or
around February 2016, Plaintiff asserts Panosian threatened to have cases taken away from her. (Plaintiff’s
Decl., ¶ 28.) Plaintiff also asserts
that in March 2019 she took medical leave, and then was subsequently terminated
for alleged occurrences that took place years before. (Plaintiff’s
Decl., ¶ 21.) Further, Plaintiff contends that her performance reviews make no
mention of Plaintiff’s alleged performance issues for which she was terminated
for. Plaintiff asserts that she did not receive negative comments on her
performance reviews from 2010-2018. (Plaintiff’s Exs. 82-90.) “Pretext may also
be inferred . . . [from] the terminated employee’s job performance before
termination.” (Flait v. North American Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
467, 479.) Thus, Plaintiff assert this further evidences pretext.
 
Plaintiff has met her burden of showing a triable issue of material fact
as to the first and third causes of action. Accordingly, the Court DENIES summary adjudication as to the
first and third causes of action. 
 
H.     Fourth Cause
of Action: Failure to Accommodate 
 
Defendants moves for summary adjudication as to the fourth cause
of action for failure to accommodate.
 
“The essential elements of a failure
to accommodate claim are: 1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the
FEHA; 2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform
the essential functions of the position); and 3) the employer failed to
reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo
Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256.)¿ “[T]he employer cannot prevail on
summary judgment on a claim of failure to reasonably accommodate unless it
establishes through undisputed facts that ‘1) reasonable accommodation was
offered and refused, 2) there simply was no vacant position within the employer’s
organization for which the disabled employee was qualified and which disabled
employee was capable of performing with or without accommodation, or (3) the
employer did everything in its power to find a reasonable accommodation, but
the informal interactive process broke down because the employee failed to
engage in discussions in good faith.’ [Citation.]” (King v. United Parcel
Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 442.)¿
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s failure to accommodate cause of action fails because Defendants did provide Plaintiff
with a reasonable accommodation.  Defendants assert that the only claim related
to Plaintiff’s disability involved Plaintiff’s request for a higher footrest
due to swelling in her feet. Defendants assert that Plaintiff was provided with
her requested footrest. (Navarro Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, Defendants have carried
their burden. 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that she was eventually
provided with the requested footrest. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court does not find Plaintiff has carried her burden or
set forth a failure to accommodate claim.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action.
 
I.       
Fifth Cause of Action: Failure to enter into Interactive Process
 
Defendants move for summary adjudication as to the fifth
cause of action for failure to enter into interactive process.
 
FEHA requires
employers to timely engage in good faith interactive process with a disabled
employee to determine effective reasonable accommodations in response to a
request for reasonable accommodation. (Cal. Govt. Code, § 12940, subd. (n).)
"To prevail on a claim under section 12940, subdivision (n) for failure to
engage in the interactive process, an employee must identify a reasonable
accommodation that would have been available at the time the interactive
process should have occurred." (Scotch v. Art Institute of California
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1018- 1019.) "[I]f the [interactive] process
fails, responsibility for the failure rests with the party who failed to
participate in good faith. While a claim of failure to accommodate is
independent of a cause of action for failure to engage in an interactive
dialogue, each necessarily implicates the other." (Gelfo v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 54 [internal citations omitted].)
"FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to identify
reasonable accommodations, not necessarily ritualized discussions."
(Nealy, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 379.)  
 
Defendants argue that at no time did Plaintiff request, and was denied, the
ability to engage in the interactive process. (Goldsmith Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. B-C.) When
Plaintiff requested medical leave in March 2019, Defendants accommodated
Plaintiff’s leave of absence request. The Court finds Defendants have carried
their burden.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that no
discussion was had to allow Plaintiff to return to work. 
 
However, Plaintiff does not provide any authority that Defendants
were required to engage in the interactive process with her after she was
terminated. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff failed to prove a triable
issue of material fact. Therefore, the Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to
the fifth cause of action. 
 
J.       
Sixth Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment and Retaliation
 
Defendants argue that the sixth cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment, discrimination, and retaliation fails because Plaintiff’s FEHA
claims are without merit.
 
However, as Defendants are not entitled to summary adjudication as to the
other FEHA causes of action for harassment, discrimination and retaliation, the
Court cannot find that the sixth cause of action is without merit. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication as to
the sixth cause of action.
 
In sum, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the first,
second, third and sixth causes of action. Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. 
 
 
K.      Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Depositions 
 
a.       Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel submitted a declaration attesting to their meet and confer efforts.
(Gbewonyo Decl., ¶ 30, Exhibit 24). The Court finds Plaintiff has satisfied its
meet and confer obligation. 
 
b.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves
for an order compelling Defendants to produce the following witnesses: (1)
Jerry Morris, (2) Joseph Kelly; (3 Marisella Chavez, (4) Patricia Andry, (5)
Elizabeth Zepeda, (6) Beatriz Zaldana, (7) Fernando Castellano, (8) Janice
Stallsworth, (9) Lisbette Baltierra, and (10) Rosalva Luna. 
 
Pursuant to
Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.280, the employee whose deposition was noticed
was required to appear pursuant to the notice, without a subpoena. 
(a)    The service
of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any
deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection
and copying.
(b)   The
attendance and testimony of any other deponent, as well as the production by
the deponent of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying, requires the service on the deponent of a
deposition subpoena under Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 2020.010). 
 
Cal. Civ.
Proc. Code § 2025.280.
 
On June 26,
2024, Plaintiff noticed the depositions of (1) Jerry Morris, (2) Joseph Kelly;
(3 Marisella Chavez, (4) Patricia Andry, (5) Elizabeth Zepeda, (6) Beatriz
Zaldana, (7) Fernando Castellano, (8) Janice Stallsworth, (9) Lisbette
Baltierra, and (10) Rosalva Luna. (Gbewonyo Decl., ¶ 4). Defendants have
objected to these depositions. (Gbewonyo Decl., ¶ 5). Plaintiff asserts these
are individuals whom Defendants identified in their discovery responses as
persons who participated in and or provided information relied upon in the
decision to terminate Plaintiff’s employment. (Gbewonyo Decl., ¶ 6). Defendants
heavily relied upon evidence related to these individuals in support of their
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.
(Gbewonyo Decl., ¶ 22).
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues this motion is moot because Defendant has met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel and agreed to produce seven of the witnesses
under its control.
 
However, in
reply, Plaintiff contends that witnesses still have not been produced to sit
for deposition, nor have dates been provided for all of the witnesses. Defendant informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Mr. Kelly was out of
the country under November 2024. (Hernandez Decl., ¶ 5) Defendant informed
Plaintiff’s counsel that Mr. Morris was retired. Lastly, Defendant informed
Plaintiff’s counsel that Ms. Zepeda was not under Defendant’s control, and it
did not have contact information for her. (Hernandez Decl., ¶ 5)
 
Since
Defendant was served with the deposition notice but has failed to produce the
deponents, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion as to witnesses under
Defendant’s control. 
Thus, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motions to compel the depositions of: (1) Joseph Kelly; (2)
Marisella Chavez, (3) Patricia Andry, (4) Beatriz Zaldana, (5) Fernando
Castellano, (6) Janice Stallsworth, (7) Lisbette Baltierra, and (8) Rosalva
Luna.
 
c.       Issue Sanctions
A misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).)  A misuse of the discovery process also includes disobeying a
court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) A
court may impose issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or monetary sanctions
against a party engaging in misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030.) Where an issue sanction is imposed, “designated facts shall be taken
as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party
adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (b).) An issue sanction may also involve “any party engaging in
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) An evidence sanction
involves “an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).)  
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.)
“[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  (Ibid.)
Where discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)   
Here,
Plaintiff requests issue sanctions. However, the Court finds that issue
sanctions against Defendants are not appropriate at this time. Although Defendant
failed to produce witnesses, the Court must take an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions. Pursuant to Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra,
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992, “discovery statutes evince an incremental
approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending
with the ultimate sanction of termination.” Further, Defendant has agreed to
produce the witnesses under its control.
 
d.      Monetary
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant.
 
California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 2023.030 provides that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771, 791.) 
 
Counsel’s declaration in support of the instant
motion sets forth counsel’s hourly rate of $850 and the time spent on the
instant motions. Counsel attests that Plaintiff will and has incurred
attorney’s fees and costs totaling $5,100 for six hours of work. 
 
As discussed above, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion. The Court finds sanctions warranted. 
 
Thus,
monetary sanctions are imposed against Defendant and Defendant is ordered to
pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $5,100, within thirty (30) days. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED as to the first, second, third and sixth causes of
action. 
Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. 
Thus, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motions to compel the
depositions of: (1) Joseph Kelly; (2) Marisella Chavez, (3) Patricia Andry, (4)
Beatriz Zaldana, (5) Fernando Castellano, (6) Janice Stallsworth, (7) Lisbette
Baltierra, and (8) Rosalva Luna.
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. Defendant is ordered
to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $5,100, within thirty (30) days. 