 Case Number:  23STCV11416    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  73 09/10/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YANG, et al. v. WANG, et al. (23STCV11416)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party: Justin Owens (Stradling Yocca Carlson & Rauth
LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Albert Abkarian
(Albert Abkarian & Associates), Noah Green (The Green Firm)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR TERMINATING
SANCTIONS OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, ISSUE SANCTIONS, AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
AGAINST DEFENDANT JIA QI WANG (filed 08/14/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Sanctions against
Defendant Wang is GRANTED as follows: 
(1) GRANTED
as to terminating sanctions; 
(2) MOOT as
to issue sanctions; and 
(3) GRANTED
as to monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,500. 
 
 The Court
GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for terminating sanctions and strikes Defendant Wang’s
Answer and enters default against Defendant Wang. Plaintiffs may file a default
judgment packet to request entry of default judgment against Defendant Wang.  
 
Defendant
Wang is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel of
record, in the total amount of $7,500, within thirty (30) days. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
May 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Richard Yang and Seijoon Hwang (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Jia Qi Wang (“Wang”), Hao
Luo, Albert Abkarian (“Abkarian”), YMIP, Inc. (“YMIP”), YMENT Group Inc., and OBOA,
Inc. (“OBOA”). 
 
On
October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
the following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Fraudulent Inducement 
C/A
2: Negligent Misrepresentation
C/A
3: Fraud 
C/A
4: Conversion 
C/A
5: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
C/A
6: Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
C/A
7: Aiding and Abetting Fraud
C/A
8: California Penal Code Section 496
C/A
9: Accounting
C/A
10: Unfair Business Practices (Violation
of Business and Professions Code Section 17200)
 
The FAC alleges that Defendants induced Plaintiffs to invest more
than $1.45 million into a fraudulent investment scam. The FAC alleges that
Defendants falsely misrepresented facts about the company that Plaintiffs
invested in and falsely misrepresented that Plaintiffs’ would be paid back for
their investments. 
 
On August 14,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion for Terminating, or in the alternative,
Issue Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions, against Defendant Wang, due to:
·      
Defendant’s ongoing willful misuse of
the discovery process and ongoing willful violation of the Court’s June 26,
2024 discovery order
·      
Defendant violated the Court’s June 26, 2024 discovery order requiring him to provide
Code-compliant verified responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set
One and to pay monetary sanctions of $2,310.00 (the “June 26 Order”).
·      
Plaintiffs request terminating sanctions and monetary sanctions in
the amount of $7,500 against Defendant Wang personally.
·      
If the Court is unwilling to grant terminating sanctions,
Plaintiffs requests issue sanctions.
Defendant did not file an opposition.
Plaintiffs filed a reply asserting the Court should take Defendant’s failure to
oppose as implied consent.
II. ANALYSIS
 

A.    
Legal Standard 
A misuse of
the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)  A misuse
of the discovery process also includes disobeying a court order to provide
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) A court may impose issue
sanctions, evidence sanctions, or monetary sanctions against a party engaging
in misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030.) Where an
issue sanction is imposed, “designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) An
issue sanction may also involve “any party engaging in misuse of the discovery
process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) An evidence sanction involves “an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (c).)  
A terminating
sanction may be imposed by the court by one of the following orders: (1) an
order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) an order staying further
proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party; or (4) an
order rending judgment by default against that party. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (d)(1)-(4).)  
“The
discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th
967, 992.)  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the dereliction,
and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the
party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.) “[C]ontinuing misuses
of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the
sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  (Ibid.) Where
discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)   
“A decision
to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.” (Creed-21 v.
City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.) A trial court’s order to
impose terminating sanctions will be reversed only if it “was arbitrary,
capricious, or whimsical.” (Ibid.) Trial courts have properly imposed
terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more
discovery orders. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) Terminating sanctions are warranted when a party’s lack
of compliance with the discovery process has caused the opposing party
prejudice. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 989.) 
B.    
Terminating Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs
request terminating sanctions and an order of $7,500 in further monetary
sanctions. In the alternative, Plaintiffs request issue sanctions establishing
facts sought from the unanswered discovery.
Plaintiffs
asserts that Defendant Wang violated
the Court’s June 26, 2024 Order granting Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One. As
the Court found in its June 26, 2024 Order, Defendant responded to each of
Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories with boilerplate objections. (Court’s 06/26/24
Minute Order, p. 4.) The Court further ordered monetary sanctions in the amount
of $2,310.
The Court finds that imposition of terminating sanctions is warranted.
As
the court stated in Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 262, 279, “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” The
court may issue terminating or evidentiary sanctions against a party who
misuses the discovery process, which includes failing
to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive
discovery response, and disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (CCP §
2023.010(d), (f), (g).) 
 
Here, the record indicates Defendant has failed to
respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests and disobeyed the Court’s order. The discovery requests in question were initially served in January
2024. The Court granted Plaintiff’s motions to compel further discovery
responses and request for monetary sanctions. However, as of today, Defendant
has not submitted code-compliant discovery responses. Further, Plaintiffs’
counsel states that on August 13, 2024, they met and conferred with Defendant’s
counsel who “confirmed that Defendant Jia Qi Wang had ceased all communications
with his counsel of record in this action many months prior.” (Owens Decl., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel also contend that Defendant’s counsel had stated that they
will not be generating any additional responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery
requests. (Owens Decl., ¶ 8.) No opposition to the current
motion for terminating sanctions has been filed. Defendant has disobeyed the
Court’s orders to provide responses and Defendant has failed to pay the Court
ordered monetary sanctions to Plaintiffs. It appears that lesser sanctions
would likely not prevent further discovery abuse. Thus, there is sufficient
cause for terminating sanctions.  
 
Accordingly, terminating sanctions are GRANTED.
Because the Court has granted terminating sanctions, the request for issue
sanctions is MOOT. 

 
C.    
Monetary Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions against Defendant for bringing
the instant motion. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 2023.030
provides that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A court has discretion to fix
the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors,
LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.) 
 
Counsel’s declaration in support of the motion sets forth
counsels’ hourly rates and the time spent on the instant motion. Counsel attests
that Plaintiffs have incurred attorney’s fees and costs totaling $7,500 in
bringing the instant motion. 
 
The Court finds sanctions are warranted. Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in
the amount of $7,500. Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs in
the total amount of $7,500, within thirty (30) days. 
 
 II. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Sanctions against Defendant Wang is GRANTED as
follows: 
(1)
GRANTED as to terminating sanctions; 
(2)
MOOT as to issue sanctions; and 
(3)
GRANTED as to monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,500. 
 
 The
Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for terminating sanctions and strikes
Defendant Wang’s Answer and enters default against Defendant Wang. Plaintiffs
may file a default judgment packet to request entry of default judgment against
Defendant Wang.  
 
Defendant
Wang is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel of
record, in the total amount of $7,500, within thirty (30) days. 