 Case Number:  24NWCV00662    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  C SOCAL LIEN SOLUTIONS
LLC v. GOODMAN SANTA FE SPRINGS SPE LLC
CASE
NO.:  24NWCV00662
HEARING:  07/11/24
 
#6
 
Defendant GOODMAN SANTA FE SPRINGS SPE LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint is CONTINUED to Thursday, August 15, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in
Dept. SE-C. 
 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
Defendant
GOODMAN SANTA FE SPRINGS SPE LLC generally demurs to each cause of action
contained in Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
On
June 26, 2024, before Plaintiff’s Opposition to this Demurrer was due,
Plaintiff filed and served a Notice of Errata intended to “augment inadvertent
errors in its complaint at Exhibit ‘D’.” (Ntc. of Errata, 06/26/24.) It appears
that this new “Exhibit D” intends to amend the initial pleading. 
 
“A
party may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before the
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion
to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the
amended pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an
opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.” (emphasis added.) (CCP
§472.)  
 
Although
Plaintiff did not file, serve, or move for leave to file an amended pleading, it is well-settled that
California recognizes “a general rule of…liberal allowance of amendments…” (Nestle
v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.) 
 
In
the interests of judicial efficiency and in light of the liberal policy
concerning amendments, the Court utilizes its discretion to grant Plaintiff
leave to file a First Amended Complaint incorporating the new exhibit attached
as Exhibit D to Plaintiff’s Notice of Errata. 
 
Plaintiff
is ORDERED to file and serve a First Amended Complaint within 5 days
from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. If the FAC is timely filed
and served, the subject Demurrer will be taken off-calendar as MOOT on the
continued hearing date. If the FAC is not timely filed and served, the Court
will issue a ruling on this subject Demurrer, on the merits. 
 