 Case Number:  23NWCV02754    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  C GIA DEVELOPMENT,
LLC v. SC REALTY HOLDINGS II LLC 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02754
HEARING:  07/11/24
 
#4 
 
     I.       
Defendant SC REALTY HOLDINGS II LLC’s unopposed
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend in part and OVERRULED in part. 
    II.       
Defendant STEPHEN J. TYDE’s unopposed Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend in part and
OVERRULED in part.
  III.       
Defendant TOORAK CAPITAL PARTNERS, LLC’s unopposed
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend in
part and OVERRULED in part.
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
No Oppositions filed as of July 8, 2024. The Court notes
that Attorney Omar Gastelum’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff
GIA DEVELOPMENT, LLC (“Plaintiff”) was GRANTED on January 16, 2024. As of July
8, 2024, Plaintiff, a corporate entity, remains unrepresented. 
 
This action concerning real property was filed by Plaintiff
on August 30, 2023. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following relevant facts: “On or
about April 27, 2023, Plaintiff and Defendant SC Realty entered into a Purchase
and Sale Agreement regarding the purchase of the Property, with the following
terms: 
·       
Plaintiff was to purchase the Property from
Defendant SC Realty for the total amount of $710,000.00, with an initial
deposit of $21,300.00, to be paid to Seller’s listing agent only. 
·       
Plaintiff was going to obtain a rehab loan. 
·       
Closing of title was to be forty-five (45) days
after fully executed escrow instructions. 
·       
Seller was to provide good, insurable, and
marketable title to the Property, free from all encumbrances. Pursuant to
Paragraph 11 of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, Seller represents that it has
good, marketable title to the Property.” (Complaint ¶9.) 
The Purchase and Sale Agreement is signed by Defendant
STEPHEN J. TYDE (“Tyde”) on behalf of Defendant SC REALTY (“SC Realty”), and is
attached as Exhibit A to the Complaint. (Id.) On July 12, 2023, Plaintiff and
SC Realty agreed to extend the close of escrow. (Id. at ¶10.) On or about June
28, 2023, Plaintiff discovered three issues affecting title to the Property—a
Notice of Lis Pendens recorded on February 1, 2022; a Notice of Lis Pendens
recorded on March 17, 2023; and a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale recorded on March
22, 2023. (Id. ¶11.) “On March 22, 2023, a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was
recorded wherein Assured Lender Services, Inc., as Trustee, granted title to
the Property to SC Realty, after SC Realty purchased the Property by way of an
auction and submitted the highest bid.” (Id. ¶12.) On March 23, 2023, Defendant
TOORAK CAPITAL PARTNERS, LLC (“Toorak”) recorded an Assignment of Deed of Trust
from Toorak to SC Realty, which created a break in the chain of title since no
document reflecting a transfer of interest to Toorak exists, resulting in
another cloud on title. (Id. ¶13.) Plaintiff alleges that SC Realty did not
clear title in advance of the July 28, 2023 closing date. (Id. ¶14.) “Despite
refusing to clear title and close on the transaction with Plaintiff, SC Realty
has not returned Plaintiff’s earnest money deposit in the amount of
$21,300.00.” (Id. ¶19.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts the following causes of
action: 
 
(1) Breach
of Contract; 
(2) Specific
Performance; 
(3) Fraud;

(4) Accounting;

(5) Declaratory
Relief; and
(6) Tortious
Interference with Contract 
 
The first and second causes of action are asserted against
SC Realty and Tyde. The third, fourth, and fifth causes of action are asserted
against all defendants. The sixth cause of action is asserted against Toorak
and Tyde. 
 
Defendants SC Realty; Tyde; and Toorak (collectively
“Defendants”) separately (but identically) specially and generally demur to the
first through sixth causes of action. 
 
First through Fifth Causes of Action – As to TYDE ONLY
 
Defendants demur on the grounds that the first through fifth
causes of action are uncertain as to the individual defendant, Stephen J. Tyde,
because the Purchase and Sale Agreement is between Plaintiff and SC Realty, and
was only signed by Tyde in his capacity as President of SC Realty. Plaintiff
does not allege a theory of alter ego liability. The unopposed demurrer to the
first through fifth causes of action as to Defendant Tyde is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
First and Second Causes of Action – Breach of Contract
and Specific Performance, as to SC REALTY only
 
Whether it is written, oral, or implied, the elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract are as follows: (1) the existence of a contract;
(2) Plaintiff’s performance or excused non-performance; (3) Defendants’ breach;
and (4) resulting damage to Plaintiff. (Reichert v. General Ins. Co.
(1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.) “If an action is based on
a breach of written contract, the terms must be set forth verbatim in the body
of the complaint or a copy of the contract must be attached and incorporated by
reference.” (Id. at 459.) Alternatively, if the claim is based on a written
contract, then “a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather
than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG
Specialty Ins. Co., (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) 
 
“To obtain specific performance after a breach of contract,
a plaintiff must generally show: (1) the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an
underlying contract that is both reasonable and supported by adequate
consideration; (3) the existence of a mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual
terms which are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce; and (5) a substantial similarity of the requested performance to that
promised in the contract. [Citations.]” (Real Estate Analytics, LLC v.
Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.) 
 
Defendants argue that these causes of action are insufficiently
pled because Plaintiff fails to allege its performance under the contract. The
demurrer is OVERRULED. Notwithstanding Defendants arguments to the contrary,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges it’s excused non-performance: “As a result of SC
Realty’s breach of contract, Plaintiff was unable to close.” (Complaint ¶15.)
The arguments raised by Defendants involve factual determinations
inappropriately decided at this time. 
 
Third Cause of Action – Fraud (as to SC REALTY and TOORAK)
 
The elements of a fraudulent misrepresentation cause of
action are: (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure);
(b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to
induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Engalia
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) Whether
intentional or negligent in nature, fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) Fraud
must be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and
in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of
the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of
the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said, or wrote, and when the
representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
645.) 
 
The unopposed demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Plaintiff does not allege who made what
misrepresentations, if any, that Plaintiff justifiably relied upon. Fraud must
be pled with specificity, and Plaintiff’s allegations do not suffice. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Accounting (as to SC REALTY and TOORAK)
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that
a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 910.)
The
unopposed demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff made a deposit in the amount of
$21,300.00 to Defendants SC Realty and Stephen, and made other expenditures.”
(Complaint ¶47.) Plaintiff does not allege that some balance is due that can
only be ascertained by an accounting. 
Fifth Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief (as to SC REALTY and
TOORAK)
 
“Any person interested under a contract, or who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, may, in
cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties, bring an original action for a declaration of his or her
rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the contract.” (CCP §1060.) To state a
cause of action for declaratory relief under CCP §1060, a pleading must allege
facts from which the court may determine that an actual controversy relating to
the legal rights and duties of the respective parties exists. (Alturas v.
Gloster (1940) 16 Cal.2d 46, 48.) “An actual controversy ‘is one which
admits of definitive and conclusive relief by judgment. The judgment must
decree, not suggest, what the parties may or may not do.’” (In re Claudia E.
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 627, 638.) 
 
“Strictly speaking, a general demurrer is not an appropriate
means of testing the merits the controversy in a declaratory relief action
because the plaintiff is entitled to a declaration of his rights even if it be
adverse.” (Herzberg v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 24.)
When the complaint “sets forth facts showing an actual controversy between the
parties relating to their respective legal rights and duties and requests that
these rights and duties be adjudged, the plaintiff has stated a legally
sufficient complaint for declaratory relief. It is an abuse of discretion for a
judge to sustain a demurrer to such a complaint and to dismiss the action, even
if the judge concludes that the plaintiff is not entitled to a favorable
declaration.” (Qualified Patients Ass’n. v. City of Anaheim (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 734, 756.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs adequately allege the existence of a
dispute as to the rights and duties of the parties with respect to the Purchase
and Sale Agreement. A cause of action for declaratory relief has been
sufficiently alleged. The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 

Sixth Cause of Actinon – Tortious Interference with Contract (against TOORAK
and TYDE only)
 
With
respect the sixth cause of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
allegations are insufficient to bind Tyde as an officer of either SC Realty or
Toorak, as an individual and that Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient factual
allegations to maintain this claim against either Toorak or Tyde. 
 
The elements for intentional interference with contractual
relations are: (1) that a valid contract existed between plaintiff and a third
party; that (2) defendant knew of the existence of the contract; and (3)
defendant intentionally engaged in conduct which induced the third party to
breach the contract with plaintiff; (4) defendant intended to induce a breach
of the contract; and (5) the acts or conduct of the defendant caused plaintiff
damages. (See Dryden v. Tri-Valley Growers (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 990,
995.)
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED. Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges that “a valid Purchase and Sale Agreement existed between
Plaintiff and SC Realty, of which Defendants Stephen and Toorak were aware. The
principal of Toorak, Stephen J. Tyde, Jr., is also the signatory for SC Realty
on the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and therefore, was aware of the existence
of the contract. Defendants Stephen and Toorak then took intentional steps to
interrupt Plaintiff’s contractual relation with SC Realty by failing to
withdraw the Lis Pendens on the Property, and remove any other clouds on title,
to clear title and allow Plaintiff to purchase the Property in order to obtain
a larger profit on a subsequent sale.” (Complaint ¶54.) Specificity is not
required to allege this cause of action. Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient
to withstand demurrer. The arguments raised by Defendants in demurrer involve
factual determinations improperly decided at this juncture. 
 
 
 