 Case Number:  23NWCV00596    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  C ARAMBULA v.
CABRERA
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00596
HEARING:  07/11/24
 
#8
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This negligence action was filed by Plaintiff DONNA DEE
ARAMBULA (“Plaintiff” on February 25, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that on February 28, 2021, Defendant
VINCENT MICHAEL MATAMOROZ (“Matamoroz”) “was
driving carelessly and was under the influence of alcohol. [Matamoroz]
blatantly and dangerously disregarded the surrounding traffic conditions,
failed to yield to Plaintiff’s vehicle and being unable to stop in time
violently broad-sided Plaintiff’s vehicle to hit the left center divider, spun
around and hit the right center divider that resulted in serious injuries and
damages to Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶9.) 
 
In addition to claim of negligence, Plaintiff’s Complaint
also includes a cause of action for “wanton and reckless misconduct” and
includes a prayer for punitive damages. 
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s allegations pertaining to and
seeking punitive damages from the Complaint. The prayer for punitive damages in
this case is premised on the contention that Defendant Matamoroz was driving
while intoxicated at the time of the Subject Accident.  
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
Punitive damages must be pled
with specificity. Plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the
defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious. (Smith v. Sup.
Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-42.) 
 
Allegations that a defendant
exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show
malice. (Taylor v. Sup. Ct. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) The act of
operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of “malice
under CCP §3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious
disregard of the probable dangerous consequences. “One who willfully consumes
alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter
must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired physical and
mental facilities with a vehicle capable of great force and speed, reasonably
may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the safety of others.” (Id.
at 897.) According to Taylor, driving while intoxicated, absent
additional facts, does not always support a claim for punitive damages. There
must be pleaded “specific facts from which the conscious disregard of probable
injury to others may reasonably be inferred.” (Dawes v. Sup. Ct. (1980)
111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.) 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges,
among other things, that while intoxicated Matamoroz began driving and “racing”
his vehicle (¶17(B)) at an “unsafe speed” and drove “erratically” on the
freeway (¶17(F)). Matamoroz “began weaving in and out of his lane … and lost
control of his vehicle” (¶17(G)). Further, Matamoroz “allowed his vehicle to
veer to the right, across the right shoulder, causing the right side of his
vehicle to impact the sound wall” and “veer across lanes to the left” before
striking Plaintiff’s vehicle (¶17(H)). Matamoroz had a blood alcohol level of
0.17% (¶17(21)).
 
The Court determines that the
allegations lack the specificity required to demonstrate conscious disregard of
probable injury to others.  
 
The Motion to Strike is GRANTED
with 30 days leave to amend. 