  Case Number:  23STCV10282    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  62 tentative Ruling
Judge Rolf Treu

Department 62

Hearing Date:                          Monday, January 22,
2024
Case Name:                             DOE v. Jack in
the Box, Inc., et al.
Case No.:                                23STCV10282
Motion:                                  Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay Action 
Moving Party:                         Defendants Jack in the
Box Inc. and Del Taco LLC 
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Defendants
Jack in the Box Inc. and Del Taco LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Action is DENIED.
 
Defendants to give
notice.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            Around September 2000, Plaintiff
Jane Doe was employed as a store manager by Defendants Jack in the Box Inc.
(“Jack”), Del Taco Restaurants Inc. (“Del”) and Del Taco LLC (“Taco”).  Plaintiff alleges that she suffered severe
sexual harassment, battery and assault at the hands of her supervisor,
Defendant Santiago Garcia.  Plaintiff
alleges she reported the sexual harassment Defendants Marcos Lopez, Carol
Zamora, Violet Cueva and Cindy Leger, all of whom held supervisory or human
resources positions as Defendants Jack, Del and Taco’s employees.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants Lopez, Zamora,
Cueva and Leger did not respond to her complaints properly and all Defendants
retaliated against her for her complaints, ultimately constructively discharging
Plaintiff on May 10, 2022.  
            On May 8, 2023, Plaintiff Jane Doe
filed a complaint on May 8, 2023 against Defendants alleging (1) sexual
battery; (2) sexual assault; (3) false imprisonment; (4) gender violence; (5)
sexual harassment in violation of FEHA; (6) discrimination based on sex and
gender in violation of FEHA; (7) failure to prevent harassment and
discrimination from occurring in violation of FEHA; (8) retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (9) constructive discharge in violation of public policy;
(10) harassment and aiding and abetting in violation of FEHA; (11) negligence;
(12) negligent supervision; (13) negligent failure to warn, train or education;
(14) IIED and (15) NIED.  
            On December 21, 2023, Defendants
Jack and Taco filed the instant motion to compel arbitration.  On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed
an opposition to the motion to compel. 
On January 12, 2024, Defendants Jack and Taco filed a reply.  
DISCUSSION
I.  Applicable Law
            A. 
Federal Arbitration Act
            “A written provision in any []
contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the
refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement in writing to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract,
transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
            “If any suit or proceeding be
brought in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to
arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration, the court in
which such suit is pending, upon being satisfied that the issue involved in
such suit or proceeding is referable to arbitration under such an agreement,
shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until
such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement,
providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with such
arbitration.”  (9 U.S.C. §3.)
            “[T]he United States Supreme Court
has identified three categories of activity that Congress may regulate under
the commerce power: (1) the channels of interstate commerce, (2) the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce and persons or things in interstate
commerce, and (3) those activities having a substantial relation to interstate
commerce. The party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to present
evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects one of
these three categories of activity, and failure to do so renders the FAA
inapplicable.”  (Carbajal v. CWPSC,
Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.)
            “The FAA applies to contracts that
involve interstate commerce (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a
matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the
agreement.”  (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes,
LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
In addition, the express incorporation of the FAA for the enforcement of
this arbitration agreement incorporates the procedural provisions of the FAA.
Under Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th
337, the language regarding enforcement of the arbitration agreement under the
FAA incorporates the FAA’s procedural requirements and renders CCP §1281.2(c)
inapplicable.  (Victrola 89, LLC v.
Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 344-345 (arbitration
provision providing that “enforcement [of the arbitration agreement] shall be
governed by the [FAA]” incorporated procedural provisions of the FAA and trial
court erred when it denied the motion to compel per CCP §1281.2(c).)
            B. 
California Arbitration Act
             “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b)
Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement. 
(c)
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” 
(CCP §1281.2.)
            “The trial court may resolve motions
to compel arbitration in summary proceedings, in which the trial court sits as
a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination. 
The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and the
party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 776 (trial court properly decided plaintiff’s
challenge to arbitration agreement despite delegation clause where plaintiff
attacked contract formation and very existence of agreement to arbitrate).)
            “If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.”  (CCP §1281.4 (para. 1).)
II.  Evidentiary Objections
            Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
to DOE’s Declaration are OVERRULED.  
            Plaintiff also submitted a
supplemental declaration on January 17, 2024 removing any ambiguity as to the
dates on which the events attested to occurred. 
The Court will consider the supplemental declaration, as it does not
make any other substantive changes except to definitely state the date on which
the events occurred and it does not change the Court’s analysis.     
III.  Application to Facts
            A. 
Parties’ Positions
            Defendants Jack and Taco move to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims against them.  Defendants argue Plaintiff signed valid
arbitration agreements on March 16, 2021 and April 22, 2021.  Defendants argue Plaintiff voluntarily agreed
to arbitrate any and all legal disputes she had with Defendant Taco, including
those claims alleged in her May 8, 2023 complaint.  Defendants argue the Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”) applies. Defendant argues that under both the FAA and the California
Arbitration Act (“CAA”).  
            Defendants argue the Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the “EFAA”)
does not apply here, because Plaintiff’s tort injuries purportedly accrued
before March 3, 2022, the Act’s effective date. 

            Defendants argue the arbitration
agreement also contains an enforceable delegation clause. Defendants argue any
dispute regarding the interpretation, applicability, enforceability or
formation of the arbitration agreement must be resolved by the arbitrator.  Defendants argue there is no basis to deem
the delegation clause unenforceable as unconscionable.
            Defendants argue that the
arbitration agreement is enforceable, because it satisfies all requirements of Armendariz.  Defendants argue the arbitration agreement
provides for a neutral arbitrator, allows for more than minimal discovery, requires
a written decision by the arbitrator, permits relief otherwise available in
court, does not impose unreasonable costs or fees and is bilateral.  
            Defendants argue the right to
arbitration has not been waived. 
Defendants argue the action should be stayed pending completion of
arbitration.  
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
EFAA applies to her claims.  Plaintiff
argues the EFAA became effective on March 3, 2022 and applies to any and all
claims relating to sexual assault and sexual harassment disputes. Plaintiff
argues each cause of action relates to acts of sexual battery and sexual
harassment that took place before and after March 3, 2022.  Plaintiff argues EFFA therefore applies and the
arbitration agreement is invalid and unenforceable.  Plaintiff argues Defendants fail to cite any
authority that would allow the Court to find the EFAA inapplicable merely
because the acts of sexual harassment and assault spanned several years,
occurring before and after March 3, 2022. 
Plaintiff argues she suffered at least one act of sexual assault and
battery after March 3, 2022.  
            Plaintiff argues the EFAA bars
enforcement of the delegation clause, which is part of the unenforceable
arbitration agreement under the EFAA. 
Plaintiff argues there is no authority holding that the delegation
clause remains enforceable and valid when the entirety of the arbitration
agreement is unenforceable under the EFAA. 

            Plaintiff argues any public policy
arguments by Defendants are trumped by the EFAA.  Plaintiff argues forcing her to arbitrate her
claims undermines the public policy of protecting victims under the EFAA.  
            Plaintiff argues that even if the
Court chooses to compel arbitration, it should not stay the action as to the
remaining claims.  Plaintiff argues this
would defeat the purpose of the EFAA and allow the employer to drag employees
through time consuming and expensive arbitration before facing sexual harassment
allegations in court.  
            On reply, Defendants argue Plaintiff
fails to establish with admissible, competent evidence that any of the sexual
assaults occurred after March 3, 2022.  Defendants
argue testimony that an assault occurred “around” March 8, 2022 is
inadmissible.  Defendants argue Plaintiff
admits that no acts of assault occurred after March 8, 2022.  Defendants argue Plaintiff cites no authority
in support of her argument that her claims accrued after enactment of the EFAA
due to a continuing violation.  
            Defendants argue the Court should
hold an evidentiary hearing if it is inclined to deny the motion to compel
arbitration.  Defendants argue they have
satisfied their burden by establishing that Plaintiff executed an arbitration
agreement covering her claims and that the arbitration agreement is
enforceable. 
            Defendants ask that the action be
stayed pending completion of arbitration. 
Defendants ask that the Court stay the action pending appeal if it
chooses to deny the motion to compel arbitration.
            B.  Defendants present an arbitration agreement
between Defendant Del Taco LLC and Plaintiff that applies to her claims against
both Del Taco LLC and Jack in the Box, Inc. 

            Defendants move to
compel arbitration based on the “Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims” acknowledged
and accepted by Plaintiff on March 16, 2021 and again on April 22, 2021 (the
“Arbitration Agreement”).  (Graves Dec.,
Ex. A.)  The Arbitration Agreement does
not identify Defendant Jack in the Box, Inc. as a party.  The Arbitration Agreement is between
Plaintiff and Defendant Del Taco LLC.
            However, the Arbitration Agreement
between Plaintiff and Del Taco LLC requires arbitration of any claims Plaintiff
may have against Del Taco LLC or Del Taco LLC’s “former owners, partners,
members, officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents, all subsidiaries
and affiliated entities, all benefit plans, and benefit plans’ sponsors,
fiduciaries, administrators, affiliates, and all successors and assigns of any
of them.”  (Graves Dec., ¶¶4-5, Ex. A, ¶1,
“Claims Covered by this Agreement.”)  Plaintiff
does not dispute that Jack in the Box falls in the category of an affiliate
entity and/or successor as maintained by Defendants.  (Motion, p. 7, fn. 1.)  
            The Arbitration Agreement expressly
states that the FAA governs and applies to it, including its interpretation and
enforcement.  (Graves Dec., ¶¶4-5, Ex. A,
¶6, “Federal Arbitration Act Governs.”)  Plaintiff
does not deny that the FAA applies.  
            The Arbitration Agreement is also a
broad-form agreement that applies to Plaintiff’s claims:  “The claims covered by this Agreement
include, but are not limited to: claims for
breach
of any contract or covenant; tort claims; claims for discrimination or
harassment (including, but not limited to, race, sex, religion, national
origin, age, medical condition, disability or sexual orientation); claims for
retaliation; claims for violation of public policy; claims for unpaid wages; and
claims for violation of any federal, state, local or other law, statute,
regulation or ordinance, including, but not limited to, all claims arising
under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Americans with Disabilities Act,
the California Fair Employment & Housing Act (and other state’s
anti-discrimination laws), the California Labor Code, and/or the Fair Labor
Standards Act.” ((Graves Dec., ¶¶4-5, Ex. A, ¶6, “Claims Covered by this
Agreement.”)
            Defendant therefore establishes the
existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement applicable to Plaintiff’s
claims.  The burden therefore shifts to
Plaintiff to raise a defense to enforcement of the arbitration agreement.  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and the party opposing arbitration bears the
burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability by a preponderance of
the evidence.”  (Mendoza, supra,
75 Cal.App.5th at 776 (trial court properly decided plaintiff’s challenge to
arbitration agreement despite delegation clause where plaintiff attacked
contract formation and very existence of agreement to arbitrate).)
            C.  Based on a preponderance of the evidence, the
EFAA applies to bar enforcement of the arbitration agreement
            Plaintiff does not
deny that she signed the Arbitration Agreement or that her claims do not come
within the scope of the Arbitration Agreement. 
Instead, Plaintiff argues the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable
under the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act
of 2021 (the “EFAA”).  
                        i.  The EFAA[1]
            The FAA
establishes a “liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements,”
requiring courts “rigorously to enforce arbitration agreements according to
their terms.”  (Epic Sys. Corp. v.
Lewis, ––– U.S. ––––, 138 S. Ct. 1612, 1621 (2018) (citation omitted).
“Employment contracts, except for those covering workers engaged in
transportation, are covered by the FAA.” 
(E.E.O.C. v. Waffle House, Inc., 534 U.S. 279, 289 (2018).)
            However, on March 3, 2022, President
Biden signed into law the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021. Pub. L. No. 117-90, 136 Stat. 26 (2022)
(codified at 9 U.S.C. § 402) (hereinafter “the EFAA”).  “The EFAA amends the Federal Arbitration Act
by invalidating any pre-dispute mandatory arbitration clause as it applies to
plaintiffs alleging claims of or related to workplace sexual harassment.”  (Hodgin v. Intensive Care Consortium, Inc.
(March 31, 2023) --- F.Supp.3d ---, 2023 WL 2751443, at *1.)  
            Pursuant to 9 U.S.C. §402(a),
“Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, at the election of the
person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual
assault dispute, or the named representative of a class or in a collective
action alleging such conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute
joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which
is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” 
Subsection 402(b), “[a]n issue as to whether this chapter applies with
respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal law.”
            Pursuant to 9 U.S.C. §401(4) defines
“sexual harassment dispute” as follows: 
“The term ‘sexual harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to
conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal,
Triable or State law.”  Pursuant to 9
U.S.C. §401(3) defines “sexual assault dispute” as a “dispute involving a
nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact, such terms are defined in section
224 of title 18 or similar applicable Tribal or State law, including when the
victim lacks capacity to consent.”  
            In a marginal note to the EFAA, Congress
provided that the provisions of the Ending Forced Arbitration Act would “apply
with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the
date of enactment of this Act [March 3, 2022].” Pub. L. No. 117-90, § 3, 136
Stat 26, 28 (2022).  There is some debate
regarding whether the Act applies to cases that were filed after its enactment regardless
of when the underlying sexual harassment or assault took place. (Murrey v
Supr. Ct. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1235 (“there is some
debate about whether it matters when the underlying sexual harassment or
assault took place”).)   
 
            “The EFAA applies only to claims
that accrued on or after March 3, 2022, the day President Biden signed the EFAA
into law; it does not have retroactive effect…The limited case authority to
date under the EFAA, all from district courts, has solely concerned whether it
applies retroactively and whether the claims at issue in those cases accrued
after March 3, 2022. See, e.g., Marshall v. Hum. Servs. of Se. Texas, Inc.,
No. 21 Civ. 529 (MAC), 2023 WL 1818214, at *3 (E.D. Tex. Feb. 7, 2023) (EFAA
not retroactive; affirming arbitration award related to claims that accrued
before March 3, 2022); Zuluaga v. Altice USA, No. A-2265-21, 2022 WL
17256726, at *5 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. Nov. 29, 2022) (per curiam)
(compelling arbitration of claims that accrued before March 3, 2022); Woodruff
v. Dollar Gen. Corp., No. 21 Civ. 1705 (GBW), 2022 WL 17752359, at *3–4 (D.
Del. Dec. 19, 2022) (same); Steinberg v. Capgemini Am., Inc., No. 22
Civ. 489 (JRS), 2022 WL 3371323, at *2 (E.D. Pa. Aug. 16, 2022) (same); Walters,
2022 WL 3684901, at *3 (same); Newcombe-Dierl, 2022 WL 3012211, at *5;
see also Zinsky, 2022 WL 2906371, at *3–4 (compelling arbitration as to parties
to arbitration agreement, but not as to nonparties); Bushey v. Home Direct
Logistics, LLC, No. UWY-CV-21-6061586 S, 2022 WL 2298419, at *4 n.4 (Conn.
Super. Ct. June 24, 2022) (citing 9 U.S.C. § 402 in passing as example of
recent “chinks in the armor” of national policy favoring arbitration); cf.
Pepe v. N.Y. Life Ins. Co., No. 22 Civ. 4005 (SSV), 2023 WL 1814879, at *4
n.19 (E.D. La. Feb. 7, 2023) (holding EFAA not to apply where complaint's
factual allegations and two references to “harassment” did not describe sexual
harassment).”  (Johnson v. Everyrealm,
Inc. (Feb. 24, 2023) --- F.Supp. ---, 2023 WL 2216173, at *10.)  
            A claim normally “accrues” when the
plaintiff has a “complete and present cause of action.”  (Rotkiske v. Klemm, --- U.S. ---, 140
S. Ct. 355 (2019); Walters v. Starbucks Corp. (2022) 623 F.Supp.3d 333,
337-338.  Whether “dispute” and “claim”
are one and the same under §3 of the EFAA is unsettled.  In Walters, supra, 623 F.Supp.3d at
339, the court found that “dispute” and “claim” were one and the same and the
date they “arose” or “accrued” was the date on which the plaintiff had a
complete and present cause of action.  (Id.
at 338.)  
            The district court in Hodgin v.
Intensive Care Consortium, Inc. (March 31, 2023) --- F. Supp. ---, 2023 WL
2751443 disagreed, finding that “dispute” and “claim” were distinct concepts
and the EFAA applied to cases where the “dispute arose” or the “claim accrued”
after the enactment date.  While the
district court in Hodgin agreed with Walters’ analysis of when a
“claim” “accrued” as the date on which a plaintiff has a “complete and present
cause of action,” the district court also found that the EFAA would apply to a
“dispute” that “arose” on or after the enactment date.  The court reasoned that “a dispute entails a
disagreement, not just existence of an injury (which would be the claim
accruing).  At first blush then, one
might think that is when the lawsuit is filed. 
But ‘dispute’ is a broad term that encompasses other forums…Thus, to say
that a dispute arises only once a lawsuit is filed is far too limiting.”  (Hodgin, supra, 2023 WL
2751443, at *2.)  The Hodgin court
ultimately found that the plaintiff’s “dispute” arose when she filed Charges of
Discrimination against her employer with the EEOC in January 2022, before the
enactment date.  (Id.; see also
Silverman v. DiscGenics, Inc. (March 13, 2023) 2023 WL 2480054, at *2
(plaintiffs’ pretermination claims “arose” when they filed charges of
discrimination with the Utah Antidiscrimination and Labor Division).)  Her claims were therefore outside of the
EFAA.  (Id.)  
            ii.  Pursuant to 9 U.S.C. §402(b), the Court must
determine the applicability of the EFAA, not the arbitrator irrespective of the
delegation clause in the Arbitration Agreement 
             “An issue as to whether this chapter applies
with respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal law. The
applicability of this chapter to an agreement to arbitrate and the validity and
enforceability of an agreement to which this chapter applies shall be
determined by a court, rather than an arbitrator,
irrespective of whether the party resisting arbitration challenges the
arbitration agreement specifically or in conjunction with other terms of the
contract containing such agreement, and irrespective of whether the
agreement purports to delegate such determinations to an arbitrator.”  (9 U.S.C. §402(b).)  
            The Arbitration Agreement contains a
delegation clause:  “The arbitrator shall
have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation,
applicability, enforceability or formation of this Agreement, including but not
limited to any claim that all or any part of this Agreement is void or
voidable.”  (Graves Dec., Ex. A, ¶7,
“Arbitration Procedures.”)  However, 9
U.S.C. §402(b) specifically states that the Court must determine the
applicability of the EFAA the Arbitration Agreement “irrespective of whether
the agreement purports to delegate such determinations to an arbitrator.”  As such, this Court must resolve whether the
EFAA applies here.  
             iii. 
Plaintiff establishes her case “relates to” a “sexual harassment
dispute” and a “sexual abuse dispute” under 9 U.S.C. 402(a) and that at least
some of her claims and disputes arose and accrued after the EFAA was enacted on
March 3, 2022.
            Plaintiff alleges
15 causes of action and the date on which the dispute or claim arose or accrued
varies depending on the cause of action, because the conduct upon which each
claim is based varies.  (Turner v. Tesla
(August 11, 2023) – F.Supp.3d –, 2023 WL 6150805, at *4 (“The reference point
for the accrual of Turner's claims varies based on the cause of action”; where claims
were based on plaintiff’s termination and termination occurred on September 14,
2022, and accrual date was after EFAA went into effect).)  For example, Plaintiff’s 1st and 2nd
causes of action for sexual battery and sexual battery causes of action are
based directly on Defendant Garcia’s physical battery and assault, while
Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action for “failure to prevent harassment
and discrimination” in violation of FEHA against corporate Defendants is based
on corporate Defendants’ and other supervisor Defendants’ failure to respond to
Plaintiff’s complaints about Garcia’s sexual battery and assault.  However, as to all causes of action, they
accrued and arose in full or in part after the EFAA’s enactment
date.  
            Based on the complaint, Plaintiff’s
claims based on Defendants’ failure to respond to her complaints, Defendants’
retaliation against her after she complained and Defendants’ alleged
constructive discharge all arose or accrued after March 8, 2022, the date
Plaintiff alleges she first reported Defendant Garcia’s action to Defendant
Leger.  (Complaint, ¶¶43-53; Opposition,
DOE Dec., ¶¶3, 4 and 6.)  Defendants’
wrongful response to Plaintiff’s complaints of Garcia’s sexual assault and
harassment culminated in her alleged constructive termination in May 10, 2022,
well after the EFAA’s enactment date of March 3, 2022.  (Complaint, ¶53; Motion, DOE Dec., ¶6.)  
            Defendants offer no evidence
challenging Plaintiff’s alleged timeline or her declaration that around March
8, 2022, she complained to other supervisors about Defendant Garcia or that
Defendants retaliated against her from March 8, 2022 through May 10, 2022.  Defendants failure to submit evidence on the
issue is notable, given that they should have a record of when Plaintiff
complained to them about Defendant Garcia’s conduct.  
            As such, the following claims based
entirely on Defendants’ actions or inaction after she complained on March 8,
2022 could only have arisen or accrued after the EFAA was enacted:  the 6th cause of action for
discrimination, the 7th cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment under FEHA, the 9th cause of action for constructive
discharge and the 10th for harassment and aiding and abetting in
violation of FEHA.  These causes of
action are also “sexual harassment disputes” or “sexual abuse disputes,” even
though they are not based directly on Garcia’s sexual battery or assault of
Plaintiff.  Based on the definitions of
“sexual harassment disputes” and “sexual abuse disputes” under 9 U.S.C. §401(3)
and (4), such disputes need only “relate to” conduct that qualifies as sexual
harassment and/or sexual abuse.  
            As such, based on the 6th
cause of action for discrimination, the 7th cause of action for
failure to prevent harassment under FEHA, the 9th cause of action
for constructive discharge and the 10th for harassment and aiding
and abetting in violation of FEHA alone, Plaintiff’s “case” is “a case which is
filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” 
(9 U.S.C. §402(a).)  These claims
or disputes also arose or accrued after enaction of the EFAA on March 3, 2022.
            Any assertion that the EFAA only
applies to specific claims, as opposed to an entire case, is unsupported by the
plain language of the 9 U.S.C. 402(a) and persuasive case authority.  “Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, at the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual
harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute…no predispute arbitration
agreement or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with
respect to a case which…relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.”  (9 U.S.C.
§402(a).)
            Whether the EFAA applies to a sexual
harassment claim only or the entire case was analyzed in Johnson, supra,
2023 WL 2216173, at *15-17.  Under Johnson,
the EFAA makes a pre-dispute arbitration agreement invalid and unenforceable
with respect to the “entire case.”  (Id.)  “This text is clear, unambiguous, and
decisive as to the issue here. It keys the scope of the invalidation of the
arbitration clause to the entire ‘case’ relating to the sexual harassment
dispute. It thus does not limit the invalidation to the claim or claims in
which that dispute plays a part.”  (Id.)  “[T]he Court holds that, where a claim in a
case alleges ‘conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute’ as defined, the
EFAA, at the election of the party making such an allegation, makes pre-dispute
arbitration agreements unenforceable with respect to the entire case relating
to that dispute.”  (Id. at *19.)
            In addition, Johnson reasoned
that Congress intended to “override the FAA’s background principle that, in
cases involving both arbitrable and non-arbitrable claims, the former must be
sent to arbitration even if this will lead to piecemeal litigation,” because
the EFAA amended the FAA directly rather than amending a separate statute, e.g.
Title VII.  (Id. at *18; cf.
Silverman v. DiscGenics, Inc. (Mar. 13, 2023) 2023 WL 2480054, at *3 (court
could not retain jurisdiction over pretermination claims that accrued before
EFAA enactment date based on FAA’s general mandate that an arbitration
agreement must be enforced even if piecemeal resolution is required).)  “In this respect, the EFAA, which applies to
all arbitration agreements covered by the FAA, contrasts with statutory
provisions more selectively invalidating arbitration agreements.”  (Id. at *19.) 
            Even as to those claims that are
based in whole or in part directly on Garcia’s sexual assault and battery,
Plaintiff’s evidence and complaint sufficiently establish that Garcia’s sexual
assault and battery continued through March 7 or 8, 2022.  (Complaint, ¶42; Opposition, DOE Dec., ¶2;
Supplemental DOE Dec. filed January 17, 2024, ¶2.)  Defendants fail to submit any evidence
challenging either Plaintiff’s testimony or her allegations to this
effect.  Even if some of Garcia’s acts predated
the EFAA’s enactment date on March 3, 2022, Plaintiff’s claims are based on
every single one of Garcia’s instances of sexual abuse and assault.  If the Court parsed Plaintiff’s sexual
assault and battery claims as Defendants ask, Plaintiff’s sexual assault and
battery claims based on the March 7 or 8, 2022 sexual assault arose or accrued
on that date.  Plaintiff could have filed
separate causes of action for sexual assault and battery for each instance of
battery and assault but chose to allege them collectively.  
            Thus, based on the 6th
cause of action for discrimination, the 7th cause of action for
failure to prevent harassment under FEHA, the 9th cause of action
for constructive discharge and the 10th for harassment and aiding
and abetting in violation of FEHA alone, Plaintiff establishes that the EFAA Arbitration
Agreement is invalid and unenforceable as to her “case” pursuant the EFAA.  In addition, Plaintiff’s claims based solely
and directly on Garcia’s multiple instances of sexual battery and harassment are
subject to the EFAA, because the last act of sexual assault and harassment
allegedly occurred on March 7 or 8, 2022. 

            Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Action Pending Arbitration is DENIED based on 9 U.S.C.
402(a).               
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action Pending Arbitration is DENIED.  
            Defendants to give notice.


