 Case Number:  22STCV10586    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 3-20-24
Case # 22STCV10568
Trial Date: 5-28-24
 
QUASH/PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, Henghame Abaghi
RESPONDING PARTY: efendant, State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Quash/Protective Order on Deposition Subpoena
for Attorney Jeffrey Nodd
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On February 23, 2021, the home of plaintiff Henghame
Abaghi located at 23910 Stagg St., West Hills, suffered damage as a result of a
“pressurized water supply line located under the concrete slab of a downstairs
bedroom” apparently ruptured. Plaintiff submitted an insurance claim on the
homeowner policy with defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company.
On April 3, 2021, the claim was denied. Plaintiff alleges defendant failed to
adequately investigate the cause of the leak, and therefore improperly denied
coverage under the terms of the policy.
 
On March 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach
of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of Contract. Defendant
answered the complaint on May 13, 2022. On December 20, 2023, the court granted
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate trial into the first phase for liability, and
the second part for the punitive damages claim.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff
Henghame Abaghi moves to quash or alternatively a protective order on the
deposition subpoena seeking the deposition of Plaintiff’s attorney Jeffrey
Nodd. Plaintiff moves on grounds that the deposition improperly seeks work
product and attorney client privileged information. Plaintiff also maintains
the deposition presents an overbroad request, but counsel remains willing to
offer testimony into the “Brandt fees” sought in the instant action. 
 
State Farm in opposition initially challenges the motion on
grounds that Plaintiff never served a written objection to the deposition and
the motion is premature, and Plaintiff can still produce non-privileged
information and object at the deposition. State Farm also challenges the merger
of two remedies—a motion to quash and protective order. State Farm maintains
attorney Nodd became a material witness, due to identification of Nodd in
response to Special Interrogatories numbers 8, 17, and 26 regarding persons
with knowledge of facts regarding the action, thereby compelling an appearance.
State Farm also cites to correspondence by attorney Nodd with State Farm
regarding the underlying claim, and relied upon in opposition to the motion for
summary judgment. Finally, State Farm contends it is entitled to conduct
discovery on the Brandt fees request.
 
Plaintiff in reply denies any procedural defects,
maintains the motion is timely; the motion can be concurrently considered as a
both a protective order and motion to quash; and, challenges any showing of
good cause to take the deposition except as to Brandt fees though qualifies it
with a later argument for alternative means to obtain the information via
written discovery.
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness … the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
… may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).) A Court may make any order that justice requires to
protect a party from “unwanted annoyance, embarrassment or oppression or undue
burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) A deponent
may seek that the deposition is not taken at all, the deposition only taken on
specified terms and conditions, or only certain matters are allowed for
inquiry. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(1)(5)(9).) The
burden of proof is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good
cause” for the order he or she seeks. (Fairmont
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.)  A motion for a protective order
“shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(a).) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) 
 
The motion contains a sufficient meet and confer effort. [Declaration
of Jeffrey Nodd, Ex. B-C.] The motion lacks formal written objection, though
Nodd maintains “objections” were incorporated into the meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.410, subd.
(a-b).) The “objections” lack particular specificity other than a general
argument against the deposition as presented in the subject motion. Neither
part addresses the standard for formal objections, and the court finds denial
of the motion on the basis of such a technicality elevates form over substance.
The court therefore finds the “objections” sufficient. Even if not properly
formatted, however, attorney Nodd only waives any irregularities in the notice.
Nothing in the lack of formal objections precludes consideration of the
protective order or constitutes a waiver of any privileges. 
 
The court also finds the motion is neither improperly
conflated, nor premature. Nodd should not be required to appear at the
deposition and then object, given the standard for attorney depositions. Public
policy discourages attorney depositions due to attorney client and work product
privileged. (Spectra-Physics, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1487, 1494.) “The circumstances
under which opposing counsel may be deposed are limited to those where (1) no
other means exist to obtain the information than to depose opposing counsel;
(2) the information sought is relevant and not privileged; (3) the information
is crucial to the preparation of the case.” (Id. at p. 1496; Estate of
Ruchti (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1593, 1602.) “Each of these prongs poses
an independent hurdle to deposing an adversary's counsel; any one of them may
be sufficient to defeat the attempted attorney deposition.” (Carehouse Convalescent Hospital v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1563.)
 
In bringing the subject motion, the challenging attorney
must first establish the applicability of the attorney client privilege. (Ibid.) “The party
claiming privilege has the burden of
establishing the preliminary fact that the communications
were made during the course of an attorney-client relationship.” (Seahaus La Jolla Owners Association v. Superior Court (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 754, 766.)
 
“The
attorney-client privilege attaches to a confidential communication between the attorney
and the client and bars discovery of the communication irrespective of whether
it includes unprivileged material.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior
Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 734.) The transmission of information
between third parties and counsel also maintain attorney client privilege
protection, if the communication is in further interest of the client. (Evid. Code, § 952.) “Once that party establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie
claim of privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in
confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof
to establish the communication was not confidential or that the privilege does
not for other reasons apply.” (Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court, supra,
47 Cal.4th at p. 733.)
 
The work product privilege applies where the sought after
documents contains Defendant’s “impressions, conclusions, opinions or legal
research or theories,” the information is protected by the work product
doctrine. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030(c).) “An
objecting party may be entitled to protection if it can make a preliminary or
foundational showing that answering the interrogatory would reveal the
attorney's tactics, impressions, or evaluation of the case, or would result in
opposing counsel taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or
efforts”].) (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th
480, 502.) Notes, statements, and impressions of the case are protected
by the work product doctrine. A list of potential witnesses is not work
product. (Coito v. Superior Court (2012)
54 Cal.4th 480, 495; Nacht & Lewis
Architects, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214, 217–218.)
 
Plaintiff sufficiently
establishes of attorney client privilege based on the undisputed existence of Nodd as counsel for Plaintiff in the subject action. The
court also finds the work product privilege objection valid. Nothing in State
Farm’s argument supports a finding that any and all sought-after documents were
generated prior to the anticipation of ligation. The court finds no compelling
basis for the deposition simply based on the responses to three special
interrogatories generally identifying counsel. Specifically, State Farm
presents no showing of the inability to obtain the sought information except
and entirely through the deposition of counsel. The court also already rules on
the motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication, thereby precluding any
basis to compel on this position. With that being said, however, plaintiff’s
counsel did identify himself as having knowledge of the facts, so plaintiff’s
counsel should not be able to object to having his deposition taken and then
subsequently testify in the case as to the facts of the case.
 
The court also
agrees the demand for a general appearance on any and all issues involving
representations constitutes an overly broad area inquiry without a sufficient
basis for such discovery. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224–225.) “When discovery requests are grossly
overbroad on their face, and hence do not appear reasonably related to a
legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can be drawn of an intent to
harass and improperly burden. When a judge evaluates such factors to determine
whether a party has acted reasonably and in good faith in attempting informal
resolution, a factual component of decision, derived from the trial judge's
knowledge of the case, is inevitably involved.” (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel however
agrees to provide information in support of the Brandt fees request, which
constitutes proper subject matter. (Brandt v. Superior Court (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813.) While Plaintiff initially offered to
appear for deposition, Plaintiff in reply now maintains written discovery
responses remain sufficient. The court declines to consider new argument
submitted in the reply regarding the necessity of the deposition on Brandt fees
given the initial offer to appear for deposition. The motion to quash the entire
subpoena is therefore denied. The motion for protective order is granted
limiting inquiry into the basis for Brandt fees. 
 
The parties may elect to begin with written
discovery on Brandt fees in lieu of the deposition. IF the parties
still elect to proceed with the deposition, the parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding a deposition strictly limited to non-privileged Brandt
fees information. The parties may select the time and method, which can include
document production only, and/or testimony. The meet and confer shall occur
within 10 days of the order with any production or deposition completed within
30 days of the order. Excessive objections, intentional questions into
knowingly privileged areas, and/or other reasons leading to the presentation of
a motion to compel further deposition to the court, including an ex parte motion
for special setting, may lead to the setting of an OSC re: Appointment of a
Referee for a Supervised Deposition of Attorney.
 
Trial
remains set for May 28, 2024.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 