  Case Number:  23TRCV00810    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 6, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00810

¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Janell Hendrickson v. Gerardo Castillo, et
al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Attorneys for
Defendant, Tesla, Inc. (erroneously sued as Tesla Motors, Inc.)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Janell Hendrickson, Individually and as
Successor-in-Interest to Steven Michael Hendrickson, and as the Natural Mother
and Legal Guardian of her Minor Children, J.H. and K.H. (No Opposition)   
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       
Not Set.  
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Application
for Clay A. Cossé to appear Counsel Pro Hac Vice 

 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff,
Janell Hendrickson, individually and as successor-in-interest to Steven Michael
Hendrickson, and as the Natural Mother and Legal Guardian of her minor
children, J.H. and K.H.
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Gerardo Castillo, and
individual, M.H. Transport, L.L.C., a domestic limited liability company, Tesla
Motors, Inc., a foreign corporation, and DOES 1 through 50. On May 8, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Strict Product Liability and Wrongful Death; (2) Negligence and
Wrongful Death; (3) Negligence and Wrongful Death; (4) Breach of Warranty and
Wrongful Death; (5) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability and Wrongful
Death; (6) Breach of Express Warranty and Wrongful Death; (7) Intentional
Misrepresentation and Wrongful Death; (8) Common Law Fraudulent Concealment and
Wrongful Death; (9) Negligence and Wrongful Death; (10) Negligence and Wrongful
Death; and (11) Negligent Hiring, Training, Retention & Supervision. 
 
Now, Attorneys for Defendant, Tesla, Inc.
(erroneously sued as Tesla Motors, Inc.) (“Tesla”) files a Motion for Order
Allowing Out-of-State Attorney, Clay A. Cossé, to appear pro hac vice. 
 
 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On September 5, 2024,
Attorneys for Defendant, Tesla, submitted an Application for Clay A. Cossé, to appear pro hac vice. To date, no opposition has been filed.
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
To be
eligible for admission pro hac vice, the applicant must be admitted to
practice before a U.S. court or the highest court of any state or territory,
must not be a California resident, must be associated with a member of the
California bar, must have noticed the California State Bar in San Francisco at
least 21 calendar days before the hearing, and must have paid $50.00 to the
State Bar. Further, pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 the moving
papers must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address; (2) The
courts to which he has been admitted to practice and the dates of such
admission; (3) That the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of the court and cause in which he has filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
the date of such application and whether or not it was granted; and (6) The
name, address and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record.
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
On review
of the moving papers, the Court finds that Attorneys for Tesla have
sufficiently shown that Clay A. Cossé is admitted to practice in good standing before at least one U.S.
Court. (Declaration of Clay A. Cossé (“Cossé Decl.”), ¶ 3.) Tesla’s attorneys have also included the dates of
admission. (Cossé Decl., ¶ 3.) The moving papers indicate that Cossé is associated with an
attorney of record who is a member of the California Bar. (Cossé Decl., ¶ 6; Declaration of Dmitriy
Kopelevich (“Kopelevich Decl.”), ¶ 2.) Further, Cossé has noticed the California
State Bar along with paying the associated $50 State Bar fee. (Kopelevich Decl.,
¶ 3.) Lastly, Cossé has provided both his office address, and resident address. (Cossé Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) Because
Counsel for Tesla have met the requirements, the Court grants the instant
motion. 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
¿ For the foregoing reasons, Attorney for Tesla’s Motion for
Approval of Clay A. Cossé to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED. 
¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.
 
 
 