 Case Number:  22STCV32363    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, February 28, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV32363
CASE NAME:                        Boyle Flats Food & Beverage, Inc., et al. v. Alex
Koons  
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Daleyn Accountancy,
Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Boyle
Flats Food & Beverage, Inc. and Ted Yenawine
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        14 February 2024
REPLY:                                  21
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer to the FAC is
sustained with 10 days leave to amend. A Non-Appearance OSC Re: Amended
Complaint is set for March 22, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendant Daleyn to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This is an action arising
out of the formation by Plaintiff Tad Yenawine (“Yenawine”) and Defendant Alex
Koons (“Koons”) formation of a California entity, Plaintiff Boyle Flats Food
and Beverage, Inc dba Purgatory Pizza (“BFFB”). Plaintiffs and Defendant
operated a restaurant business thus called “Purgatory Pizza.” The Complaint
alleges Defendant took monies from Plaintiff BFFB’s bank accounts for expenses
to open his own pizza restaurant in 2020. The Complaint alleges Defendant
applied for and received an Emergency Incident Disaster Loan (“EIDL”) in BFFB’s
name which was transferred to Defendant’s own account and he made no payments for
the EIDL afterwards. The Complaint also alleges Defendant abandoned his duties
as manager of Purgatory Pizza and continued to pay himself his
salary.  
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint
alleges four causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) conversion; (3)
fraud; and (4) breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
On November 29, 2022,
Defendant Koons filed a Cross-Complaint (“CC”) against the Plaintiffs. On
February 09, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the CC with leave to
amend. On April 24, 2023, the Defendant filed an Amended Cross-Complaint but
withdrew it on May 17, 2023, and was granted leave to file an amended
complaint. 
 
The Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) alleges four causes of
action: (1) dissolution of corporation; (2) derivative claim for breach of
fiduciary duty; (3) individual claim for breach of fiduciary duty against Cross-Defendant Yenawine; and (4) reimbursement of
business expenses. 
 
On
October 9, 2023, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first, second,
and third causes of action was overruled and sustained as to the fourth cause
of action with leave to amend. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants motion to strike was
granted as to Paragraph 9, with leave to amend. 
 
On
October 23, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed the operative Third Amended
Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) alleging the same cause of action as the SACC. 
 
On
October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) conversion, (3)
fraud, and (4) breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
On
December 20, 2023, Defendant Daleyn Accountancy, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Daleyn”)
filed a demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
A
court may take judicial notice of the contents of its own records. (Dwan v.
Dixon (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265; Foster v. Gray (1962) 203
Cal.App.2d 434, 439.) “Courts may not take judicial notice of allegations
in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records because such
matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require formal proof.”
(Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882.) 
 
Defendant
Daleyn seeks judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Exhibit A — Tad Yenawine’s Declaration
Submitted on Behalf of Plaintiffs in Support of their Opposition to Defendant
Koons Reply to Motion to Disqualify Counsel. 
 
2)    
Exhibit B, Document 1 — BFFB’s
Corporate Bylaws as filed by Defendant Koons in his April 6, 2023, Declaration
and on July 17, 2023, by Plaintiff’s BFFB and Yenawine. 
 
The
court denies Defendant Daleyn’s request for judicial notice of Exhibit A
because it is disputed as to whether Yenawine validly removed Koons as a
corporate officer, a fact Koons disputes and is at the heart of this very
action. As the facts in the Yenawine declaration are reasonably subject to
dispute, the court denies the request for judicial notice as to Exhibit A. 
Defendant
Daleyn points out that the court granted judicial notice of BFFB’s bylaws at
the October 9, 2023, hearing. As BFFB’s bylaws are not in dispute, the court
grants judicial notice of Exhibit B. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Standing
to Pursue Litigation
 
Defendant Daleyn demurs to the entire
FAC on the basis that when a corporation is deadlocked between
shareholders/directors, the corporation has no standing to pursue litigation if
the bylaws do not give the director/shareholder the authority to unilaterally
pursue litigation but instead reserves such corporate power for the directors.
(Anmaco, Inc. v. Bohlken (1993) 13 Cal. App. 4th 891, 898 (Anmaco).)
 
In
Anmaco, the appellate court found because a corporate president has no
greater power than any other director, the president had no power to initiate a
lawsuit in the name of the corporation against a co-director and equal
shareholder.(Anmaco, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at p. 900.) 
 
Pressing the corporation into litigation as a plaintiff is
inappropriate where the other shareholder-director could claim equal authority
to bring suit in the corporate name. This is particularly obvious in the instant case
where Bohlken is not only an equal director and shareholder, but is also Chief
Executive Officer of the company. The proper
vehicle for such a suit, when the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the
corporation, is a shareholders' derivative action.
(Id. at p. 900.) 
 
Specifically, the Anmaco court  found that under  the corporate bylaws, although the Anmaco
president had “ ‘general supervision, direct and control of the business and
officers of the corporation’ ” “[t]he bylaws also provide
that the president's exercise of his office is ‘subject to the control of the
Board of Directors....’” and “[t]he bylaws further state: ‘The business
and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall
be exercised by or under the direction of its Board of Directors.”
(Anmaco, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at p. 898.) Therefore, “[t]he
president does not have the power to enter into contracts or execute other
instruments or render the corporation ‘liable for any purposes or any amount’
without Board authorization” including the “power to institute
litigation in the corporate name against the other 50 percent shareholder.” (Id.
at p. 898.)
 
The
Anmaco court expressed “no view on the president's power to institute or
defend litigation in an emergency or involving an outsider or where the bylaws
may grant the power to do so.” (Anmaco, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at
900, fn. 2.) However, other courts have taken the approach that if a president
lacks power to instigate ligation, the corporation itself lacks the power to
litigate, even against third parties who are not directors or shareholders of
the corporation. 
 
In
Icon Internet Media, Inc. v. Johnson (C.D. Cal., Oct.
22, 2021, No. 819CV01579FLADFMX), the district court found the following: 
 
The court, however, does not read the California precedent so
narrowly to forbid a president from filing a suit in the name of the
corporation against its directors and shareholders, but permit the suit to
proceed against non-directors and shareholders. Instead, it appears the relevant inquiry is
whether the president has authority to initiate any suit on behalf
of the corporation when the directors are deadlocked.
 
(Id. at p. *4 [underline
original].) The federal district court in Icon Internet Media, Inc. held that the plaintiff could not maintain an action against the
other defendants despite the other defendants not being co-directors or
fifty percent shareholders because the president lacked apparent authority to
file suit. (Ibid.) The federal district court granted the motion for
judgment on the pleadings and gave the plaintiff 30 days’ leave to amend so
that plaintiff could substitute in and assert claims on behalf of a
proper plaintiff.
 
Similarly, in Verma v.
Okev (E.D. Cal., Dec. 31, 2013, No. 2:13-CV-00865-MCE) 2013 WL
6887532, the federal district court stated: 
 
[B]ecause
there is no mention in the Complaint, motions or briefs as to what the
corporate by-laws say on the matter of presidential duties and powers. Since
the bylaws will ultimately govern, some mention must be made of them before
relying on some sort of inherent power that may or may not have been trumped by
the corporation's formative documents. [Citations.]  Therefore, to the extent Plaintiff Zentek
depends on the president's power to bring this suit, the Complaint is dismissed
with leave to amend.
(Id. at p. *7.)


Accordingly, under the broader interpretation
of Anmaco, Plaintiffs lack standing to bring this lawsuit unless they
obtained permission from the board of directors to initiate this action. 
 
The Complaint alleges that Yenawine is a 50%
holder of Boyle Flats Food & Beverage, Inc. (“BFFB”) and has standing to
bring this action under Corp. Code section 316(c). (FAC ¶¶ 1, 2.) 
 
Corp. Code § 316 states in the relevant part: 
 
a) Subject
to the provisions of Section 309, directors of a corporation who approve any of
the following corporate actions shall be jointly and severally liable to the
corporation for the benefit of all of the creditors or shareholders entitled to
institute an action under subdivision (c):
 
(1) The
making of any distribution to its shareholders to the extent that it is
contrary to the provisions of Sections 500 to 503, inclusive.
(2) The
distribution of assets to shareholders after institution of dissolution
proceedings of the corporation, without paying or adequately providing for all
known liabilities of the corporation, excluding any claims not filed by
creditors within the time limit set by the court in a notice given to creditors
under Chapters 18 (commencing with Section 1800), 19 (commencing with Section
1900) and 20 (commencing with Section 2000).
(3) The
making of any loan or guaranty contrary to Section 315.
 
(b) A
director who is present at a meeting of the board, or any committee thereof, at
which action specified in subdivision (a) is taken and who abstains from voting
shall be considered to have approved the action
 
(c) Suit may be brought in the name
of the corporation to enforce the liability (1) under paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) against any or all directors liable by the persons entitled to
sue under subdivision (b) of Section 506, (2) under paragraph (2) or (3) of
subdivision (a) against any or all directors liable by any one or more
creditors of the corporation whose debts or claims arose prior to the time of
any of the corporate actions specified in paragraph (2) or (3) of subdivision
(a) and who have not consented to the corporate action, whether or not they
have reduced their claims to judgment, or (3) under paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a) against any or all directors liable by any one or more holders
of shares outstanding at the time of any corporate action specified in
paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) who have not consented to the corporate
action, without regard to the provisions of Section 800.
 
The language above provides that a suit
under section 316 requires the “directors of the corporation” to “approve any
of the following corporate actions[.]” (Corp. Code, § 316(a).) There is no
language in the FAC reflecting that Yenawine had the authority to initiate this
action. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
because Defendant/Cross-Complainant Koons as secretary, treasurer, and general
manager of BFFB had looted the corporation, under Corp. Code § 310(a) and (b),
a director is not permitted to vote on matters that implicate a director’s
material financial interest. 
Accordingly, only Director/Plaintiff Yenawine’s vote was needed. The
court need not decide if Plaintiff Yenawine had the authority to bring this
action under Corp. Code § 310 because the FAC is devoid of any such allegation
and there are no facts to indicate that Plaintiff Yenawine was permitted to
vote and retain an attorney and bring this action without the approval of
Co-Director/Defendant Koons. Facts not alleged in the FACC are presumed not to
exist. (Schick v. Lerner (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1321, 1327.) 
 
The
court also notes that in the hearing to disqualify Plaintiffs’ counsel, Yenawine
argued that “under Corporation Code § 307, Yenawine had the authority to
constitute a quorum in hiring Hall ‘as the sole remaining director authorized
to act to protect  BFFB’s interests’
after Koons’ alleged taking of BFFB funds. (Opp., 6.)” (Order of 04/24/23.) 
 
Thus,
Plaintiffs have articulated three possible bases that grant Yenawine authority
to initiate this lawsuit under Corp. Code §§ 307, 310(a) and (b), and 316(c).
However, the FAC is devoid of any facts that would permit the court to find
that Yenawine has alleged sufficient facts to permit the finding that he had
the authority to bring this action, including against a non-director and
non-shareholder party like Defendant Daleyn. More importantly, Plaintiffs did
not cite what bylaws permitted Yenawine to remove Koons as a director due to the
suspicion that Koons had looted or misappropriated BFFB’s assets and allowed Yenawine
to act as a sole director and owner of BFFB and bring this action against
Defendants. 
 
As
the FAC is devoid of facts to show standing, Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer to the
entire FAC is granted with leave to amend. The court now addresses Daleyn’s
demurrer to the three specific causes of action alleged against it.[2]
 
B.        Breach of Contract 
 
The
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: "(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff." (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821.) In addition, the
complaint must demonstrate damages proximately caused by the breach. (St.
Paul Ins. v. American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.)
Furthermore, “the complaint must [also] indicate on its face whether the
contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452. at 458-59 citing CCP, §
430.10(g).) “If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Id.
at p. 459 [internal citations omitted].)
Defendant
Daleyn demurs to the breach of contract cause of action on the basis that
Plaintiff fails to articulate what contract Daleyn breached. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs allege that discovery has produced
written contracts between Daleyn and BFFB. The FAC fails to state the specific
provisions of these contracts breached by Daleyn.  Moreover, there are no allegations that
Daleyn had contracts with Yenawine. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the breach of contract claim is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            C.        Conversion
 
To
plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s
ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s
disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3)
resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.(2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Money may be the subject of conversion if the
claim involves a specific, identifiable sum . . . .” (WelcoElectronics, Inc.
v. Mora(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 209.) 
 
Defendant
Daleyn demurs to the conversion cause of action on the basis that Plaintiff
fails to allege a fixed sum. Plaintiff does not dispute that no specific sum is
alleged and instead asserts that Plaintiffs can amend the Complaint to allege
the most current amount discovered to have been converted. 
 
The
demurrer to the cause of action for conversion is granted with leave to amend. 
 
            D.        Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
 
"The elements of
a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Meister
v. Mensinger (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 381, 395.) A fiduciary relationship is
“any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the
parties is duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the
other party.” (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.)
“Such a relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person
in the integrity of another.” (Ibid.) “[B]efore a person can be charged
with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on
behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which
imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.” (Ibid.)   
 
Defendant
Daleyn demurs to the breach of fiduciary duty cause of action on the basis that
Plaintiff fails to allege that Daleyn owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that the breach of
fiduciary duty cause of action is sufficiently pled because Plaintiff alleges
Daleyn through its contracts with BFFB and by exercising access to BFFB’s
private financial information, including tax information, used such information
to convince Yenawine to grantee leases, approve loans and documents that were
contrary to BFFB’s and Yenawine’s interests. (FAC ¶¶ 14-15, 18, 42.) 
 
Plaintiffs must show what specific
provisions of the contract between BFFB and Daleyn show that Daleyn understood
and accepted to act as a financial fiduciary to Plaintiff BFFB and Yenawine.
(See City of Hope National Medical Center v. Genentech, Inc. (2008)
43 Cal.4th 375, 386 [“These contractual provisions
indicate that the parties's common goal was to achieve a mutually beneficial
arrangement, not that Genentech had undertaken a fiduciary obligation ‘to act
on behalf of and for the benefit of another.’”].) The conclusory
allegation that Daleyn “undertook fiduciary duties to BFFB to protect and not
misuse its information” is conclusory and insufficient to support a claim for
breach of fiduciary duty. (FAC ¶ 14.) 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the breach of
fiduciary duty cause of action is granted with leave to amend.           
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer to the FAC is
sustained with 10 days leave to amend. A Non-
Appearance OSC Re: Amended Complaint is
set for March 22, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendant 
Daleyn to give notice. 
 


