 Case Number:  22SMCV00454    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint
following the court’s order granting defendant Elliman’s motion for summary
judgment.  The motion to amend is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs claim to be the victims of a fraudulent
scheme.  The alleged scheme was known as
the “Buy, Build, and Sell” (BBS) program. 
Defendant Moore was a real estate agent who worked with Telles, which
was later acquired by Elliman.  He was
also a licensed contractor.  According to
the complaint as it reads now, Moore convinced plaintiffs to utilize the BBS
program to buy a piece of property, use Moore to renovate it, and then sell it
for a large profit.  Telles (and later
Elliman for purposes of the sale) was to be the real estate broker for purposes
of the purchase and sale of the property, with Moore being the real estate
agent.  Moore was to be the contractor
through an entity he owned, but in which neither Telles nor Elliman had any
ownership interest, SCCCD.  According to
plaintiffs, the construction took too long, went way over budget, and was rife
with false billings and charges.  However,
plaintiffs allege no problems with either the purchase of the property or the
sale of the property.
 
Elliman brought a motion for summary judgment.  The theory was that they it was not
responsible for Moore’s alleged misconduct. 
Rather, Elliman argued, it was merely a real estate brokerage firm, and
while it did have responsibility for the buy and sell, it had nothing to do
with the construction.  Elliman noted
that the various contracts pertaining to the construction were contracts to which
it was not a party.  Elliman noted that
nothing in any of those contracts gave it any duties or responsibilities or
purported to do so.  Elliman conceded
that it was aware of the program and that Moore worked out of Elliman’s office,
but it argued that such was not enough for it to be liable for any breach
relating to the construction agreement or any tort associated therewith.  The court agreed and granted the motion for
summary judgment.  Plaintiffs then
brought a motion for reconsideration, but that motion was withdrawn after
Elliman threatened plaintiffs with a motion for sanctions.  Instead, plaintiffs brought the instant
motion for leave to amend.  Elliman
opposes and seeks entry of judgment.  The
court notes that other defendants are unaffected by the summary judgment
motion.
 
The gist of the amendment is to allege a joint venture
arrangement between Moore (and his entities) and Elliman, from which plaintiff
can argue that each joint venturer is liable for the acts of the venture and
all other venturers.  Plaintiffs assert
that leave to amend should be liberally granted and that the trial has been
re-set, so the June 24 trial date is no longer a consideration.  Elliman opposes, arguing that this sort of
goalpost-moving is not proper and will be prejudicial in that Elliman has already
taken discovery and moved (successfully) for a full summary judgment; Elliman
asserts it is, and ought to be, out of the case.  Elliman also argues that the amendment would
be futile because there is no joint venture.
 
Plaintiffs assert that while there used to be authority that
it was improper to seek to amend after summary judgment was granted even if
judgment had not been entered, the case so suggesting has been discredited and
the law is now different.  Plaintiffs
assert that liberal amendments are still the order of the day until judgment
has actually been entered.  Plaintiffs,
however, do not actually cite to a case with this fact pattern.  Rather, the cases discussing the point tend
to be cases where a summary judgment motion is granted essentially on the
pleadings rather than on evidence.  In
that case, appellate authority suggests that the court can to treat the motion
as a motion for judgment on the pleadings and permit an amendment—even after
the motion is decided—to allow the pleading problem to be rectified.  (Prue v. Brady Co./San Diego, Inc.
(2015) 242, Cal.App.4th 1367.)  The court
notes that such is not the situation here. 
This was an evidentiary motion, in which Elliman prevailed not just on
the pleadings  but rather by making a
showing that undisputed evidence required judgment in Elliman’s favor.
 
The court believes that the policies underlying motions for
judgment on the pleadings and summary judgment are different.  A motion for judgment on the pleadings is,
for all practical purposes, a demurrer by another name.  The law is well settled that if a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend should be granted unless it is plain that no
amendment can be made or plaintiff has had a number of chances to amend but has
failed to do so in a way that cures the infirmity.  Because a motion for judgment on the pleadings
is like a demurrer, the same policies that animate that sort of ruling
apply.  True, motions for judgment on the
pleadings are often brought much closer to trial, but that is dealt with by
looking to prejudice, and the trial date is a relevant factor in that
analysis.  Critical to the analysis,
though, is that the problem is not one of proof but only of pleading, and
California policy suggests that leave ought to be granted liberally to cure
mere pleading defects.  Summary judgment
is different.  Summary judgment is a
“speaking” motion; it is based on evidence, not allegations.  Parties have engaged in discovery that have
been informed by the pleadings in the case in order to marshal the evidence
needed to show that there is no triable issue of material fact (or that there
is such an issue).  New theories espoused
after the motion can render the prior discovery ill-taken or inadequate,
meaning that a second motion will need to be granted.  That is not to say that a motion to amend can
never be granted, but it is to say that the policies do not favor such an
amendment to the same degree as a mere pleading motion.  Similarly, the party opposing summary
judgment has a full 61 days to oppose the motion, and more if taking discovery
is required.  Having seen the motion and
having had a full chance to analyze it, one would expect that if the pleadings
need to be amended, it should be done before the court works up the motion and
before the hearing.  Plaintiffs here did
no such a thing.  They waited until after
the motion was granted to raise their entirely new theory of the case.  Their only explanation for this delay is that
they did not think of the theory until they consulted with new counsel.  The court notes that an inordinate delay in
bringing a motion to amend is grounds to deny it, even in the absence of
prejudice, and the court finds the explanation here inadequate.  (Leader v. Health Industries of America,
Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603.)  The
court notes that it does not consider plaintiffs’ counsel incompetent.  Rather, the more likely reason for failure to
allege a joint venture is that there simply was no joint venture, not because
counsel just had not thought of that critical theory, even after summary judgment
papers were filed.  In short, the court
finds no justification for the delay in seeking to amend, nor does the court
believe that leave to amend is quite as liberally granted where a summary
judgment motion is granted based on the evidence and not the pleadings
(although even were the test the same, the court’s ruling would still be to
deny).
 
The court also does not believe that such an amendment would
survive demurrer.  True, plaintiffs
contend that demurrer is the better place to raise the problem, and the court
understands the point.  But where leave
to amend would be futile, the law is settled that the futility is good cause to
deny the motion.  A joint venture
relationship is akin to a general partnership. 
It need not be accompanied by formal documents or a written agreement;
in fact, it can be completely informal. 
But there are certain minimums. 
The joint venturers must share control of the venture (even if they
delegate that control) and they must share in the profits.  In other words, they have to form an enterprise—even
if not a jural one—in which the joint venturers all participate with a common
goal and purpose and share a degree of control and a portion of the
profits.  That is just not the case here,
even as alleged, at least in light of the facts established in the motion.  Neither Telles nor Elliman had any degree of
control in the BBS “venture.”  That is
because neither had any degree of control over the “build” part.  Elliman had no ability to comment on the
construction agreement; it had no ability to change the terms, dictate the
price, or do anything else regarding the construction.  Elliman did not have a contractor’s
license.  Elliman did not discuss the
plans or engage in any construction activity or sign contracts with any
subcontractors.  Elliman did not share in
the profits generated from the contracting activity.  And while it is true that the construction
documents referred to the listing agreements (or prospective listing
agreements), Elliman was still not a party to the construction contracts.  In short, at least given the court’s
understanding of the joint venture theory read in context of the actual facts
as shown at summary judgment, amendment would be futile.  This also points up the difference between
summary judgment and judgment on the pleadings. 
In the former, the court is informed by the facts as established; the
court need not accept as true anything that is inconsistent with the undisputed
facts as established in the motion; the court will not “presume” that a
plaintiff can prove the truth of something that was disproved at summary
judgment.  That is why leave to amend is
different.  If there are no pesky facts
of which the court need be concerned, amendments make more sense than if the
court has to start juxtaposing the facts as established by way of the motion
and the amended complaint and new theory of the case.
 
For all of the foregoing reasons, the motion for leave to
amend is DENIED.  The court will
therefore sign the proposed judgment.