 Case Number:  21SMCV01421    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to set aside the default is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff filed a breach of contract action against
defendants.  Default was entered on
October 19, 2021 and judgment was entered on December 17, 2021.  The motion to set aside the default was made
on April 4, 2024.  Defendants’
evidentiary objections are OVERRULED. 
The emails are properly authenticated by counsel who can do so as part
of the case file.  Further, defendants’
counsel Multani was defendants’ attorney at the time of the emails, and thus
his authorized statements are statements of a party opponent and subject to an
exception to the hearsay rule.
 
Defendants argue that service was not proper because it was
made on a person that they do not recognize, thereby (they argue) rendering the
service improper and the judgment void. 
A void judgment can be attacked at any time; there is no time
limit.  However, not all judgments where
service was improper are void.  Rather, a
judgment is only void where the invalidity is apparent from the judgment roll
alone.  (Dill v. Berquist Construction
Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426.) 
That means that a review of the judgment roll, without any additional
evidence, reveals the deficiency.  (Kremerman
v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358.) 
)That is not so harsh a rule as might first appear.  Where the infirmity is apparent only by
considering other evidence, the judgment may still be set aside on a proper and
timely showing.)  The judgment roll
consists of the summons, the proof of service, the complaint, the request for
entry of default, and the judgment.  So,
for example, if the proof of service shows that the summons was served only by
mail on a California resident, that would be improper on its face and the
judgment would be void.  Similarly, if
the complaint set forth no dollar amount but the judgment was for, say, $1
million (and there were no statement of damages filed), that would be improper
on its face and therefore void.
 
Here, defendants contend that service was improper.  The proof of service shows service by
substituted service followed up by mail. 
That is proper on its face. 
Defendants assert that the substituted service was not proper because
the person on whom service was actually made is not known to them or was not
authorized to accept service of process. 
Maybe so, but that is not apparent from the judgment roll; it is only
apparent upon consideration of the declaration. 
Therefore, the judgment is not void; it is merely voidable.
 
Accordingly, this motion is more properly brought pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5, which allows a judgment valid on its
face to be voided where there is no actual notice.  However, that statute has a time limit and if
the motion is not filed within that time then the statute affords no
relief.  (Trackman v. Kenney
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175.)  The motion
here is untimely, having been brought more than two years after entry of the
default judgment.  There are also
technical defects, such as the failure to attach a draft answer, but the court
could likely get through the non-lodging of the answer if the motion was
otherwise proper.
 
Of the most concern is the fact that plaintiff establishes
that defendants were aware of this problem in July 2022.  There is an email exchange showing that
defendants were aware of the default judgment and a statement that defendants
would shortly file a motion to vacate. 
Notwithstanding that actual knowledge and the promise to file a motion
quickly, the actual motion was not filed until 21 months after the email
acknowledging the problem.  That fact,
which defendants neglected to mention in their moving papers, is fatal to this
motion.
 
Because the judgment is not void, and because the time to
bring a motion to vacate a voidable judgment has expired, and because
defendants had actual knowledge of the judgment but did nothing for 21 months,
the motion is DENIED.