 Case Number:  24STCV00859    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 23, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Wilton Holdings & Management LLC v.
8210 Sunset, LLC et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV00859            
 
(1)  
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
(2)  
ORDER
TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Non-Party Herbalcure Corporation; (2) Plaintiff
Wilton Holdings & Management LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiff
Wilton Holdings & Management LLC; (2) Defendant 8210 Sunset, LLC
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract and wrongful eviction action that was filed
on January 12, 2024. Plaintiff alleges it subleased a commercial property from
Defendants in order to operate a cannabis business. The property allegedly had
serious structural and habitability defects which Defendants neither disclosed
nor remedied. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants subsequently locked
Plaintiffs out of the property without formally terminating the lease
agreement.
 
Herbalcure Corporation moves to
intervene to assert claims against both Plaintiff and Defendants as the
subsequent sublessor of the property. The Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order on January 18, 2024, and now
rules on an Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Herbalcure Corporation’s Motion for
Leave to Intervene is GRANTED. Herbalcure is ordered to file a clean stand-alone
copy of the Complaint-in-Intervention within 5 days
of this order. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction is CONTINUED to March 21, 2023. Plaintiff is ordered to re-file its
moving papers and serve them on Herbalcure Corporation no later than Tuesday,
February 27, 2024. Herbalcure and Plaintiff may serve and file a supplemental
opposition and reply brief per code. No further briefing will be permitted. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Leave to Intervene
 
Herbalcure Corporation moves to
intervene to assert claims against both Plaintiff and Defendants as a
subsequent sublessor of the subject property. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Intervention
as of right is permitted when “[t]he person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that
person's interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387 (d)(1)(B).) Whether the petitioner has an
interest in the matter in litigation is a question of fact that must be
determined by the court before leave to file is granted.  (Muller v. Robinson
(1959) 174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515; In re Yokohama Special Bank (1948)
86 Cal.App.2d 545.) The burden rests on the one seeking to intervene to show
that this is a proper case for intervention. (Id. at
515.)   
 
Analysis
 
            Herbalcure,
as proposed intervenor, claims that it entered into a series of month-to-month
sublease agreements for the subject property to operate a cannabis business at
the premises commencing in October 2023. (Declaration of Peter Tejera ISO Mot.
¶ 3.) Herbalcure also claims that Plaintiff, through its owners and agents, threatened
violence against Herbalcure’s personnel to force them off the subject premises.
(Tejera Decl. ¶¶ 7-10.) Proposed Intervenor has produced the relevant sublease
agreements, which describe Herbalcure as the subtenant and an individual named
“David Kermani” as the sublessor. (Tejera Decl. Exhs. B, C.) Plaintiff argues
in opposition that the moving papers do not establish what connection David
Kermani has with the subject premises, besides a relation to Elan Kermani that
might be inferred from the shared surname. Plaintiff thus claims that
Herbalcure has not established standing to intervene because it has not shown a
valid interest in the subject property via a lease agreement with an agent of
the owner or lessor. The Court observes, however, that Defendants’ opposition
to the Motion for Preliminary Injunction expressly concedes that David Kermani
is a member of Defendant 8210 Sunset, LLC. (See Declaration of Elan Kermani ISO
Opp. Prelim. Inj. ¶ 8.) 
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that Herbalcure has not shown that the month-to-month leases were
renewed after January 31, 2024. This contention is not well-taken, since Herbalcure’s
proposed Complaint-in-Intervention concerns conduct which allegedly occurred in
that same month, including the wrongful eviction alleged against Defendants.
Plaintiff’s assertion that Herbalcure’s claims are divorced from Plaintiff’s
claims is belied by a plain reading of the proposed pleading, which alleges
that Defendants subleased a property where the previous tenant’s right to
possession was in dispute, and that Herbalcure has been improperly removed from
the premises because of the Court’s order. (See Motion Exh. A. ¶¶ 74-86.) 
 
            The Court
is thus persuaded that Herbalcure has demonstrated an interest in the property
that is the subject of the action and must be permitted to assert its claims in
intervention to protect that interest.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Herbalcure Corporation’s Motion for Leave to Intervene is GRANTED.  Herbalcure is ordered to file a clean stand-alone
copy of the Complaint-in-Intervention within 5 days of this order. 
 
OSC Re: Preliminary Injunction
 
            On January
18, 2024, Plaintiff applied ex parte for a temporary restraining order
enjoining Defendants from denying Plaintiff access to the subject property,
interfering with Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment and use of the premises, or
changing locks or otherwise obstructing access to the premises. The Court granted
the application pending a hearing on a preliminary injunction, and issued an
order to show cause why Defendants should not be so enjoined pending resolution
of this action. (January 19, 2024 Order to Show Cause.) The Court set a
briefing schedule for initial moving papers, which were to be filed on January
25, 2024, with opposition and reply papers to be served and filed per code. (Id.)

 
            Although it
appears from Defendants’ opposition papers that the motion was received by
Defendants, Plaintiff’s moving papers were never filed with the Court. More
critically, the factual nucleus of Herbalcure Corporation’s Complaint-in-Intervention
arises from issuance of the Court’s Temporary Restraining Order. Thus, the
interests of justice require that Herbalcure be presented with an opportunity
to assert any arguments that are relevant to the question of a preliminary
injunction. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is CONTINUED to March 21, 2023. Plaintiff
is ordered to re-file its moving papers and serve them on Herbalcure
Corporation no later than Tuesday, February 27, 2024.  Herbalcure and Plaintiff may serve and file a
supplemental opposition and reply brief per code. No further briefing will be
permitted. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Herbalcure
Corporation’s Motion for Leave to Intervene is GRANTED. Herbalcure is ordered
to file a clean stand-alone copy of the Complaint-in-Intervention within 5 days
of this order. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction is CONTINUED to March 21, 2023. Plaintiff is ordered to re-file its
moving papers and serve them on Herbalcure Corporation no later than Tuesday,
February 27, 2024. Herbalcure and Plaintiff may serve and file a supplemental
opposition and reply brief per code. No further briefing will be permitted. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 23,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 