 Case Number:  23STCV15517    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 23, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
September 17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Stewart Marroquin v. CS Hotel LLC et al.

 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV15517            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH THIRD PARTY DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR BUSINESS RECORDS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Stewart Marroquin in pro per. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants CS
Hotel LLC and Percy Cifuentes
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on July 5,
2023. Plaintiff alleges that he was harassed on the basis of a physical
disability, and that Defendants refused to provide him with reasonable
accommodations for his condition before wrongly terminating him on the basis of
his disability. 
 
Plaintiff moves to quash a
deposition subpoena for business records propounded to his former employer, Los
Angeles Conservation Corps, Inc., or, in the alternative, for a protective
order limiting the scope of the subpoena.
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Third Party Deposition Subpoena
for Business Records is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Specifically, the Court grants the motion to
quash as to document categories 2, 8 (as to disciplinary records), and 9, and
limits the temporal scope of production with respect to document categories 1,
4, 5, 7, 8 (as to performance reviews) and 11, based solely on Plaintiff’s
relevance and overbreadth objections, and otherwise denies the motion.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to quash a
deposition subpoena for business records propounded to his former employer, Los
Angeles Conservation Corps, Inc., or, in the alternative, for a protective
order limiting the scope of the subpoena.
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 provides:
 
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).) There is
no meet and confer requirement in section 1987.1. There is also no requirement
for a separate statement when no response has been provided to the request
for discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(b)(1).) Furthermore, there is
no requirement for a showing of good cause for production of documents in
connection with a deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.510(b); Terry
v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 358.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash a subpoena propounded to a former employer, Los Angeles
Conservation Corps, Inc. Defendants served the subpoena on December
7, 2023. (Declaration of Stewart Marroquin ISO Mot. Exh. 2.) Attachment 3 to
the Subpoena sets forth the documents sought from January 1, 2008 to the
present relating to Plaintiff as follows:
 
1.     
All applications of employment submitted to LOS ANGELES
CONSERVATION CORPS, INC. (hereinafter "YOU") by STEWART MARROQUIN; 
 
2.     
Any employee handbook(s) YOU provided to STEWART
MARROQUIN; 
 
3.     
Any termination or separation letter YOU provided to
STEWART MARROQUIN or notice of voluntary resignation from STEWART MARROQUIN to
YOU; 
 
4.     
The job description for any positions STEWART MARROQUIN
held while he was employed by YOU; 
 
5.     
Documents sufficient to reflect STEWART MARROQUIN's
date of hire and date of termination; 
 
6.     
All work restrictions, doctor's notes, and requests for
accommodations STEWART MARROQUIN required during his employment with YOU; 
 
7.     
STEWART MARROQUIN's payroll records reflecting his
rate(s) of pay and compensation; 
 
8.     
STEWART MARROQUIN's performance reviews and
disciplinary actions; 
 
9.     
All complaints of discrimination, harassment, and/or
retaliation made to YOU by STEWART MARROQUIN; 
 
10.  Documents
sufficient to reflect all work-related injuries sustained by STEWART MARROQUIN
including, but not limited to worker's compensation claims; and 
 
11.  All
W-2s and/or 1099s issued by YOU to STEWART MARROQUIN.
 
 (Id. Exh. 2 Attach. 3.) Plaintiff
contends that this documents subpoena is overbroad, seeks documents that are
irrelevant and/or are protected from disclosure, is unduly burdensome, invades
Plaintiff’s privacy, and seeks documents which would not be admissible at
trial. Based on these arguments, Plaintiff asks that the Court limit the
disclosure of documents to categories 6 and 10, pertaining to work
restrictions, doctor’s notes, requests for accommodations, work-related
injuries and worker’s compensation claims. 

 
            At
the outset, as to Plaintiff’s contentions that certain evidence sought would
not be admissible at trial, such an argument is insufficient to demonstrate
that the materials sought are not discoverable. Evidence may be discoverable if
it is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, whether or not it
is, itself, admissible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
In ruling on a privacy objection in the
context of discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552.) The party asserting a privacy right must also establish an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances. (Id.)
Further, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a threatened
intrusion that is serious. (Id.) The Court need not proceed to the
fourth step of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not
satisfied. (Id. at 555.) 
 
If the Court reaches the fourth step, the
Court must balance these competing considerations: The party seeking
information may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure may serve. (Id. at 552.) The party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
need” simply because discovery of any facially private information is sought. (Id.
at 556-557.) When a privacy interest is asserted, the party seeking production
must show that the information sought is directly relevant to a cause of action
or a defense. (Harris v. Superior Court (Smets) (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
661, 665, citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859-62.)
 
            With
respect to Plaintiff’s privacy objections, Plaintiff contends that he has a
legally protected interest in his personnel records, relying various cases
including those addressing discovery of third-party personnel records. (See,
e.g., Harding Lawson Associates v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
7, 10.) These cases hold generally that “personnel records and employment
history are within the scope of the protection provided by the state and
federal Constitutions.”  (San Diego
Trolley, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 1083,
1097, disapproved of on other grounds in Williams, supra, at p. 557, fn.
8.) That said, Plaintiff provides no basis for the conclusion that he
has a reasonable expectation of privacy in the specific documents at issue in this
case. Further, Plaintiff provides no basis to support a conclusion that the
threatened intrusion is serious. Plaintiff has therefore failed to carry his
burden to justify his privacy objection. 
 
            Finally, the
Court turns to Plaintiff’s overbreadth and relevance objections.  Defendant contends that its request for
Plaintiff’s complaints of discrimination, etc., the prior employer’s handbook,
and disciplinary and termination records are reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence to “prove Plaintiff’s familiarity with employment rules,
grievance protocols, and standards of conduct (he failed to complain about any
alleged harassment against Defendants)” in support of Defendants’ affirmative
defenses of Consent and Avoidable Consequences. 
The Court fails to see the connection between Plaintiff’s complaints
against a prior employer or its employee handbook, on the one hand, and either
of the affirmative defenses advanced. 
While it is true that Plaintiff must show that harassment was
non-consensual under FEHA, Plaintiff’s knowledge of a prior employer’s policies
or his complaints against that prior employer have no bearing whatsoever on
whether Plaintiff consented to the alleged harassment he encountered at
Defendants’ workplace.  Nor is the Court
aware of any case law permitting a “consent” defense to be asserted against
statutory claims for discrimination and retaliation or the related common law
claims asserted by Plaintiff here.  This
is particularly true given that Defendants’ consent defense is apparently
grounded on Civil Code § 56, et seq., which has to do with maintaining
the confidentiality of medical records, and thus is utterly immaterial to the
allegations here.  
 
Nor can it be said that production
of these documents is justified by Defendants’ assertion of the affirmative
defense of Avoidable Consequences.  To
prove this defense, an employer must demonstrate it took reasonable steps to
prevent and correct workplace harassment, that plaintiff unreasonably failed to
use those preventative and corrective measures, and that reasonable use of
those measures would have prevented some or all of the plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 2526.) 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s general awareness of a prior
employer’s policies is somehow relevant in determining whether he unreasonably
failed to use Defendants’ complaint procedures. 
This connection is tenuous at best, but it disintegrates entirely in the
face of Plaintiff’s admission he made no complaint because of threats of
retaliation by Defendant Cifuentes, not because he was unaware in some general
way that some employers had remedial procedures in place.  Defendants’ attempt to support their quest to
obtain Plaintiff’s prior disciplinary records is even farther afield, and they
make no effort to explain how these documents could ever lead to disclosure of
admissible evidence about their consent or avoidable consequences defenses.  Based on these considerations, the Court
grants the motion to quash as to document categories 2, 8 (as to disciplinary
records), and 9.  
 
Defendants argue that employment
applications, performance reviews, job descriptions, and termination or
separation documents should be disclosed because they might include admissible
evidence in support of their affirmative defenses for unsatisfactory job
performance and/or for after-acquired evidence. 
The Court disagrees that evidence about Plaintiff’s poor job performance
for a prior employer could be used to support such a contention as to
Plaintiff’s work for Defendant.  The
proffer of such evidence would run afoul of Evidence Code section 1101’s bar on
the use of character evidence in the form of specific instances of prior
conduct to demonstrate later conduct consistent with that evidence.  That said, the Court concurs that at least
some of these documents are reasonably calculated to lead to the disclosure of
admissible evidence regarding the latter defense, in that they may contain
information about plaintiff’s work experience or reasons for leaving his prior
job that contradict representations he made to Defendants in his employment
application.  Thus, the Court denies the
motion to quash as to document categories 1, 4, 5, and 8 (as to performance
reviews), but limits the production to any documents revealing Plaintiff’s
compensation during the five years before his hiring by Defendants in 2020.  Earlier documents dating back to Plaintiff’s
hire in 2008 are so remote as to lack any probative value with respect to the
relevant issues.
 
Defendants argue they are entitled
to Plaintiff’s payroll records and W-2 and 1099 forms to determine Plaintiff’s
employability and assess whether he has failed to mitigate his damages.  In support of this contention, Defendants
cite to their Eighth Affirmative Defense (No Damages), which merely asserts
that Plaintiff suffered no adverse action, discrimination, retaliation or
harassment, and thus is not entitled to any damages. Plaintiff’s tax and
payroll records from prior employment are utterly immaterial to this
defense.  Defendants also point to their
Tenth Affirmative Defense for Failure to Mitigate to justify this document
request but fail to connect the elements of the defense to what the
sought-after documents are reasonably calculated to reveal.  In an employment action seeking damages from
wrongful termination under FEHA or in violation of public policy, an employer
advancing a failure to mitigate defense must prove that employment
substantially similar to the plaintiff’s former job was available, that the
plaintiff failed to make reasonable efforts to seek and retain such employment,
and what amount plaintiff could have earned from this employment.  While the tax records Defendant seeks are
wholly irrelevant to the first two elements, they may lead to the discovery of
evidence about what Plaintiff could have earned if he had secured substantially
similar employment.  Accordingly, the
Court denies the motion to quash as to document categories 7 and 11 but limits
the production to any documents revealing Plaintiff’s compensation during the
five years before his hiring by Defendants in 2020.
 
            In sum, the
Court grants the motion to quash as described above as to document categories 2,
8 (as to disciplinary records), and 9, and limits the temporal scope of
production with respect to document categories 1, 4, 5, 7, 8 (as to performance
reviews) and 11, based solely on Plaintiff’s relevance and overbreadth objections,
and otherwise denies the motion.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Third Party Deposition Subpoena for Business
Records is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Specifically, the Court grants the motion to
quash as described above as to document categories 2, 8 (as to disciplinary
records), and 9, and limits the temporal scope of production with respect to
document categories 1, 4, 5, 7, 8 (as to performance reviews) and 11, based
solely on Plaintiff’s relevance and overbreadth objections, and otherwise
denies the motion.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 23,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 