  Case Number:  22STCP03518    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 23, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
April 16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Myung Hye Kim v. David Okju An et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCP03518            
 
(1) MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
(SET ONE); REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(2) MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2)Plaintiff Myung Hye Kim
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2)No response
on eCourt as of 02/20/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/28/22: Complaint filed.
·        
12/22/22: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
03/03/23: Cross-Complaint filed by
Defendant/Cross-Complainant David Okju An as to Plaintiff.
·        
03/13/23: Cross-Complaint filed by
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Jhon Taehyo Lee and Dong Goon Lim as to Defendant
David Okju An.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and elder abuse
arising from a series of agreements with Defendants to perform construction
work for Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production and special interrogatories, and for
sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED IN
PART as to Requests Nos. 1 and 2 only. Defendant is ordered to provide further
verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 20 days of this
order. 
 
Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production propounded to Defendant.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Plaintiff served Requests for
Production (Set One) on Defendant on May 11, 2023. (Declaration of John A. S.
Baik ISO Mot. ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) After multiple rounds of extensions, responses, and
supplemental responses, the most recent round of supplemental responses were
served on January 22, 2024. (Id. ¶ 22, Exh. 21.)  This motion was filed the next day, on January
23, 2024. The motion is therefore timely. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel in support of the motion sets forth the extensive history of
Plaintiff’s attempts to informally disputes concerning Defendant’s responses to
these discovery requests. (See generally Baik Decl.) However, Plaintiff made no
effort to meet and confer regarding the sufficiency of this round of responses
before filing this motion. In the interest of a final resolution of this
dispute, however, the Court will consider the motion on its merits. 
 
Good Cause
 
            As a
preliminary matter, Plaintiff does not directly address whether good cause
exists for any of the discovery propounded here. However, as Plaintiff’s motion
is based on a contention that Defendant’s responses failed to comply with the
Court’s December 15, 2023 Minute Order pursuant to an agreement by the parties,
the Court finds that good cause has been shown by that agreement. 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
contends that Defendant An failed to comply with the Court’s December 15, 2023
order at an informal discovery conference to provide verified, code-compliant
responses to this discovery. (See Baik Decl. Exh. 14.) A code-compliant
response must be one of the following:
 
(1) A statement that the party
will comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling by the date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any
related activities.
 
(2) A representation that the
party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of item.
 
(3) An objection to the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210(a).) A representation of
inability to comply “shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand” and “shall also
specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.) The statement “shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” (Id.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that none of Defendant’s responses to this discovery are code-compliant
because they do not precisely mirror the form described in the Code of Civil
Procedure, and because some of the responses are missing documents which should
have been produced. 
 
1.      Requests
Nos. 1-2
 
            Requests Nos. 1 and 2 seek documents
identified by Defendant in his responses to the concurrently served form and
special interrogatories, respectively. (SS p.2:4-7.) In response, Defendant
stated “Responding party has produced responsive documents as he understands
the request.” (See Baik Decl. Exh. 21.) Plaintiff contends that this response
is inadequate because it does not mirror the Code of Civil Procedure, and
because several documents identified in Defendant’s interrogatory responses are
still missing. (SS p.2:9-20.) As Defendant has not responded to this motion,
the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to further responses to these
requests producing the documents identified in the interrogatories, or
otherwise accounting for their whereabouts as required by the code. 
 
2.      Requests Nos. 3, 5, 11-16, 18-19, 21-25,
46-48
 
These requests pertain to various documents either
described in or referencing matters described in the Complaint and
Cross-Complaint. (SS p.2:22-4:5.) Defendant responded to each interrogatory by
stating that “Responding party has produced responsive documents as he
understands the request.” Plaintiff contends that this response is not code
compliant because it does not mirror the Code of Civil Procedure. This argument
is not well-taken. Technical defects of the type described here are not
indicative of an inadequate or evasive response that requires an order
compelling further production. 
 
3.     
Requests Nos.
4, 26-43, 45
 
These requests pertain to correspondence between Defendant
and various individuals concerning the business ventures at the heart of this
case. (SS p. 4:14-6:7.) In response, Defendant stated “Responding Party
has made a reasonable and diligent search for the documents requested and has
found none. Responding Party believes that no such document exists, and as
such, is not presently within the care, custody and control of this Responding
Party.” (Id. p.6:8-13.) Defendant stated that it is his belief that if such
document exists it would be in the possession, custody, or control of specific
individuals whom he identifies. (Id.) As above, Plaintiff contends that this response is not code compliant
because it does not mirror the Code of Civil Procedure. For the reasons stated
above, the Court disagrees. 
 
4.     
Requests Nos.
6-8, 17, 20
 
These requests pertain to Alaska Bento’s stocks, bylaws,
minutes, and financials, and Defendant’s involvement therein. (SS p.7:1-9.) Defendant
responded: “Responding Party has made a reasonable and diligent search
for the documents requested and has found none. Responding Party does not know
if such document exists, and as such, is not presently within the care, custody
and control of this Responding Party.” (Id. p.7:10-12.) Defendant stated
that it is his belief that if such document exists it would be in the
possession, custody, or control of specific individuals whom he identifies. (Id.)
As above, Plaintiff contends that this response is
not code compliant because it does not mirror the Code of Civil Procedure. For
the reasons stated above, the Court disagrees. 
 
5.     
Requests Nos.
9-10
 
            These
requests seek Alaska Bento’s Tax returns and K-1s issued between 2019 and 2022.
(SS p.7:21-24.) In response, Defendant stated “Responding party has
produced tax returns for years 2019 and 2021. Tax returns for years 2020 and
2022 will be produced as soon as they are in the possession of responding
party.” Plaintiff contends that this statement is inadequate because it does
not follow the form of a statement of inability to comply as set forth in the
Code of Civil Procedure. However, this is not a statement of inability to
comply, but rather a statement of compliance. 
 
6.     
Request No. 44
 
This
request seeks all written correspondence between Defendant and any third
parties for whom he performed construction work from January 1, 2018 to the
present. (SS p 8:7-9.) “Responding Party has
made a reasonable and diligent search for the documents requested and has found
none. Responding Party does not know if such document exists, and as such, is
not presently within the care, custody and control of this Responding Party.” (Id.
p.8:10-12.) As above, Plaintiff contends that this
response is not code compliant because it does not mirror the Code of Civil
Procedure. For the reasons stated above, the Court disagrees. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions against Defendant for the failure to provide
code-compliant responses. As Plaintiff has not fully prevailed on this motion,
the Court declines to order sanctions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is
GRANTED IN PART as to Requests Nos. 1 and 2 only. Defendant is ordered to
provide further verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 20
days of this order. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories [Sanctions Only]
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to special interrogatories, and for
sanctions. At a previous hearing on this motion, Plaintiff represented to the
Court that supplemental responses had been provided, mooting the merits of this
motion and leaving only the issue of sanctions. (February 2, 2024 Minute
Order.) The Court therefore scheduled this further hearing on the issue of
sanctions only. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose
monetary sanctions on any attorney engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process by requiring that attorney to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d)
requires the Court to impose sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            Here, Plaintiff seeks sanctions in
the amount of $5,961.67 representing 10.6 hours of attorney time at $395 per
hour, plus 4.3 anticipated hours at the same rate, plus $61.65 in filing fees,
plus a further $14.52 in anticipated filing fees. (Declaration of John A. S.
Baik ISO Mot. ¶¶ 19-22.) This fee request is unreasonably inflated on
its face. It should not take 10.6 hours of actual time, plus a further 4.3
hours of anticipated time for an attorney with nearly three decades of
experience to bring a motion to compel responses challenging boilerplate
objections following a court order to provide code-compliant responses. The Court therefore exercises its discretion
to deny this request as unreasonably inflated. (Chavez v. City of Los Angeles (2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 989-991.) 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is
GRANTED IN PART as to Requests Nos. 1 and 2 only. Defendant is ordered to
provide further verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 20
days of this order. 
 
Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: February 23, 2024                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 