 Case Number:  21STCV33776    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint
Filed:      9/13/21
 
 
Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Department 27 
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing
Date:           3/12/2024
Case
No./Name:       21STCV33776
KEYLA LOPEZ vs Costco Wholesale Corporation
Motion:                    MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Moving
Party:           Cross Defendant
Arctic Cooling Systems, LLC
Responding
Party:    Cross
Complainant Costco Wholesale Corporation
Notice:                     Sufficient  
  
Ruling:                     MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS DEINED IN ITS ENTIRETY
 
 
Background
 
On 9/13/21, Plaintiff filed
the present action against Defendant Costco, alleging that she slipped and fell
on a puddle of water in Costco’s dairy section on 8/3/20. On 2/23/2023, Costco
filed a cross-complaint against Arctic Cooling Systems (Arctic) alleging that
the water causing Plaintiff to slip was due to improper maintenance by Arctic.
This included allegations that the overhead pipes and drip pan were not
properly maintained causing water to spill. Additionally, Costco produced a
contract between Arctic and Costco wherein Arctic indemnified Costco for
damages caused by their services. In the Cross Complaint, Costco alleges four
causes of action: (1) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention; (2)
comparative negligence; (3) express contractual indemnity, and (4) breach of
contract. Artic filed its answer on 4/6/2023. On 7/3/23, Arctic filed a motion
for summary judgment and summary adjudication as to each of Costco’s causes of
action. 
Arctic argues that Costco’s
discovery responses substantiating the first cause of action for negligent
supervision are factually void and also points to a declaration stating that
Arctic’s employees are all well-qualified. Second, Arctic argues that a
contract between the parties preempts indemnity based on a common law
comparative fault basis. Third, the slip and fall in question did not fall
under the indemnity clause under Arctic’s service agreement with Costco and
Costco failed to provide any evidence showing it did. Fourth, since the
accident was not covered by the indemnity clause of the service agreement, Arctic
did not breach its service agreement by refusing to defend Costco. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections 
 
Arctic’s evidentiary
objections Nos. 4 and 5 are overruled.
 
Preliminary
Issue
 
Although Costco’s
opposition was filed late, the Court will exercise its discretion and consider
the opposition.
 
Legal Standard 
 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite its allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve its dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.
4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.¿ 
 
A
“defendant moving for summary judgment must show the plaintiff’s causes of
action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849,
emphasis added.) In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply
because a case is “weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen
v. Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168,
187-188, superseded by statute on another point as recognized in¿Rice v.
Clark¿(2002) 28
Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a
showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact.”].) 
 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510,
1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” CCP §
437c(p)(2). The elements of negligence are (1) a legal duty owed
to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4)
damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.)
 
Defendant has two
methods to shift the burden of proof. In addition to the standard method of
presenting evidence that negates an essential element, the defendant may rely
upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that
the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued
upon. (Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 590.) “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
 
Defendant’s Initial Burden
 
1.  Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention
 
a.   Factually Devoid Discovery Responses
 
In meeting Arctic’s initial burden to dismiss Costco’s negligent hiring,
supervision and retention claim, Arctic first argues that Costco provided
factually devoid discovery responses. Arctic points to Costco's further
responses to Arctic’s Special Interrogatory (SROG) No. 11, where Costco stated:
 
“Arctic Cooling/Hill Phoenix was responsible for the
maintenance of the location's ceiling drip pans which were the potential cause
of plaintiffs incident. Arctic provided maintenance services on the subject
drip pan from June through August 2020, and did not properly fix the drip pan.
Costco requested maintenance services from June through August 2020 from Arctic
in order to repair the leaking drip pan, but Arctic failed to fix the issue.
Arctic employees/technicians Nicolas Gonzalez, Mark Kwasny, Matthew Spencer,
Michael Aguirre, Jr., Tomas Flores, Kody Anderson, Christopher Ziehm, and
Joshua Lever all provided maintenance services during the subject period on the
leaking drip pan but failed to fix the issue” (Exhibit 2.)
 
When Defendant attempt to shift its initial
burden on the basis that Plaintiff has no evidence in support of its claims,
Defendant must demonstrate: (1) Plaintiff’s discovery responses fail to set
forth facts and identify evidence supporting the plaintiff’s allegations;¿and¿(2) the court can¿reasonably infer¿from the proffered discovery and responses that plaintiff¿is unable to produce any additional evidence. (Andrews v.
Foster Wheeler LLC¿(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 102-103.)¿ Plaintiff must have been afforded adequate opportunity for
discovery (Union Bank v. Sup.Ct. (Demetry) (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573,
590) or have declared no further information following extensive discovery. (Weber
v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1441-1442.) Defendant does
not satisfy its burden of proof by producing discovery responses that do not
exclude the possibility that plaintiffs may possess or¿may reasonably obtain¿evidence sufficient to establish its claim. (Weber v. John
Crane, Inc.¿(2006) 143 CA4th 1433, 1441-1442.)   
 
Costco's responses to Special Interrogatory No. 11
were served on June 29, 2023, merely three months after Arctic filed its answer
on 4/6/23. (Exhibit 2.) Defendant's initial burden shifts only when Plaintiff
has provided factually devoid discovery responses after an adequate and
extensive discovery period. Based on the timeline and the evidence present, the
Court cannot conclude this to be the case.
 
Furthermore, in a motion for summary judgment, where
evidence and inferences reasonably drawn therefrom in the light most
favorable to the opposing party (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.), Costco's
responses to Special Interrogatory No. 11 revealed that Arctic's employees did
not act competently to repair the drip pan. This failure was not an isolated
incident but a persistent issue from June to August 2020 involving numerous
named Arctic employees. Furthermore, it can be inferred that Arctic knew or
should have known of its employees' failure to act effectively given the
persistent issue with the drain. Reasonable minds can differ as to whether
Costco’s discovery responses are factually devoid, but given the burden for a motion
for summary judgment, the Court deems them sufficient.
 
b.  Arctic’s Affirmative Evidence
 
Arctic also attempts to meet its initial burden by
introducing a declaration from Margarita Rivera, a controller working for
Arctic. Rivera stated that “All technicians who work for Arctic are trained and
certified to repair market refrigeration equipment by the local union. All
technicians are union members.” (Rivera Decl. ¶ 2.) 
This statement is too generic, as it pertains to all
technicians at Arctic and does not specifically reference the employees who
worked on Costco's cooling unit in the dairy section, nor does it address the
technicians' competence regarding the specific repair at issue. Furthermore,
this assertion is contradicted by Costco's responses to special interrogatories
No. 11 (Exhibit 2), which claims that Arctic's employees were incompetent and numerous
named Arctic technicians attempted to fix the issues with the cooling system in
the dairy section but continued failing to do so from June 2020 to August 2020.
The credibility of these opposing statements are for the jury to decide.
 
Accordingly, Arctic failed to meet its initial burden
and Arctic’s motion for summary adjudication as to Costco’s cause of action for
negligent hiring, supervision and retention is DENIED.
 
2.  Comparative Negligence
 
Arctic argues that contractual indemnity preempts
indemnity on equitable grounds, including contributory negligence. Defendant
cites to case law stating that "when parties by express contractual
provision establish a duty in one party to indemnify another, 'the extent of
that duty must be determined from the contract and not from the independent
doctrine of equitable indemnity.'" (C.L. Peck Contractors v. Superior
Ct. (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 828, 834.) However, in the very next sentence,
the C.L. Peck Contractors court states that "When, however, the
duty established by contract is by the terms and conditions of its creation
inapplicable to the particular factual setting before the court, the equitable
principles of implied indemnity may indeed come into play." (Id.) 
 
Arctic contends that the indemnity under the parties'
contract does not apply because Arctic did not provide any service to the
leaking parts, and, therefore, it is not covered by indemnity. If contractual indemnity,
as Arctic states, does not apply, then implied indemnity under equitable
principles such as contributory negligence would come into play. Arctic’s own
argument against express indemnity undermines its argument that the cause of
action for contributory negligence should be dismissed. Thus, Arctic’s motion
for summary adjudication as to Costco’s cause of action for comparative
negligence is DENIED.
 
3.  Express
Indemnity and Breach of Contract
 
a.  
Factually Devoid Discovery Responses
The indemnity clause question is Section 12.2 of
Arctic's service agreement with Costco, which states that Arctic will
"indemnify and defend Costco against any damages arising out of injury to
any person, by whomever suffered, claimed to result, in whole or in part, from
the work provided under this Agreement." Artic argues that Costco provided
factually devoid discovery responses in support of its claim for express
contractual indemnity. Arctic cites a pair of Costco’s discovery responses.
Artic first points to Costco's response to Special Interrogatory No. 1, which
asked Costco to “Identify the specific portion of the LEAKING PIPES which
caused the water to be present at the time of Plaintiffs accident.” (Exhibit 1
p. 2-3.) Costco responded that “Ceiling drip pans located in the dairy cooler
of the subject warehouse." (Id.) Arctic then points to Costco’s
response to Special Interrogatory No. 2 asking Costco to “State all facts which
support your contention that ARCTIC worked on the LEAKING PIPES prior to
Plaintiff's accident.” (Exhibit 1 p. 2.) Costco responded that “Arctic
Cooling/Hill Phoenix was responsible for the maintenance of the location's
ceiling drip pans which were the potential cause of plaintiffs incident. Arctic
provided maintenance services on the subject drip pan from June through August
2020, and did not properly fix the drip pan. See attached hereto as Exhibit E,
Hill Phoenix/Arctic Services Agreement, and attached as Exhibit F, Arctic Work
Orders from June through August 2020.” (Id.) Arctic then argues, based on the
work orders referenced in Costco's response to Special Interrogatory No. 2,
that none of these documents show Artic was fixing the drip pans near the dairy
section prior to the August 3, 2020, slip and fall incident. (Exhibit 4.)
b.  Analysis
The Court reviewed Costco's discovery responses to
Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 2. (Exhibit 1 p.2-3.) Costco's responses in
question were provided on May 23, 2023, merely one month after Arctic filed its
answer. (Exhibit 1 p.7.) This timeframe is not considered adequate or extensive
for Defendant’s initial burden to shift. Furthermore, the court examined
Arctic's work order, attached as Exhibit 4 to Arctic's motion. The work orders
indicate the cooling unit in the dairy section required multiple repairs since
March 2020. On 6/10/20, a work order was issued due to water leaks from the
drain pan in the dairy section. Another work order on 6/3/20 was issued for
leaks in the dairy section, identifying a water leak originating from the drain
pan flange. The order stated that the drop pan was repaired. The order
"drain pan" and "drop pan" are used, leaving uncertainty
whether "drop pan" is a typographical error for "drip pan"
and if "drain pan" and "drip pans" are synonymous. Arctic
did not provide clarification on this in its motion. Furthermore, Costco refers
to these work orders as evidence supporting their responses that Arctic failed
to repair the drip pan, reinforcing the inference that "drip pan" and
"drain pan" refer to the same component of the refrigerator. Again,
these questions would be the jury to decide. 
For Defendant’s initial burden to shift due to a
lack of evidence, Defendant requires not merely demonstrating that plaintiff’s
responses are factually devoid but also supporting an inference from the proffered
discovery and responses that plaintiff¿is
unable to produce any additional evidence. (Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC¿(2006)
138 Cal.App.4th 96, 102-103.). However, this is not the case. The work orders
produced by Arctic reveal that various repairs were made to the dairy coolers,
addressing issues such as water leaks, alarms, the AC unit, and the oil system
from March 2020 onwards. Given these multiple services provided by Arctic, it
seems possible for Costco to produce additional evidence in support of its
claim that Arctic’s repair or failure to successfully repair cause the water
leak that led to the slip and fall in question.
Thus, Arctic failed to meet its initial burden
regarding Costco's cause of action for express indemnity. Because Arctic's
summary adjudication of Costco's cause of action for breach of hinges upon the
dismissal of Costco's express indemnity claim, which we have just denied. For
that reason, Arctic's request for summary adjudication on the breach of
contract claim is also denied.
Costco’s Burden
Assuming Arctic has met its burden, Costco must
demonstrate a triable issue of material fact. Costco introduces a declaration
from Tino Camacho, who served as an administratve manager at Costco's Woodland
Hills warehouse. During his tenure, he managed the drip pan system in the
refrigerated dairy cooler area where the Plaintiff fell. (Camacho Decl. ¶ 7.) From
June to August 2020, the drip pan system experienced a leak issue that Arctic
Cooling, a third-party vendor, was tasked with maintaining. (Camacho Decl. ¶
9.) Arctic attempted to repair the leaking drip pan system from June through
August 2020, up until the day before the Plaintiff's accident on August 2,
2020, and reported the issue as resolved, yet the leak persisted. (Camacho
Decl. ¶ 10.) Camacho's declaration raises various triable issues of material
fact including whether Artic repaired the drip pan and whether Arctic’s various
unsuccessful repairs of the drip pan caused the slip and fall incident at
issue.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Arctic’s motion for Summary Judgment and
Summary adjudication is denied in its entirety.
 
¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
¿
 
 
 
 
 
 
 