 Case Number:  22STCV25649    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint: 10/20/2023 
 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿ 
Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿ 
Hearing Date:           3/12/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name.:      23STCV25649 BRIAN MENDOZA, AN INDIVIDUAL vs
RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY
Motion Name:           Motion To Strike 
Moving Party:           Defendant Ralph’s 
Responding Party:    Plaintiff 
Notice:                     Sufficient¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Background
 
On 10/20/23, Plaintiff filed the present action alleging he was
accosted, maced, and assaulted by Ralphs’s security. The complaint was amended
once on 1/12/24. On 2/13/24, the defendant moved the court to strike references
to and the prayer for punitive damages in the first amended complaint,
specifically targeting the following sections:
 
Page 7, ¶ 51: "Defendant’s conduct in ratifying and failing to
prevent this offensive conduct constitutes 'malice' and 'oppression' in that
Defendants, internally or with reckless disregard for the safety of Plaintiff,
ratified the confinement, assault, and battery of Plaintiff. Defendant ratified
this conduct through actions, including, without limitation, the conduct set
forth above, and the actions of the Security Guard in assaulting Plaintiff by
employing the mentioned employee."
 
Page 8, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 2: "For punitive and exemplary
damages in an amount not less than $2,000,000."
 
 
Defendant Ralph’s argues that the First
Amended Complaint (FAC) fails to allege sufficient facts that would raise a
circumstance of malice or oppression. Furthermore, the FAC does not allege
facts showing that a managing agent ratified the alleged wrongful conduct.
 
Legal Standard 
¿ 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322, subd. (b).) On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §
436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) “The
grounds for a motion to strike are limited to matters appearing on the face of
the challenged pleading or matters which must or may be judicially noticed. (§
437, subd. (a); Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985)
176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.) A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to
the granting of the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.54, subd. (c).)¿ 
¿ 
Analysis and Conclusion 
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil
Code section 3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not require actual intent to
harm. Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v.John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful
term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)¿ 
 
A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity
to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice.¿ To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.¿ (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,
1041-1042.)¿ “When nondeliberate injury is charged,
allegations that the defendant’s conduct was wrongful, willful, wanton,
reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary damages; such
allegations do not charge malice. (G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975)
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) 
¿ 
Moreover, a claim for punitive damages against a corporate employer
requires factual allegations that the corporation itself, rather than a given
employee, ratified or authorized the malicious and oppressive conduct. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (b); Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160,
167; see Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
123, 164 [law does not impute every employee' s malice to a corporation].)
 
Plaintiff contends that his First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleges
malice by stating that “each and all, negligently, and willfully, intentionally
and purposely, targeted Plaintiff, or otherwise allowed the targeting and abuse
of Plaintiff to transpire” and by reason of the “wanton, reckless conduct ...
of Defendant, Plaintiffs are entitled to recover punitive and exemplary
damages.” (Opposition at p.5.) However, these allegations are all filled with
legal conclusions. Plaintiff must prove terms such as willfully, intentionally,
wanton, and reckless conduct for punitive damages, and facts to support these conclusions
must be pled with specificity.
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that he has pled how a managing agent
of the corporation ratified or authorized the malicious conduct Plaintiff points to the portion
of the complaint stating that “the businesses were at all relevant times
responsible for their employees and invitees, including those who oversaw the
security at their property.” (Id.) Plaintiff further pled that “both entities
owned, maintained, and controlled the subject property, and it flows therefrom
that in that capacity they have trained, supervised, and controlled their
representative(s) and agent(s), and third-party agents with respect to not
acting in illegal, reckless disregard of the rights and safety of others.” (Id.)
Again, these allegations fail to demonstrate with specificity who is the
managing agent that ratified the security’s conduct and how he/she ratified the
conduct.
It appears that Plaintiff lacks knowledge of
the names or identities of any managing agent of the Defendant who ratified the
security guard's conduct but hopes to uncover this information during
discovery. (Opposition at p.6.) Consequently, granting leave to amend now would
not provide Plaintiff with an opportunity to plead facts with specificity in
support of its punitive damage claims. Thus, Defendant’s motion to strike is
granted without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff may seek leave to amend at a later time if he uncovers facts
through discovery that will support punitive damages.