 Case Number:  21STCV30821    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      8/19/21
  
   
Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Department 27   
Tentative Ruling  
  
Hearing Date:           3/12/2024
Case No./Name.:      21STCV30821
JUSTIN FREEMAN V. JAIME MOLINA
Motion:                              MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
Moving Party:           Plaintiff’s Counsel Timothy Mina
Ghobrial 
Responding
Party:      Unopposed 
Notice:                                Sufficient    
    
Ruling:                               MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL IS CONTINUED 
 
 
On August 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
current auto accident action. Plaintiff is currently represented by Attorney
Timothy Mina Ghobrial. On January 24, 2024, the Court denied counsel's motion
to be relieved. While acknowledging that a breakdown in attorney-client
communication is valid grounds for such a request, the Court expressed concerns
regarding whether counsel adequately notified Plaintiff. Specifically, the Court
questioned whether 2887 Mosshire Circle, Saint Cloud, FL 34772-3603 is indeed
Plaintiff Gonzalez's current address. Plaintiff’s counsel claimed to have used
"skip trace" to verify Plaintiff Gonzalez's current address, yet
provided no explanation or evidence of this process. This was the same issue
the Court addressed last time counsel appeared on this motion.
In the present
motion filed on February 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel again failed to explain
what a skip trace is, its reliability, or any evidence relating to the search
results, such as, for instance, a printout of the results. This time, the
search indicated Plaintiff's address as 552 Southern Charm Dr., Orlando, FL
32807-5075. The Court harbors doubts regarding the reliability of this skip
trace method, especially given that it yielded two different current addresses
within the span of two months.
 
The motion to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Gonzalez is CONTINUED to April 12, 2024, at 1:30
PM in this department. Counsel is instructed to file and serve a declaration
explaining how he determined the new address is reliable at least 5 court days
before the continued hearing in accordance with CCP § 1005(b), and he is
ordered to explain why he is back in court with the exact same issue as last
time, thereby wasting court time and resources. 
Counsel is also ordered to give Notice of the new hearing date.
 
 PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE:      
   
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.        
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.        
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.       
 
 
 
 
 