 Case Number:  22STCV26523    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      08/16/22
 
¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative
Ruling 
 
Hearing Date:           3/12/2024 
Case No./Name:       22STCV26523 JESSICA MARIE MOORE, et al. vs
POMONA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTR
Motion:                    Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint
Moving Party:                 Defendant Pomona Unified School District
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling:                     DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED
 
 
Background 
 
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
present case alleging child abuse by Elvira Martinez, an employee of the Pomona
Unified School District. The First Amended Complaint was filed on April 24,
2023. In November 2023, Defendant Pomona Unified School District received
discovery responses from Plaintiff revealing that Defendant Martinez was
convicted under Penal Code 273a for willfully inflicting physical pain on a
child. (Tourkow Decl. ¶ 7, Exhibit B.) Defendant was not informed of this fact
until it received Plaintiff’s discovery responses. Defendant now moves the
Court to file a cross-complaint against Martinez for indemnity.
 
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
428.50 provides:¿ 
¿ 
“(a) A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint.¿ 
¿ 
(b) Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial.¿ 
¿ 
(c)¿A party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed¿within¿the time¿specified in
subdivision (a)¿or¿(b).¿ Leave may be
granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”¿ 
¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 428.50.)¿¿ 
¿ 
“A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause,
may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon
such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to
file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead
the cause acted in good faith.¿ This subdivision
shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
(Emphasis added.)¿ 
¿ 
The Court of
Appeals has explained: “The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal
construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is
imposed on the trial¿court. A motion
to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be
granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture
would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.)
“‘‘Bad faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of
‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or
a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some
duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . .,
but by some interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or
negligence, but rather . . . the conscious doing of a wrong because of
dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively
operating with furtive design or ill will. (Id. at 100.)¿ 
 
A cross-complaint
is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the time of serving the
defendant’s answer to the complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221
Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)¿ A related cause
of action is “. . . a cause of action which arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ Leave must be
granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in
good faith.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)¿ 
 
Analysis and Conclusion
 
Pomona Unified School District's cross-complaint is mandatory, as
it seeks to file a claim for indemnity against Defendant Martinez for causes of
action alleged against her in the First Amended Complaint (FAC). Furthermore,
Defendant stated that it was not until November 3, 2023, when Plaintiff served
its discovery responses, that the District learned for the first time that
Defendant Martinez had been convicted under Penal Code 273a for willfully
inflicting physical pain on a child. The District was unaware of this fact
until the receipt of Plaintiff’s discovery responses. The Court finds good
cause for the delay. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not contest that she will be
prejudiced by the filing of the cross complaint, as there has been no
opposition filed against the present motion. Defendant also attached the
proposed cross complaint as Exhibit A. Thus, Defendant’s motion for leave to file a
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Moving Party to give notice.
 
 