  Case Number:  20VECV01388    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  W MARK A. LIKER
vs ELIEZER APPEL, et al.
 
motion to quash service of summons
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 19, 2024                                              Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case No.:        20VECV01388
 
Moving Party:            Specially
Appearing Defendant Knolton, Inc.          
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Mark A. Liker
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Mark A. Liker alleges
Defendant Eliezer Appel, in his capacity as a California licensed attorney,
instructed Plaintiff to purchase certain real property for $250,000.00 to
Defendant Cochran Inc. and promised Plaintiff a return on his investment as
well as plaintiff would take ownership of the property or that the property
would secure Plaintiff’s investment. Plaintiff further alleges Eliezer Appel
concealed from Plaintiff the fact that plaintiff did not own the property or
the company that took title to the property that is, the Defendant Lockhart
Development, Inc., and that Eliezer Appel took Plaintiff’s investment for his
own gain. 
 
On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff Mark A.
Liker filed a complaint against Defendants Eliezer Appel, Lockhart Development,
Inc., and Cochran Inc. asserting a single cause of action for fraud. Plaintiff
filed a Second Amended Complaint on August 30, 2023, asserting new causes of
action – breach of contract, negligent misrepresentation, intentional
misrepresentation, conspiracy to commit fraud, and breach of attorney fiduciary
duty/duty of loyalty. Liker added Knolton Inc. as Defendant Doe 1. 
 
On February 11, 2021, Lockhart
Development, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Mark A. Liker asserting
causes of action for (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Intentional or
Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations; (3) Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Implied
Contractual Indemnity; and (7) Slander of Title. 
 
On October 20, 2022, Appel filed a
cross-complaint against Liker, the California Neurological Institute, and Avi
Marciano asserting causes of action for (1) Violation of Physician’s Medical
Practice Act (MPA); (2) Undue Influence (CA Welfare & Institutions Code
15610.70); (3) Negligent Infliction of Extreme Emotional Distress (NIED); (4) Intentional
Infliction of Extreme Emotional Distress (IIED); (5) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage; and (6) Civil Extortion.      
 
This action is related to Marc A.
Larocque v. Christine Larocque Franz, et al. (LC105233). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Knolton, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Knolton,
Inc. files this motion to quash service of summons and complaint on the grounds
Knolton, Inc. was not properly served. 
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10(a).)  “[C]ompliance with
the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish
personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)  “[T]he filing of a proof of service
creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it
“complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.”  (Id.
at 1441-1442.)  When a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the
court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” 
(Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)  “A court
lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of
process.”  (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801,
808.) 
 
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff added
Knolton Inc. as a Doe 1 defendant to the complaint. (Amendment to Complaint.)
Knolton, Inc. argues on November 28, 2023, Plaintiff attempted to serve Knolton
Inc. by trying to serve Mr. Andrew Ollie Mason, who is an officer at Knolton,
at 57 West Palm St. Altadena CA 91001. (Mason Decl. ¶¶3, 6.) However, Mr. Mason
no longer resided there, and the substituted service occurred on a Mr. Neil
Smith. (Mason Decl. ¶¶5-6; Smith Decl. ¶¶5-7.) Mr. Smith informed the process
server he is not authorized to accept service and refused the papers. (Smith
Decl. ¶6.) However, the process server dropped the package at the front door
and left. (Smith Decl. ¶7.) Two days later, Mr. Mason received a call from Mr.
Smith and informed him of what occurred. (Mason Decl. ¶¶4-6; Smith Decl. ¶8.) Since
Mr. Mason never came to pick up the package, Mr. Smith threw the package in the
trash. (Smith Decl. ¶11.) Knolton, Inc. argues as a result, Plaintiff has not
complied with the strict statutory requirements to give the court jurisdiction.

 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
registration for Knolton Inc. on file with the California Secretary of State’s
Office indicates that the agent for service of process is Andrew Mason located
at 57 West Palm Street in Altadena CA 91001. As such, that is where service was
attempted. Per California Corporations Code section 1502, Plaintiff contends
Knolton, Inc. was required to update the address for its agent for service of
process. Because Knolton has not updated the address for service of process
with the CA Secretary of State as is required by law, Plaintiff argues Knolton,
Inc. should be estopped from now raising the argument that the agent for service
of process has a new address. Moreover, Knolton has refused and continues to
refuse to provide an address for service of process, withholding that new address
from Plaintiff despite several requests to counsel for Kolton. Alternatively,
Plaintiff argues the court is inclined grant its motion to quash service of
process, then plaintiff requests that the court grant approval to serve process
on Knolton by service on the Secretary of State. 
 
The court finds that Knolton, Inc.
presents sufficient evidence to rebut the presumption that service on Defendant
was proper. While the court agrees Knolton, Inc. should not escape the
consequences where, as here, the summons was served in accordance with its own
directions on the Secretary of State website, there is nothing to indicate that
service was proper under Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20(b). Mr. Smith
informed the process server that Mr. Mason no longer resided there, he had no
affiliation with Knolton, Inc. and refused service. There was no indication
that service upon Mr. Smith made it more likely than not that they will deliver
process to the named party. (Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc.¿(1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 1387, 1393; Ellard v. Conway¿(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540,
546 (footnote 3).) 
 
The court notes a Statement of
Information must be filed if the name and/or address of the agent for service
of process changes or the agent resigns. (Corp. Code §1502(e).) As such,
Knolton, Inc. is ordered to comply with all requirements of Corporations Code
and provide Plaintiff with such information. If Knolton, Inc. fails to do such
within ten days, Plaintiff may serve process on Knolton by service on the
Secretary of State. (Corp. Code §1702.) 
 
Accordingly, Knolton, Inc.’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. 