Motion to be Relieved as CounselMandeep S. Rupal and Alexander W. Richter seek to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Sunergy Construction, Inc.The Motion is granted because it meets all requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362.Rupal and Richter to give notice.Attorney is relieved as counsel of record for client effective upon the filing of the proof of service for the Court order (form MC-053) upon the client.Motion for Trial PreferencePlaintiff Delia Alvino seeks a trial preference due to her age and health under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).  Defendants Sunrun Inc. and Sunrun Installation Services, Inc. oppose the Motion because (1) there isn’t evidence that Plaintiff’s health is such that she would be prejudiced without a preference and (2) all essential parties have not yet appeared.  Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a) states, “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”Plaintiff has sufficiently shown, via her own declaration, that she (1) is 86 years old; (2) has a substantial interest in this action because this action relates to her real property; and (3) has, among other things, kidney disease, hypertension, heart disease, and a brain tumor that could very well prejudice her if there were a substantial delay before trial.  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s husband, Alfred Alvino, has not appeared and this is problematic as he seems to be a co-owner of the subject property given that he executed a deed of trust with respect to the property.  That is, an essential party has not appeared.  Code Civ. Proc. § 36(c)(1) states that the instant Motion should be “supported by a declaration of the moving party that all essential parties have been served with process or have appeared.”Code Civ. Proc. § 389 provides, “A person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 389.)  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 389, “ ‘[a] person is an indispensable party [only] when the judgment to be rendered necessarily must affect his rights.’ ”  (Olszewski v. Scripps Health (2003) 30 Cal.4th 7908, 808-809.)   Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants damaged her home through their negligent installation of solar panels that she never wanted and which were procured through fraud and forgery.  Plaintiff’s husband seems to be an essential/indispensable party because he is a co-owner of the subject property such that his absence could subject Defendants to the future risk of double or inconsistent obligations.  Plaintiff’s husband, however, is not a party to this suit.  Therefore, the Motion for Trial Preference is denied without prejudice.  The Motion can be renewed when Alfred Alvino has joined this suit.  As a note, Defendants—in a separate motion to join indispensable parties—also contend that Plaintiff’s lender (and associated entities) should be joined in this suit.  The Court, however, sees little reason why the lender would be a necessary plaintiff in this case.  (See, e.g., Harboring Villas Homeowners Assn. v. Superior Ct. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 426, 428.)Plaintiff to give Notice.Pro Hac Vice AdmissionDefendants Sunrun Inc. and Sunrun Installation Services, Inc. seek pro hac vice admission for Sarah C. Thompson.The Application is granted because it meets all requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.