  Case Number:  23PSCV01682    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner Tawney Alonso’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Plaintiff
Kaitlyn Alcala, a Minor
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner Tawney Alonso’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for
Plaintiff Kaitlyn Alcala, a Minor is CONTINUED to a date to be determined in
Department G (Pomona).
The Court further orders Plaintiff Kaitlyn Alcala’s
counsel to file a supplemental declaration in support of the request for
attorney fees no later than nine (9) court days before the hearing scheduled in
Department G.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In June
2021, Plaintiffs Taide Alarcon Alonso and Kaitlyn Alcala were involved in a
motor vehicle collision with Defendant Linda Rodriguez at the intersection of
Garey Avenue and East Mission Boulevard in Pomona.
On June
5, 2023, Alcala, through guardian ad litem Tawny Alonso, and Alarcon Alonso filed
a complaint against Rodriguez and Does 1-25, alleging a single cause of action
for motor vehicle negligence.
On October
17, 2023, Alarcon Alonso and Alcala filed a notice of conditional settlement. On
June 26, 2024, Alonso filed the present petition on Alcala’s behalf. A hearing
on the present petition is set for August 1, 2024, along with an OSC Re:
Dismissal.
ANALYSIS
Alonso
petitions for the court’s approval of a $19,999.99 settlement reached between Alcala
and Rodriguez. For the following reasons, the court CONTINUES the hearing on the petition.
Legal Standard
An
enforceable settlement of a minor’s or incompetent’s claim can only be
consummated with court approval. (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 372.) For this purpose, a petition for approval must be presented
to the court and until it is granted, there is no final settlement. (Scruton
v. Korean Air Lines Co. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1596, 1603-1606.) Any
settlement agreement therefore is voidable by the minor’s guardian ad litem. (Id.,
at p. 1606.)
Probate
Code section 3600, et seq., governs how the settlement proceeds are to be paid.
Pursuant to Probate Code section 3601, the order shall approve payment of
reasonable expenses from the settlement as follows:
The court making the order or giving the judgment
referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make a further order
authorizing and directing that such reasonable expenses (medical or otherwise
and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator), costs, and
attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall be paid
from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the benefit of the
minor or incompetent person. (Prob. Code, § 3601, subd. (a).)
In
cases pursuant to Probate Code section 3601, “unless the court has approved the
fee agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court 7.955, subd. (a)(1).) In doing so, “[t]he
court must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made
between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances
existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.” (Cal. Rules of Court 7.955,
subd. (a)(2).)
Discussion
Pursuant
to the settlement agreement reached between the parties, Rodriguez agrees to
pay a total of $19,999.99 to Alcala. (Petition, ¶ 10.)
With regard to attorney
fees, a retainer agreement is attached to the Petition as Attachment 17a. In
it, the attorney fees for Alcala will be 40% of the gross recovery if the
matter is resolved following the filing of a lawsuit. (Attach. 17a, ¶ 6.) Here,
Alcala’s counsel requests $6,666.66 in attorney fees which is only 33.33% of Alcala’s
total recovery. (Petition, ¶ 13.) In previously continuing the hearing on
the petition, the court ordered Alcala’s counsel to file a supplemental
declaration that supports counsel’s request for attorney fees and provides an
itemization of the hours worked. (7/2/2024 Ruling, p. 2.) But while counsel
filed a supplemental declaration, it remains deficient.
In determining the reasonableness of an attorney
fees award, the Court must consider “the nature, difficulty, intricacy and
importance of the litigation, the amount involved, the skill required and
success of the attorney's efforts, his or her learning, age and experience, and
the time consumed.” (Contractors Labor Pool, Inc. v. Westway Contractors,
Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 152, 169.) Here,
counsel’s supplemental declaration fails to adequately address each of these
factors. It does not describe the learning, age, and experience of counsel. Nor
does it provide an itemization or estimate of the total hours worked on this
matter despite the court’s previous directive to do so.
Accordingly, the court CONTINUES the
hearing on Alonso’s application to a date to be determined in Department G
(Pomona) and orders Alcala’s counsel to file another supplemental declaration
in support of the request for attorney fees no later than nine (9) court days
before the hearing scheduled in Department G.