 Case Number:  24PSCV00548    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC’s Motion
to Expunge Lis Pendens or in the Alternative, Require Plaintiff to Post a Bond
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
Defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
Defendant PHH Mortgage Corporation’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC’s Motion
to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED and costs are awarded in the amount of
$397.50.
 
Defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint and Defendant PHH Mortgage
Corporation’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint are CONTINUED to
a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendants’ Counsel are also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs regarding the present demurrers and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action to quiet title. In November 1987,
Plaintiff Shelia Crigler and William Crigler purchased a property in Pomona. To
finance their purchase, they obtained a secured loan and subsequently mortgaged
the Pomona property for additional funds. In October 2018, they executed a
quitclaim deed to convey their ownership to the Family Trust of William Robert
Crigler and Shelia Vera Crigler. After William Crigler passed away in 2018,
Plaintiff Kyndle Crigler assumed the mortgage payments. In 2022, the Criglers
applied for and were placed on a payment plan by Defendant PHH Mortgage
Corporation (PHH). In April 2023, PHH removed the Criglers from the repayment
plan after they allegedly failed to pay timely property charge expenses. While
the Criglers allege they attempted to make payment toward the amount demanded
by PHH, PHH proceeded with nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings. On December 4,
2023, Defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC (Breckenridge) purchased
the Pomona property at a foreclosure auction.
 
On February 21, 2024, the Criglers filed a complaint
against Breckenridge, First American Title Insurance Company (First American),
PHH, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) quiet title,
(2) cancellation of written instrument, (3) wrongful foreclosure, (4)
declaratory relief, (5) slander of title, and (6) negligent misrepresentation.
On May 13, 2024, the Court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint by
Breckenridge.
 
On June 3, 2024, the Criglers filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On June 7, 2024,
Breckenridge filed the present motion to expunge lis pendens.
 
On June 17, 2024,
Breckenridge filed the present demurrer.
 
On July 3, 2024,
PHH also filed a demurrer to the FAC.
 
A hearing on the present motions is set for August 1, 2024,
along with a case management conference.
 
MOTION TO
EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
 
Breckenridge moves to expunge a notice of lis
pendens that has been recorded against 1615 California Place, Pomona,
California 91768 (Pomona property). For the following reasons, the court GRANTS
their motion.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
405.30, a party may move to expunge a notice of lis pendens and the burden of
proof rests with the claimant. Code of Civil Procedure section 405.31 states
the court must expunge a notice of lis pendens if “the pleading on which the
notice is based does not contain a real property claim.” If the pleading does
contain a real property claim, “the court shall order that the notice be
expunged if the court finds that the claimant has not established by a
preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the Criglers failed to file a
timely opposition to the present motion. Because they have the burden of
establishing the existence of a real property claim and that claim’s probable
validity, the court GRANTS Breckenridge’s motion.
 
Breckenridge also requests the award of
attorney fees for making the present motion. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 405.38, a party prevailing on a motion to expunge a notice of
lis pendens shall “be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of attorney's fees and costs unjust.” 
 
Utilizing the lodestar approach and in light
of the totality of the circumstances, the court awards reasonable attorney fees
and costs to Breckenridge in the amount of $397.50 ($337.50 for 1.5 hours
drafting the motion and attending the hearing at an hourly rate of $225.00 plus
$60.00 in filing fees).
 
DEMURRERS
 
Breckenridge demurs to the Criglers’ first
cause of action (quiet title), second cause of action (cancellation of
instruments), and fourth cause of action (declaratory relief). PHH demurs to the
Criglers’ third cause of action (wrongful foreclosure), fourth cause of action
(declaratory relief), fifth cause of action (slander of title), and sixth cause
of action (negligent misrepresentation). For
the following reasons, the court finds the parties did not adequately meet and
confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Breckenridge’s
counsel attempted to meet and confer by sending emails to the Criglers’
counsel. PHH’s counsel also attempted to meet and confer by sending emails to
the Criglers and their counsel. Because emails are not a code-compliant form of
meeting and conferring and counsel has not described any attempt to contact
counsel or the Criglers by telephone, the court finds a continuance to further
meet and confer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Breckenridge’s motion to expunge
lis pendens is GRANTED and costs are awarded in the amount of $397.50.
 
Furthermore, Breckenridge’s and PHH’s demurrers are CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona). Breckenridge’s counsel and
PHH’s counsel are also ordered to meet and confer with the Criglers regarding the
present demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet
and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled
hearing.