 Case Number:  22STCV06786    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion
for an Evidence Sanction and a Monetary Sanction
Tentative
The motion is
denied.
Background
On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff Molly Jean
Sliwoski (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Extended Stay
America, Inc.; ESA P Porfolio Operating Lessee, LLC (“ESAP”); and Does 1
through 100, asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability.  Plaintiff alleges that on September 29, 2020, while
Plaintiff was visiting a guest at Defendant’s premises, she sat on a bench, the
bench collapsed, and she sustained injuries as a result.
On March 30, 2022, ESAP filed its answer.
On July 21, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint
to name ESH Hospitality, Inc., as Doe 1.
On September 19, 2022, Defendant ESA Management,
LLC (“ESAM”), erroneously sued as Extended Stay America, Inc. and ESH
Hospitality, Inc., filed its answer.
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”).  On June 16, 2023, ESAP and ESAM (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed an answer to the FAC.
As it relates to the motion set for hearing on
June 6, Defendants served notices for the depositions of five police officers
on January 12, 2024.  (Farahi Decl., ¶ 2
& Exh. A.)  The depositions were set
for February 5, 6, and 7.  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff served written objections to each of
the deposition notices.  (Id., ¶ 3
& Exh. B.)  The sole ground stated in
each objection was that “the date and time set forth for the deposition were
unilaterally selected by Defendants, i.e., without consultation with
Plaintiff’s attorney.”  (Id., Exh.
B.)  In each objection, Plaintiff also stated
that her counsel was “willing to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel in
order to address any scheduling and logistical issues.”  (Ibid.)  
On February 6, Defendant renoticed the
depositions of these five police officers for February 27, 28, and 29.  (Id., ¶ 7 & Exh. C.)  Plaintiff states that this was done without
contacting her counsel to coordinate available dates for the deposition.  (Id., ¶¶ 6, 8.)
On February 22, Plaintiff served written
objections to each of the deposition notices. 
(Id., ¶ 9 & Exh. D.) 
The sole ground stated in each objection was that “Defendant has
consistently and unilaterally scheduled the deposition’s date and time,
completely failing to consult or even attempt to coordinate with the Plaintiff’s
Attorney.”  (Id., Exh. D.)  In each objection, Plaintiff also stated that
her counsel was “willing to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel in order
to address any scheduling and logistical issues.”  (Ibid.)
On the next day, February 23, Defendants’ counsel
sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel explaining the reasons for the scheduling,
including to accommodate the schedules of the third-party witnesses.  (Id., ¶ 15 & Exh. G; see also Kim
Decl., ¶ 8.)  Defendants’ counsel also
called Plaintiff’s counsel, left a voice mail message about the depositions,
and requested a return call.  (Kim Decl.,
¶ 11.)  Plaintiff’s counsel did not
return the call.  (Id., ¶¶ 11-13.)
On February 27, the day set for the first of the
depositions, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to Defendants’ counsel
expressing concern about the unilateral scheduling of depositions and about the
relevance of the depositions.  (Farahi
Decl., ¶ 11 & Exh. E.)  Defendants’
counsel responded the next day.  (Id.,
¶¶ 15, 17 & Exh. G; see also Kim Decl., ¶ 16.)
On March 7, Plaintiff’s counsel received an email
from the court reporter for depositions inquiring whether Plaintiff wished to
order a copy of the transcripts.  (Farahi
Decl., ¶ 12 & Exh. F.)
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion
for an evidence sanction and a monetary sanctions against Defendants and their
counsel.  Defendants filed an opposition
on May 23, along with their own request for monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff filed a reply on May 30.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in
California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210
through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other things) what must be
included in a deposition notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and
how and when the notice must be served.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410
contains detailed provisions regarding objections to deposition notices and the
procedures for resolving any dispute regarding such objections.
Subdivision (a) of section 2025.410 requires
any party to serve a written objection at least three days before the
deposition if the party contends that there is an “error or irregularity” in a
deposition notice.
Subdivision (b) provides:
“Any deposition taken after the service
of a written objection shall not be used against the objecting party under
Section 2025.620 [relating to the use of deposition transcripts at trial and
other hearings] if the party did not attend the deposition and if the court
determines that the objection was a valid one.”
Subdivision (c) states that an objecting
party may, after meeting and conferring, “move for an order staying the taking
of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. … The taking of the
deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.” 
And subdivision (d) authorizes monetary
sanctions under Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act “against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to quash a
deposition notice.”
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010 defines “misuses of the discovery process” to
include, without limitation, “(b) Using a discovery method in a manner that
does not comply with its specified procedures.  … (e) Making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery. … (h) Making, or
opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to
compel or to limit discovery. … (i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone,
or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery [when the
applicable statute requires a meet and confer declaration].”
Section 2023.030 authorizes
the imposition of sanctions for misuse of the discovery process, including an
evidence sanction and/or a monetary sanction, “[t]o the extent authorized by
the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of
this title.”
Discussion
The Court begins by addressing a number of
preliminary issues.
First, throughout her moving and reply
papers, Plaintiff cites unpublished Superior Court decisions.  Unpublished Superior Court decisions (which
is to say, all Superior Court decisions, except for those of the Appellate
Division), no matter how well reasoned, have no precedential value and are not
properly cited as authority.
Second, Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions against Defendants and their counsel is not properly supported by a
declaration “setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.)  For this reason alone, Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
Third, any request for sanctions under the
Civil Discovery Act must be made pursuant to a specific provision of the Act.  The Civil Discovery Act authorizes the
imposition of sanctions in certain specific circumstances.  There is no general, catch-all provision in
the Act that authorizes a court to impose sanctions any time the court perceives
that it is just or reasonable to do so.  There
is no general, catch-all provision in the Act that authorizes a court to impose
sanctions whenever a party has engaged in a misuse of the discovery
process.  To the contrary, Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the imposition of sanctions only when there
has been a misuse of the discovery process and sanctions are “authorized by the
chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of
this title.”  (This “title” refers to the
Civil Discovery Act, sections 2016.010 through 2036.050.)
The Court understands that many practitioners
believe that courts have the power to impose sanctions under the Civil
Discovery Act for any misuse of the discovery process.  That is not correct.  That is not what section 2030.030 says.
The Second District Court of Appeal,
in an opinion by Justice Moor, made this very point in City of Los Angeles
v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.  The Court is aware that the California
Supreme Court has granted review of the City of Los Angeles case.  The order granting review, filed on January
25, 2023, states that pending review, the appellate opinion “may be cited,”
including “for its persuasive value.” 
The Court finds the reasoning of Justice Moor, which is based on the
plain language of the applicable statutes, to be persuasive.
Turning now to the substance of the dispute,
the Court notes that in Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, the
Legislature anticipated precisely the type of dispute that is raised by the
parties here, and the Legislature provided clear rules regarding how to
proceed.  A party objecting to a deposition
notice has three options: (1) attend the deposition and, at least potentially,
be deemed to have waived the objections to the notice; (2) file a motion to
stay the deposition and quash the notice, which stays the taking of the
deposition and subjects a party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes the motion
to monetary sanctions; or (3) not attend the deposition, not file a motion to
stay and quash, not seek monetary sanctions, and wait to object at trial (or
other hearing) to any use of the deposition taken in the party’s absence, with
the understanding that the objection will be sustained if the objection to the
deposition notice was valid.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subds. (b)-(d); see also 2 Weil & Brown, California
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (2023), ¶¶ 8:507-515.)
Plaintiff has not chosen option #1 or option
#2.  That leaves option #3.  Plaintiff may object at trial (or by way of a
motion in limine) to any use of the deposition, pursuant to the express terms
of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, subdivision (b).
For these reasons, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion for monetary sanctions.  Sanctions
are not authorized by any provision of the Civil Discovery Act, and the request
for sanctions is not properly supported by a declaration from counsel supporting
the amount of requested sanctions.
For these reasons, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion for an evidentiary sanction.  The
denial is without prejudice to Plaintiff seeking to exclude the testimony at
trial, by way of a motion in limine or timely objection at trial.  
For these reasons, the Court DENIES Defendants’
request for sanctions.  Sanctions are not
authorized by any provision of the Civil Discovery Act.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for monetary
sanctions. 
The Court DENIES, without prejudice, Plaintiff’s motion
for evidence sanctions.
The Court DENIES Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions.
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.