  Case Number:  19STCV28285    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s Complaint for
Delay in Prosecution filed by Specially Appearing Defendant Raymond-Southern
California, Inc.
Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s Complaint for Delay in Prosecution filed by Defendant
W.E. O’Neil Construction Company 
 
Tentative
The
motions are granted.
Background
On August 14, 2019, Jasmine Dominguez (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Burbank Mall Associates, LLC and Does 1 through 100 for
negligence and premises liability arising out of an incident in which Plaintiff
asserts that she was injured by falling bathroom sink metal.
On August 16, 2019, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Burbank
Town Center as Doe 1.
On December 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed the complaint to name CAPREF
Burbank LLC (“CAPREF”) as Doe 2. CAPREF filed an answer on March 9, 2021.
On December 28, 2020, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff,
dismissed without prejudice all causes of action in the complaint against
Burbank Mall Associates, LLC.
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Jones
Lang Lasalle Americas, Inc. (“JLL”) as Doe 3. JLL filed an answer on January
30, 2024.
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name W.E.
O’Neil Construction Company of California (“O’Neil”) as Doe 4. 
On March 29, 2024, O’Neil filed an answer to the complaint. On the
same day, O’Neil filed a cross-complaint against Raymond Southern California
Inc. (“Raymond”) and Roes 1 through 50.
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Raymond
as Doe 5.
On April 24, 2024, JLL and CAPREF filed a cross-complaint against
O’Neil, Raymond, and Roes 1 through 50.
Currently before the Court and set for hearing on June 6 are two
motions.
In the first motion, filed on May 2, 2024, Raymond seeks to dismiss
the causes of action against it in Plaintiff’s complaint for failure to serve
within three years of filing. The motion was initially set for hearing on May
30. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 16, and Raymond filed a reply on May
22. The Court heard the motion on May 30 and, at the close of argument,
continued the hearing to June 6.
In the second motion, filed on May 6, 2024, O’Neil seeks to dismiss
the causes of action against it in Plaintiff’s complaint for failure to serve
within three years of filing. The motion was initially (and remains) set for
hearing on June 6. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 21, and O’Neil filed a
reply on May 30.
Judicial Notice/ Objections to Evidence
Raymond requests that the Court take judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s complaint, the amendment to complaint naming Raymond as a defendant,
and proof of service on Raymond. The request, which is not opposed, is GRANTED.
Raymond also asserts two objections to the Declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel. The Court OVERRULES both objections.
Legal Standard
“The summons and complaint
shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action is
commenced against the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.210, subd. (a).) 
“(a) If service is not made in an action
within the time prescribed in this article: 
(1) The action shall not be further
prosecuted and no further proceedings shall be held in the action. 
(2) The action shall be dismissed by the
court on its own motion or on motion of any person interested in the action,
whether named as a party or not, after notice to the parties. 
(b) The requirements of this article are
mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as
expressly provided by statute.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.250.)
“In computing the time within which service
must be made pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time during
which any of the following conditions existed:
(a) The defendant was not amenable to the
process of the court.
(b) The prosecution of the action or
proceedings in the action was stayed and the stay affected service.
(c) The validity of service was the subject
of litigation by the parties.
(d) Service, for any other reason, was
impossible, impracticable, or futile due to causes beyond the plaintiff’s
control. Failure to discover relevant facts or evidence is not a cause beyond
the plaintiff’s control for the purpose of this subdivision.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.240.) 
Courts have clarified the relation between the
requirement to serve a defendant within three years under Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.210 and the “relation-back” doctrine for fictitiously
named defendants:  
“The
relation-back doctrine applicable to a fictitiously named defendant and the
requirement that a plaintiff serve the summons and complaint within three years
are independent concepts. Thus, even where the filing of an amended complaint
on a Doe defendant relates back to the filing of an original complaint, the
plaintiff must nonetheless identify and serve a Doe defendant with a summons
and complaint within three years of the commencement of the action.”  
(Higgins v. Super. Ct. (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 973, 982.) 
“In short, a plaintiff has three years from the
date of filing the complaint to identify and serve a Doe defendant.” (Inversiones
Papaluchi S.A.S. v. Super. Ct. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1061.)
Discussion
Plaintiff filed the complaint in August
2019. Plaintiff served O’Neil in February 2024 and Raymond in April 2024. This
is well beyond the three-year time period set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 583.210.  
Plaintiff does not argue that either O’Neil
or Raymond was not amenable to service, that the action was stayed, or that the
validity of service was subject to litigation during this period of more than
four years after the filing of the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 583.240,
subs. (a)-(c).)
Instead, Plaintiff argues that a different
defendant, CAPREF, provided false or misleading discovery responses in April
2021 that did not identify O’Neil and Raymond as potential defendants in this
action. (Ghermezian Decls., ¶¶ 14-16 & Exhs. 13-14.) Plaintiff asserts that
her counsel did not learn that O’Neil and Raymond were potentially responsible
for the injuries in this matter until some time in early 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 7-10.)
As a result, Plaintiff contends, service on O’Neil and Raymond was
“impracticable” or “futile.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.240, subd. (d).) In
the alternative, or in addition, Plaintiff contends that O’Neil and Raymond
should be equitably estopped from seeking dismissal because of the alleged
false or misleading discovery responses of CAPREF.
As a threshold matter, the Court has
reviewed the discovery responses from CAPREF that are at issue and does not
find them to be false or misleading, as Plaintiff charges. For example, in
April 2021, in response to Form Interrogatory No. 16.1, which asks the
responding party to identify other persons or entities that contributed to the
incident or Plaintiff’s injuries, CAPREF responded:
“Form
Interrogatories, Section 2. (d) Instructions to the Asking Party states: ‘The
interrogatories in section 16.0, Defendant’s Contention-Personal Injury, should
not be used until the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to conduct an
investigation or discovery of plaintiff’s injuries and damages.’ As such, this
contention interrogatory is premature at this stage in the litigation as
investigation and other discovery are ongoing. Furthermore, to at least some
extent, this interrogatory calls for speculation and seeks disclosure of expert
opinion information in advance of the statutory scheme. (See Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2034.210.) Responding Party reserves the right to assert such a contention
following further investigation, discovery and analysis.”
(Ghermezian Decls., Exh. 13, at p. 14.)
This response may not be Code compliant. It
appears to be well short of the “complete and straightforward” response required
by Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.220. But it does not appear to be false
or misleading. To the contrary, it is sufficient – particularly when coupled
with the affirmative defenses in CAPREF’s Answer (filed in March 2021) – to put
Plaintiff on notice that CAPREF may well contend that other persons or entity
were potentially responsible. Plaintiff at that point had sufficient time to bring
a motion to compel further responses from CAPREF, or to propound a supplemental
interrogatory to CAPREF, to obtain further information about other potentially
responsible parties. Plaintiff did not at any time do so.
Moreover, and separately and independently,
this is not a situation in which service on O’Neil or Raymond was at any
relevant time “impracticable” or “futile.” Rather, Plaintiff simply failed to
discover the relevant facts regarding potential defendants until 2024. Such a
failure to discover relevant facts or evidence “is not a cause beyond the
plaintiff’s control for the purpose of” Code of Civil Procedure section
583.240, subdivision (d). 
Nor is there any basis to apply estoppel
against O’Neil or Raymond. Even if CAPREF had provided false or misleading
discovery responses, there is no evidence that O’Neil or Raymond did anything wrong
or, for that matter, anything at all – much less anything that would estop O’Neil
or Raymond from asserting a statutory bar to prosecution of this case against either
of them. (See Tresway Aero, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (1971) 5 Cal.3d 431,
439-440; Brookview Condominium Owners’ Ass’n v. Heltzer
Enterprises-Brookview (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 502, 511-512.)
The Court has considered all of the
evidence in the record and all of the argument submitted by both sides and
concludes that none of the exclusions set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
583.240 applies here. Accordingly, the Court must dismiss the causes of action
asserted against O’Neil and Raymond in Plaintiff’s complaint. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 583.250, subd. (a)(2).) This is mandatory; the three-year period to
serve is “not subject to extension, excuse, or exception, except as expressly
provided by statute.” (Id., subd. (b).) The motion is granted.
Neither O’Neil nor Raymond seeks the dismissal
of any causes of action asserted against either one of them in any
cross-complaint in this action. Accordingly, the Court need not reach, and does
not reach, the issue of whether this ruling has any application to any or all
of the cross-complaints.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Raymond’s motion to dismiss.
The Court DISMISSES all causes of action asserted
against Raymond in Plaintiff’s complaint.
The Court GRANTS O’Neil’s motion to dismiss.
The Court DISMISSES all causes of action asserted
against O’Neil in Plaintiff’s complaint.
Moving parties are ordered to give notice.