  Case Number:  21STCV27987    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  T Cynthia
Hopes vs Costco Wholesale Corporation, et al.
Motion
to Compel the Production of Plaintiff’s Authorization for Release of
Plaintiff’s Records from the Employment Development Department (EDD) or to
Order EDD to Produce Records
Moving Party:                         Defendant
Costco Wholesale Corporation
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff
Cynthia Hopes
Tentative Ruling:                    Deny
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This is a negligence action related
to an alleged trip and fall at a Costco that occurred on November 19, 2020.
(Complaint ¶ 9.)  
 
            Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation
(“Defendant”) now moves to either (1) compel Plaintiff Cynthia Hopes
(“Plaintiff”) to sign an authorization to release her disability and insurance
records from the Employment Development Department (“EDD”); or (2) to compel
the EDD to produce Plaintiff’s disability and insurance records. 
 
            Plaintiff opposes and Defendant
replies. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
            According
to Defendant, Plaintiff is claiming, among others, a lower back injury in this
case. (Breuer Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant seeks Plaintiff’s EDD records because it
asserts these records will have information on a previous 2006 lower back injury.
Defendant first learned of the 2006 injury after subpoenaing Plaintiff’s
medical records. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) However, it appears that Plaintiff
also testified on February 2, 2023 that her lower back pain from the 2006
incident had subsided prior to the November 18, 2020 incident in this case. (Id.
¶ 10, Exh. B, Hopes Depo. 39:16-40:4.) Nevertheless, Defendant contends that
Plaintiff was still receiving treatment and pain management for the 2006 injury
as of October 23, 2020. (Id., Exh. G.) 
 
Defendant also asserts the
2006 injury resulted in a workers’ compensation claim and placed her on
disability as early as 2009. (Id. ¶ 8, 19, Exh. L.) As a result,
Defendant seeks the EDD insurance and disability records to obtain more
information about the 2006 injury, ostensibly to ascertain the extent of
Plaintiff’s damages in this case. 
 
            Consequently,
on December 18, 2023, Defendant served a subpoena on EDD for the records.
(Breuer Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. I.) The production date on the subpoena was January
16, 2024. (Id.) The proof of service shows the subpoena was served at a
drop box. (Id.) On January 22, 2024, the custodian of records for EDD
informed Defendant that it required a signed authorization from Plaintiff to
release the records. (Id. ¶ 15.) 
 
            According
to Defendant, Plaintiff will not agree to sign an authorization for the
records. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiff argues the records are confidential and cannot be released
under sections 1095 and 2714 of the Unemployment Insurance Code and section
1040 of the Evidence Code. 
 
Plaintiff also contends the discovery invades her right of privacy
because it seeks records from 2006 and notes that Defendant has already
subpoenaed Plaintiff’s prior health care providers.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues the motion is untimely. 
 
REPLY
 
            Defendant argues the records are not
protected by a privacy right because Plaintiff has not made the requisite
showing. Defendant also asserts that because the injury stems from 2006, due to
the passage of time, the records are no longer are available from the
providers. (Reply, 4.)
            
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored information,
and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent
who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the
necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a deposition
subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record,
the date objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480,
subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
II.        Discussion 
As an initial matter, Defendant does not
discuss authority allowing the Court to order Plaintiff to sign the
authorization under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1. Instead, section
1987.1 would only apply toward enforcing EDD’s compliance with the subpoena. 
Next, Defendant fails to show this motion was
timely filed because the subject subpoena has a production date of January 16,
2024, and this motion was not filed until November 5, 2024. Therefore, because
the motion was not made within 60 days after the production date, it is denied
as untimely. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board
of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
Furthermore,
the Court notes the motion is defective because Defendant did not provide
notice of this motion to EDD despite requesting that the Court order EDD to
comply with the subpoena.
However, the Court addresses Plaintiff’s remaining
arguments as follows. 
A.               
Unemployment
Insurance Code 
Plaintiff contends that various sections for
the Unemployment Insurance Code foreclose discovery on the EDD records. Section
2714 states the following:
“All medical records
of the department obtained under this part, except to the extent necessary for
the proper administration of this part, or as provided elsewhere in law shall
be confidential and shall not be published or be open to public inspection in
any manner revealing the identity of the claimant or family member, or the
nature or cause of his or her disability. Medical records that are disclosed
shall be disclosed only pursuant to Section 1095, and shall remain
confidential.”
(Unemp. Ins. Code, § 2714.) 
Section 1094 also states in relevant part
that “[e]xcept as otherwise specifically provided in this code, the information
obtained in the administration of this code is confidential, not open to the
public, and shall be for the exclusive use and information of the director in
discharge of his or her duties.” (Unemp. Ins. Code, § 1094, subd. (a).) Section
1095 lists the purposes for which that the director must permit the use of any
information in the director’s possession. (Unemp. Ins. Code, § 1095.) 
California Courts have recognized that section
1094 manifests “a clear legislative purpose to preserve the confidentiality of
information submitted to the Department of Employment” and creates a privilege.
(Crest Catering Co. v. Superior Court (1965) 62 Cal.2d 274, 277.) “A
waiver may occur (1) by an intentional relinquishment or (2) as ‘the result of
an act which, according to its natural import, is so inconsistent with an
intent to enforce the right as to induce a reasonable belief that such right
has been relinquished.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 278 [finding
waiver where there was an agreement to “furnish all necessary information upon
demand”].)  
Federal courts that have considered this
issue have found that a plaintiff may waive their privilege under section 1094
by bringing a lawsuit for disability discrimination.  (E.g., Chavez v.
Southwest Key Program, Inc. (S.D. Cal. Aug. 2, 2012) 2012 WL 12868258, at
pp. 2-4.)
Here, Plaintiff contends none of the
enumerated purposes under section 1095 allow for discovery in a civil lawsuit.
(Opp., 4.) In reply, Defendant fails to address this argument or discuss
contrary authority. While it appears the 2006 injury is at issue to the extent
it was exacerbated by Plaintiff’s fall in this case, Defendant has not shown
that Plaintiff’s privilege regarding the EDD records has been intentionally
relinquished, or is so inconsistent with this personal injury action,
particularly since Plaintiff asserts the records can be directly accessed through
the medical providers. (Opp., 6.)
Plaintiff also contends the records
cannot be released due to Evidence Code section 1040. Evidence Code
section 1040 states in relevant part: 
“A public entity has a privilege to refuse
to disclose official information, and to prevent another from
disclosing official information, if the privilege is claimed
by a person authorized by the public entity to do so and either of the
following apply: 
(1) Disclosure
is forbidden by an act of the Congress of the United States or a statute of
this state. 
(2) Disclosure
of the information is against the public interest because there is a necessity
for preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the
necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice; but no privilege may be
claimed under this paragraph if any person authorized to do so has consented
that the information be disclosed in the proceeding. In determining whether
disclosure of the information is against the public interest, the interest of
the public entity as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be
considered.”  
 
(Evid. Code, §
1040, subd. (b).)  
 
However, Plaintiff bears
the burden to show facts that the privilege applies and sets forth no evidence
in her supporting declaration. (See Department of Motor Vehicles v. Superior
Court (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 363, 370.) Furthermore, Plaintiff does not
explain how she can assert the privilege since the statute states the public
entity holds the privilege. 
B.        Privacy

Next, Plaintiff
argues the records will breach her right of privacy. 


“The state
Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const.,
art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the provision's central
concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the California Supreme Court]
established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation omitted.]
The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then
balance these competing considerations. [citation omitted].” (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 [citing Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35].)
 
The Court notes a
party’s medical records are privileged under the patient-physician privilege.
(See Hale v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1421, 1424.)¿ However,
where the party filing an action has arguably waived the privacy in their
protected or privileged information by filing a lawsuit, the waiver must be
narrowly construed such that discovery is only permitted of those matters
directly relevant to the party’s claims. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.)¿Notwithstanding, the party still has privacy rights as
to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the claimed injury.¿ (See id.
at 864; Heller v. Norcal Mutual Insurance Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30,
44.)¿¿   
 
Plaintiff asserts in
opposition that “Plaintiff does not allege that the injuries sustained in her
slip-and-fall incident of November 19, 2020 (the ‘Subject Incident’) are new
injuries; Plaintiff claims that the Subject Incident exacerbated and aggravated
her prior injuries.” (Opp., 3.) Based on this representation, the Court finds
that to the extent the records contain medical information on injured areas of
Plaintiff’s body that are at issue in this case, the right of privacy has been
waived. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy, given that Plaintiff is asserting that the fall in this
case exacerbated her prior injuries. 
 
            C.        Past Medical Records
 
Lastly, Plaintiff
appears to argue that the EDD records will not reveal any new information not
already discovered in this case because Defendant has received medical records
from Plaintiff’s prior medical providers. (Opp., 6.) According to Plaintiff,
Defendant has issued over thirty deposition subpoenas regarding Plaintiff’s
prior injuries. (Perry Decl. ¶ 3.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues Defendant
could obtain the information in the EDD records by subpoenaing the medical
providers themselves. In response, Defendant appears to argue that because of
the age of the records, the past providers may no longer possess them. (Reply,
4.) However, Defendant provides no evidence of this assertion.  
 
RULING
Defendant Costco Wholesale
Corporation’s Motion to Compel the Production of
Plaintiff’s Authorization for Release of Plaintiff’s Records from the
Employment Development Department (EDD) or to Order EDD to Produce Records is DENIED.
