  Case Number:  19STCV18736    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  FRANCISCO APOLINAR GRANDE, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JOSE BUADILIO MORALES CASTILLO, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV18736  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 31, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Francisco Apolinar Grande (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Jose Buadilio Morales Castillo (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision. The jury found in favor of Plaintiff and the Court entered judgment. (Min. Order, Match 17, 2023.) Plaintiff now moves to disqualify defense counsel Stephen A. Shapiro and his firm Law Offices of Stephen A. Shapiro (“Mr. Shapiro”) from representing Defendant at any post-judgment collection matters on the grounds that defense counsel purportedly breached an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing with Defendant. Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.  II. MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL Legal Standard The court has inherent power to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every manner pertaining thereto.  (CCP § 128(a)(5).)  This includes the power to disqualify counsel in appropriate cases. (In re Complex Asbestos Litig. (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 572, 575; In re Marriage of Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 562 [“Disqualification of counsel may be ordered ‘when necessary in furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).)’”].)  “… The paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The important right to counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.” (Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776, 791-792.)   “Motions to disqualify counsel are especially prone to tactical abuse because disqualification imposes heavy burdens on both the clients and courts: clients are deprived of their chosen counsel, litigation costs inevitably increase and delays inevitably occur. As a result, these motions must be examined ‘carefully to ensure that literalism does not deny the parties substantial justice.’ [Citation] At the same time, we recognize that disqualification of counsel is necessary under certain circumstances, to protect the integrity of our judicial process by enforcing counsel's duties of confidentiality and loyalty. [Citations.]”  (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 17, 23 fn. omitted.)   In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court should weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice; (2) the attorney's interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion; and (5) the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land & Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126.)  Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)  Discussion Plaintiff’s counsel’s dispute with defense counsel over defense counsel’s “belief that Castillo [Defendant] is judgment proof and Safeway’s refusal to pay the excess judgment” is not grounds to disqualify Mr. Shapiro from representing Defendant. Plaintiff’s counsel conjectures bad faith representation of Castillo due to this dispute over payment. Here, Defendant has the right to be represented by his counsel of choice, and there is no evidence that Defendant is not aware of his legal options, such that there has been any ethical breach or abuse for disqualification. Lastly, the Court declines to make any findings regarding the Judgment Debtor’s Examination scheduled for July 14, 2024 on a motion to disqualify. Defendant's request that the hearing be taken off-calendar is denied.   III. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify Mr. Shapiro and his firm is DENIED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 30th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   