  Case Number:  24STCV05665    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
STG Port Services, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV05665




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Cargomatic, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants STG Port
Services, LLC and STG Cartage, LLC
Responding Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Cargomatic, Inc.
 
T/R:      STG’S DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF
ACTION IS SUSTAINED.
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE REMAINING CAUSES OF
ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
CARGOMATIC TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND
AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. STG TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
STG TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs STG Port
Services, LLC and STG Cartage, LLC sued Defendant Cargomatic, Inc., asserting
causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) quantum meruit; (3) account
stated; and (4) open book account. STG alleges Cargomatic contracted for STG’s
cargo handling services. STG alleges Cargomatic owes more than $1 million to
STG for services provided by STG.
 
On August 8, 2024, Cargomatic, Inc.
filed the operative first amended cross-complaint against STG Port Services,
LLC and STG Cartage, LLC, asserting causes of action for (1) fraud; (2)
negligent misrepresentation; (3) breach of contract; (4) negligence; (5) unjust
enrichment; (6) indemnity; and (7) UCL violations. Cargomatic alleges STG
failed to perform its services adequately.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First and
Second Causes of Action for Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
STG demurs to the first and second causes of
action for fraud on the grounds that Cargomatic has failed to allege the claims
with the requisite specificity. Cargomatic alleges that in a series of emails
STG’s predecessor, XPO Logistics
Port Services, LLC, misrepresented its capacity to make timely moves of
substantial amounts of time sensitive cargo resulting in shipments failing to
make it to their destinations by Christmas and Valentine’s Day. Cargomatic
alleges the untimely shipments caused Cargomatic’s client, Dollar Tree, to lose
“millions” and Dollar Tree refused to pay Cargomatic. This is sufficient to
allege causes of action for fraud. 
The
demurrer to the first and second causes of action is OVERRULED.
B. Third Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract and Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
“The
standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
STG
asserts that the third cause of action fails because Cargomatic has not
adequately pleaded the terms of the contract. This is contrary to the
allegations in the FACC. STG alleges several terms of the parties’ oral
contact, including that XPO would pick up and transport containers from the Los
Angeles and Long Beach Ports, transload and store containers as needed,
transport the relevant cargo to distribution centers and then to end locations
of Cargomatic’s customer, and timely return the empty containers to the Port
facilities, so as not to incur demurrage or detention charges. Cargomatic
alleges STG breached these terms in bad faith. This is sufficient to allege a
cause of action for breach of contract.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
C. Fourth Cause
of Action for Negligence
STG
demurs to the fourth cause of action for negligence on the ground that it is
barred by the economic loss rule. The Court agrees. There is no recovery in
tort for “negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial
harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo
Bank (2022) Cal.5th 905, 922.) Cargomatic alleges only economic losses.
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
D. Fifth Cause of
Action for Unjust Enrichment
STG
asserts that the fifth cause of action fails because it is not a recognized
cause of action in California. Unjust enrichment is an equitable remedy
doctrine. Cargomatic may allege STG was unjustly enriched. 
The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.
E. Sixth Cause of
Action for Indemnity
STG
asserts Cargomatic has failed to allege a claim for express or implied
indemnity. Cargomatic alleges STG must indemnify Cargomatic under the express
terms of STG’s “Terms and Conditions.” This is sufficient to allege a claim for
indemnity.
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
OVERRULED.
F. Seventh Cause of Action for UCL Violations
California Business and Professions Code
section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010)
50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) Cargomatic has sufficiently alleged fraud and as a result
has sufficiently alleged a claim for UCL violations.
The demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is OVERRULED.
G. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
STG moves to strike the claims for punitive damages and restitution. As
Cargomatic has alleged a claim for fraud, Cargomatic has alleged entitlement to
punitive damages. Cargomatic may request restitution as a remedy. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 