 Case Number:  23SMCV05960    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05960




MOTION


Motion for a Preliminary Injunction




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Thomas Walter Trimborn and Paula Jane Trimborn,
  co-trustees of the Trimborn Community Property Trust U/D/T July 12, 2001




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant The Stephen S. Wise Temple



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a property dispute of an approximate 1,000
square foot strip of land along the border of the adjacent properties of Plaintiffs
Thomas Walter Trimborn and Paula Jane Trimborn, co-trustees of the Trimborn
Community Property Trust U/D/T July 12, 2001 (“Plaintiffs” or “Trimborn”) and
Defendant The Stephen S. Wise Temple (“Defendant” or “Temple.”)  Plaintiffs’ property is a single family
dwelling, and Defendant’s property is a Jewish synagogue, which includes an
elementary school and an early-learning school for young children.  (Opposition at pp. 5.) 
 
Since the 1980’s, Plaintiffs contend a wall fence has been erected
separating the two properties.  Plaintiffs
allege their understanding has always been that the wall fence demarcated the
property line between the two properties. 
Subsequently, Plaintiffs improved upon their property on their side of
the wall fence, including adding a pool, the equipment for which currently sits
directly next to the wall fence, along with several mature trees and a playset.  
 
Defendant contends the actual property line extends a short distance
beyond the fence in the direction of Plaintiffs’ property.  Thus, according to Defendants, the existing
wall-fence and Plaintiff’s pool equipment, which abuts the existing wall-fence,
are actually on Defendants’ property.
 
In 2022, Defendant applied for permits to upgrade its facilities,
including removing and replacing the existing wall-fence with improved security
features, which the City granted, following a virtual public hearing.  Plaintiffs did not attend the hearing or
otherwise object to proposed improvements.
 
The parties attempted to informally resolve the dispute between them,
but discussions broke down and Plaintiffs filed a verified complaint for (1) Quiet
Title – Implied Easement; (2) Quiet Title – Equitable Easement; (3) Quiet Title
– Easement by Estoppel; (4) Quiet Title – Prescriptive Easement; and (5)
Injunctive Relief, under the theory that it has an easement over the disputed
area.
 
Plaintiffs moved for a temporary restraining order and for the court
to set an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue restraining
Defendant (and its agents) “from removing the Wall Fence, stepping foot on
and/or removing or damaging [Plaintiffs’] improvements in the Disputed Area.”  The Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for a
temporary restraining order, and set an Order to Show Cause (“OSC” re
Preliminary Injunction.
 
Defendant opposes the preliminary injunction and Plaintiffs reply.
 
            
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 527, subdivision (a), “[a]
preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) “The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a
trial.” (Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316.)
The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested
status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s
Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare
v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v.
Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.)
 
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue
a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the
merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely
to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is
likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 526, subd. (a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm between the parties “involves
consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of
irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain,
supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 867.)
 
“The decision to grant a preliminary injunction rests in the sound
discretion of the trial court . . . before the trial court can exercise its
discretion the applicant must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to
injunctive relief. The applicant must demonstrate a real threat of immediate
and irreparable injury.” (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of Cal.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138.) “[A]n injunction is an unusual or
extraordinary equitable remedy which will not be granted if the remedy at law (usually
damages) will adequately compensate the injured plaintiff,” and the party
seeking injunctive relief bears the burden to prove its absence. (Department
of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1564-1565.)
            
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to the parties’ evidentiary objections:
 
            Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections to Marcus Declaration
 
1.     
Sustained
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
4.     
Overruled
5.     
Overruled
 
            Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections to Plaintiffs’ Verified Complaint
 
1.     
Overruled
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
4.     
Overruled
5.     
Overruled
6.     
Overruled
7.     
Overruled
8.     
Overruled
9.     
Overruled
10. 
Overruled
11. 
Overruled
12. 
Overruled
13. 
Overruled
14. 
Overruled
15. 
Overruled
16. 
Overruled
17. 
Overruled
18. 
Overruled
19. 
Sustained
20. 
Overruled
21. 
Overruled
22. 
Overruled
23.  Overruled
 
            Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary
Objections to Stafford Declaration
 
1.     
Overruled
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
            
            Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary
Objections to Spira-Cushnir Declaration
 
1.     
Overruled
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant’s Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests the Court to take judicial notice of (1) the City’s Notice of Public
Hearing regarding Defendant’s proposed construction project, set for February
2, 2022; and (2) the City’s approval letter for the project, dated June 1,
2022.
 
Evidence
Code section 452, subdivision (b) permits the Court to take judicial notice of
“[r]egulations and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of
the United States or any public entity in the United States.”  Similarly, subdivision (c) permits the Court
to take judicial notice of “[o]fficial acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.”  Here, the exhibits of which
Defendant requests the Court to take judicial notice are both regulations
enacted by and official acts of the City of Santa Monica.  Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s
request for judicial notice as to both exhibits.
 
            Plaintiffs’ Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court to take judicial notice of (A) Defendant’s verified answer to
the complaint, dated January 16, 2024; (B) Defendant’s cross-complaint; and (C)
The City of Thousand Oaks Municipal Code 46.01-46.02.
 
With
respect to exhibits A and B, judicial
notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the verified answer and
cross-complaint are part of the Court’s record for this case, the Court may
take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the verified answer and
cross-complaint filed in this matter as a court record, but not the truth of the
allegations contained therein.  The Court
may, however, weigh the allegations contained in the verified answer as
evidence, but may not judicially notice them as true as a matter of law.
 
As
for the City of Thousand Oaks Municipal Code 46.01-46.02, the Court may properly take judicial notice
of “[r]egulations and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority
of the United States or any public entity in the United States.”  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (b).)  In particular, local ordinances are properly
the subject of judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(b).  (Martin v. City of Corning (1972)
25 Cal.App.3d 165, 167, fn. 1.)
 
            Therefore, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to the City of Thousand Oaks
Municipal Code 46.01-46.02.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            “The trial courts consider two
interrelated questions in deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction:
1) are the plaintiffs likely to suffer greater injury from a denial of the
injunction than the defendants are likely to suffer from its grant; and 2) is
there a reasonable probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the merits.”  (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38
Cal.3d 199, 206.)
 
1.     
IMMEDIATE AND IRREPARABLE HARM
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, an injunction may be granted “[w]hen it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(2).) The
threat of irreparable harm must be imminent as opposed to a mere possibility of
harm sometime in the future. “An injunction cannot issue in a vacuum based on
the proponents’ fears about something that may happen in the future. It must be
supported by actual evidence that there is a realistic prospect that the party
enjoined intends to engage in the prohibited activity.” (Korean Philadelphia
Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069,
1084.) Plaintiffs need not wait until they have suffered actual harm before
applying for an injunction, however, they may seek injunctive relief against
threatened infringement of their rights. (Maria P. v. Riles (1987) 43
Cal.3d 1281, 1292.)
 
            As for irreparable harm, Plaintiffs
contend:
 
21. If Trimborns could not use the Disputed Area,
there would be irreparable harm to Plaintiffs in that Plaintiffs would forever
lose the privacy buffer between the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel,
possibly lose Trimborns' home setback compliance, lose use of the Trimborn pool
equipment, and lose use of landscaping. If Wise removes the Wall Fence, because
of the pool on the Trimborn Parcel there would be no barrier between the Wise
Parcel children attending school at their facility and the pool, thereby
creating an imminent danger and unnecessary Trimborn exposure. 
 
22. Based on information and belief, it is hereby
alleged that Defendants and the Wise Parcel would suffer little or no harm with
continued Trimborns' Disputed Area use and occupation. As mentioned above, it
is alleged that Wise does not intend to improve or occupy the Disputed Area.
Based on information and belief, it is alleged that Wise always understood the
property line was generally demarcated by the Wall Fence, just as Trimborn
understood.
 
(Complaint ¶¶
21-22.)
 
            Defendants contend:
 
7. If prevented from reconstructing the wall with
security features, the Temple would suffer significant hardship and damages.
This would include, but not be limited to, a delay in the construction of this
security wall portion of the Project which will result in additional direct
construction costs of at least $430,000. A delay in construction will also
create impacts to the Temple's daily operations because if the wall is not
built as part of the current construction 
sequencing, when it is eventually built, the Temple would have to
accommodate construction yet  again. This
means that the Temple would have to give up its small parking lot for staging,
and  would have to rent offsite parking
and use shuttle vans to bring people onto campus. A delay of  this construction would also impact programs
at the Aaron Milken Center because we would be without use of the play yard
during eventual construction of the security wall and our licensing
requirements under the California Department of Social Services Community Care
licensing will limit programs allowed during construction. Even if we were able
to construct the wall during the summer months, because the impacted areas
would be at their lowest use, we would have to limit or postpone any summer
programs including the Wise Camp resulting in the loss of hundreds of thousands
of dollars.
 
8. Granting Plaintiffs' requested relief may also
result in potential danger to the schoolchildren and anyone else who uses the
campus, as the Temple would be unable to install its new reinforced fence and
wall with security features. This is particularly problematic given the ongoing
rise in antisemitic attacks, as safety on our campus is a matter of acute
concern.
 
(Spira-Cushnir
Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
            Plaintiffs have demonstrated several
immediate and irreparable harms that would be done to their property if the
requested preliminary injunction is denied, including permanent destruction of
the improvements they made on the disputed property, such as trees, pool
equipment, and playground equipment, potential setback violations on their home
structure, as well as potential immediate danger to the school children
attending Defendant’s schools, who will be directly exposed to Plaintiffs’ pool
without the existing fencing.[1]
 
By contrast, Defendant has not demonstrated any such immediate and
irreparable harm.  Defendant has
primarily demonstrated pecuniary harms related to the delay in constructing a
new wall fence and the providing offsite parking during the delayed
construction.  An injunction may be granted only “[w]hen
pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 526, subd. (a)(4).)  “[I]f monetary damages afford adequate relief
and are not extremely difficult to ascertain, an injunction cannot be granted.”  (Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler
Motors Corp. (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 306.)
 
Moreover,
while the Court is sensitive to the ongoing rise in antisemitic attacks, a
delay in improving the existing wall security will not pose an immediate or
imminent threat or other irreparable harm to the children currently attending
Defendant’s schools.  
 
Ultimately,
the harm to Plaintiffs far outweighs the harm (if any) to Defendant.
 
2.     
REASONABLE PROBABILITY OF SUCCESS ON THE
MERITS
 
A
preliminary injunction may not issue unless it is “reasonably probable that the
moving party will prevail on the merits. (San Francisco Newspaper Printing
Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442; see Costa
Mesa City Employees’ Association v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 298, 309 [no injunction may issue unless there is at least “some
possibility” of success].)
 
Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs are not likely to prevail on the merits
because (1) Plaintiffs cannot quiet title to the disputed area as against Defendant,
as the legal title owner, based on an alleged equitable easement; (2) the
requested preliminary injunction exceeds the relief available; (3) Plaintiffs
fail to allege the required elements to establish an implied easement, an
equitable easement, an easement by estoppel, or a prescriptive easement; and
(5) injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause of action.
 
Quiet Title to Equitable Easement
 
Defendant
points out that to bring an action for quiet title, a plaintiff must
demonstrate a legal interest in the property. 
Defendant cites to two cases standing for the proposition that a quiet
title action cannot stand by a plaintiff claiming an equitable interest in
property, as compared to the defendant legal owner of property.  Defendant’s cases are distinguishable.
 
In Lewis
v. Superior Court, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant purchased the
real property in question with money stolen from plaintiff.  The court held:  “because whatever interest it might have is
only equitable, and the holder of equitable title cannot maintain a quiet title
action against the legal owner.”  (Lewis
v. Superior Court (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1850, 1866.)
 
Similarly,
in Stafford v. Ballinger, the owner of real property offered to sell the
property to plaintiff, and accepted plaintiff’s down payment, with the balance
due five days thereafter.  Two and a half
weeks later, having not received the balance, the owner repudiated the sale, but
refused to return the plaintiff’s down payment. 
The court held, that at most, plaintiff “may at one time have acquired
some equitable rights” but such equitable interest was insufficient to maintain
a quiet title action against the owner of the legal title.  (Stafford v. Ballinger (1962) 199
Cal.App.2d 289, 294-295.)  
 
By
contrast, here, Plaintiffs do not seek to quiet title solely on the basis of
some financial interest in the disputed area. 
Rather, Plaintiffs seek to quiet title to an easement, based on
Plaintiffs’ alleged possession and use of the disputed area.  Such actions are generally proper.  (See, e.g., Linthicum v. Butterfield
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 259 [quieting title to easement in favor of neighbors
and against owner was proper].)
 
Requested Preliminary Injunction Exceeds Available Relief
 
Defendant
next contends that the preliminary injunction should be denied because Plaintiffs’
requested relief that Defendant be enjoined from “stepping foot” on or
“touching” the disputed area exceeds the potential relief available for an
easement.  
 
In Raab
v. Casper, the court explained that an “easement” limits the uses available
to the grantor, whereas an “estate” grants ownership and “exclusive occupation
of a portion of the earth’s surface.”  (Raab
v. Casper (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 866, 876.) 
Thus, if an interest which purports to be an “exclusive easement” is
tantamount to an “estate,” the plaintiff must establish the elements of adverse
possession, not of prescriptive easement. 
(Id. at p. 877.)
 
As
the Court of Appeal clarified in Mehdizadeh v. Mincer, “[a]n exclusive
prescriptive easement is … a very unusual interest in land” typically reserved
for utilities, where the area must be secured to prevent interference with or
contamination of public utilities, in the interest of public health and
safety.  (Mehdizadeh v. Mincer
(1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1296, 1306-1308.)  
 
The notion of an exclusive prescriptive easement,
which as a practical matter completely prohibits the true owner from using his
land, has no application to a simple backyard dispute . . . .  An easement, after all, is merely the right to
use the land of another for a specific purpose—most often, the right to cross
the land of another. An easement acquired by prescription is one acquired by
adverse use for a certain period. An easement, however, is not an ownership
interest, and certainly does not amount to a fee simple estate.
 
(Ibid.)
 
Because
the easement at issue is not alleged to involve any public utilities or other
overriding public health and safety implications,[2]
Plaintiffs are not reasonably likely to prevail in ultimately obtaining a
permanent injunction prohibiting Defendant from any and all access to the disputed
area, as that would be tantamount to an estate. 
However, a permanent injunction could potentially issue enjoining
Defendant from removing and replacing the existing Wall Fence or “removing or
damaging the improvements in the Disputed Area.”  Moreover, while the rights of the respective
parties are in dispute, the requested preliminary injunction will maintain the
status quo, where Plaintiffs use and maintain the disputed area as part of
their private backyard, and Defendant does not make changes to the wall, step
foot on the disputed area, or destroy Plaintiffs’ improvements to the disputed
area.
 
Therefore,
the scope of Plaintiffs’ requested injunction does not preclude relief.
 
Elements of Each Claim
 
Implied
Easement
 
Civil
Code section 1104 provides, “A transfer of real property passes all easements
attached thereto, and creates in favor thereof an easement to use other real
property of the person whose estate is transferred in the same manner and to
the same extent as such property was obviously and permanently used by the
person whose estate is transferred, for the benefit thereof, at the time when
the transfer was agreed upon or completed.” 

 
“Thus,
an easement will be implied when, at the time of conveyance of property, the
following conditions exist: 1) the owner of property conveys or transfers a
portion of that property to another; 2) the owner's prior existing use of the
property was of a nature that the parties must have intended or believed that
the use would continue; meaning that the existing use must either have been
known to the grantor and the grantee, or have been so obviously and apparently
permanent that the parties should have known of the use; and 3) the easement is
reasonably necessary to the use and benefit of the quasi-dominant tenement.”  (Thorstrom v. Thorstrom (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1406, 1420.)
 
The
verified Complaint provides:
 
5. Since about 1966, Wise holds title to and owns
real property [adjacent to and to the west of the Trimborn Parcel] known as
15500 Stephen S. Wise Drive, Los Angeles County, California, APN 4378-001-008
("Wise Parcel"). […]
 
8. Based on information and belief, Trimborn
alleges that in about the mid-1980s Wise built a wall and fence separating the
Wise Parcel and the Trimborn Parcel ("Wall Fence"), it remains in its
existing location.
 
[…]
 
11. Since Trimborn acquired the Trimborn Parcel,
(i) Trimborn understood and believed that the Wall Fence demarcated the lot
line separating the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel and the Trimborn Parcel
included the Disputed Area, and (ii) Trimborn maintained, irrigated,
landscaped, occupied and used the Disputed Area.
 
16. Trimborn, their agents, tenants,
representatives, predecessors and invitees have and do continuously use,
improve, maintain, irrigate and landscape the Disputed Area. The Disputed Area
use was and is of a nature that Trimborn (and Wise) intended or believed that
the use of the Disputed Area would continue indefinitely and be permanent. 
 
17. The Disputed Area and the Wall Fence is
necessary as a privacy buffer between the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel,
may be necessary for Trimborn home setback requirements, use of the Trimborn
pool equipment, and use of hard and soft landscaping for the Trimborn family
home. 
 
18. Trimborn seeks to quiet title to the Disputed
Area and the Wall Fence based on implied easement rights as of the date of
filing this Complaint.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 5,
8, 11, 16-18.)  Plaintiff has also
provided the Declaration of Jeffrey L. Marcus (“Marcus Decl.”), but it does not
provide any additional facts that the properties, or disputed portions of the
relevant properties were ever under common ownership, that Plaintiffs or
Plaintiffs’ predecessor-in-interest conveyed part of the property to Defendant
or Defendant’s predecessor-in-interest, or that an easement was ever intended
to be retained for the benefit of Plaintiffs or Plaintiffs’ predecessor-in-interest.
 
            Therefore, Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits of the first cause of
action.
 
            Equitable Easement
 
            The elements to establish an equitable
easement are (1) the encroacher is innocent, such that the encroachment must
not be willful or negligent; (2) the burdened landowner must not suffer
irreparable injury by way of the encroachment; and (3) the hardship to the
encroacher must be disproportionate to the hardship caused by the encroachment.  (Hansen v. Sandridge Partners, L.P.
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1020, 1027-1028 (hereafter Hansen).)
 
            With regard to the first element, an
equitable easement may be permitted when an encroaching party is negligent if
the landowner was also negligent in creating the encroachment.  (Hansen, supra, 22 Cal.App.5th at p.
1031.)  Here, Plaintiffs contend:
 
8. Based on information and belief, Trimborn
alleges that in about the mid-1980s Wise built a wall and fence separating the
Wise Parcel and the Trimborn Parcel ("Wall Fence"), it remains in its
existing location. 
 
9. The Trimborns always used and occupied the
area on the side yard of their home to the Wall Fence. The Disputed Area
(defined below) includes pool equipment, playground equipment and hard and soft
landscaping ("Improvements"). Currently, a tenant occupies the Trimborn
Parcel and based on information and belief, the tenant uses the Disputed Area. 
 
10. Attached as Exhibit "3" is a survey
map setting forth the "Disputed Area", the "Wall Fence",
the property line, the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel. The Disputed Area
measures approximately 1,000 square feet and includes the Wall Fence. 
 
11. Since Trimborn acquired the Trimborn Parcel,
(i) Trimborn understood and believed that the Wall Fence demarcated the lot
line separating the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel and the Trimborn Parcel
included the Disputed Area, and (ii) Trimborn maintained, irrigated,
landscaped, occupied and used the Disputed Area.
 
[…]
 
20. For decades, Trimborn has continuously used,
improved, maintained, irrigated and landscaped the Disputed Area. At all
relevant times, Plaintiffs had a belief and understanding that they had a right
to use the Disputed Area adverse to that of Defendants. Up until 2023, Wise did
not voice opposition to such Disputed Area use. 
 
(Complaint ¶¶
8-11; 20.)  
 
While
Plaintiffs may or may not have been negligent in encroaching on the disputed
area by planting trees and installing pool equipment and a playground without confirming
where the boundary line between the properties was, (see Hansen, supra,
22 Cal.App.5th at p. 1031 [“Here, the Hansens were negligent in encroaching on
the Disputed Land by planting pistachio trees without confirming they owned the
land in light of their knowledge that a lot line adjustment was needed.”]), Defendant
may also have been negligent in building the wall fence in the location it did
and not objecting to Plaintiffs’ improvements in the disputed area.  (See Complaint ¶ 8 [“Based on information and
belief, Trimborn alleges that in about the mid-1980s Wise built a wall and
fence separating the Wise Parcel and the Trimborn Parcel[;]” ¶ 25 [“It is
alleged, based on information and belief, that Wise knew for many decades that
the Disputed Area had been used, maintained, irrigated, hardscaped and
landscaped by Trimborn and the Disputed Area and Wall Fence provides Trimborn
with a privacy buffer and security for the Trimborn pool.”])
 
As
for irreparable harm, as discussed above, Plaintiffs have demonstrated they
will suffer irreparable harm that far exceeds that Defendant will suffer (if
any).  
 
Thus,
Plaintiffs have demonstrated a reasonable probability of prevailing on the
merits of the second cause of action.[3]
 
            Bond
 
            Defendant requests the Court require
Plaintiffs post a bond in the amount of $600,000 to compensate Defendant for
damages sustained by the injunction.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 529, subdivision (a) provides:
 
On granting an injunction, the court or judge
must require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the
applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.
Within five days after the service of the injunction, the person enjoined may
object to the undertaking. If the court determines that the applicant’s
undertaking is insufficient and a sufficient undertaking is not filed within
the time required by statute, the order granting the injunction must be
dissolved.
 
            Plaintiffs do not address
Defendant’s request for an undertaking. 
However, Defendant has only provided evidence that it will experience
increased construction costs in the amount of $430,000 as a result of the delay.  (Spira-Cushnir Decl. ¶ 7; Stafford Decl. ¶ 7
& Ex. 4.)  Although Defendant
contends it will also incur increased costs to relocate parking during the
delayed construction, it has not provided any evidence of those estimated
costs.
 
            Therefore, the Court requires
Plaintiffs to post an undertaking in the amount of $430,000.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary
injunction and enjoins Defendant from removing the existing Wall Fence,
stepping foot in or occupying the Disputed Area, or removing or damaging the
Improvements to the Disputed Area during the pendency of this lawsuit.
 
The Court further requires Plaintiffs to post an undertaking in the
amount of $430,000.
 
Plaintiffs shall prepare and lodge an Order in conformance with the
Court’s ruling on or before February 6, 2024. 
Further, the Court orders Plaintiffs to provide notice of the Court’s
ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 30, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


