  Case Number:  23SMCV05145    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05145




MOTION


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants DRM Marketing International, LLC and Derek
  White




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Scott Reiter



 
MOTION
 
Defendants DRM Marketing International, LLC and Derek White
(“Defendants”) demur to the first cause of action alleged in Plaintiff Scott
Reiter’s (“Plaintiff”) First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for Breach of Written
Contract for failure to state a cause of action and uncertainty, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRERS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of
written contract is uncertain because Plaintiff pleads a second cause of action
for breach of oral contract in the alternative. 
Defendants do not demonstrate that any portions of the FAC is so bad
that they cannot reasonably determine what issues much be admitted or denied,
or what claims are directed against them. 
Moreover, at this stage of the litigation, Plaintiff may “plead in the alternative and make
inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein v.
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer to the first
cause of action on the basis of uncertainty. 

 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges, in
relevant portion:
 
8. On or around March 10, 2014, Plaintiff and
Defendants’ predecessor in interest, Hoorsenbuhs, Inc., entered into that AIR
Commercial Real Estate Association Standard Industrial/Commercial Single-Tenant
Lease –Net for the Main Property (“Main Lease”). A true and correct copy of the
Main Lease is attached hereto as Exhibit A. 
 
9. The term of the Main Lease was from April 1,
2014 to March 31, 2019. On or around March 2019 and before the Main Lease
expired, Defendants took over possession of the Main Property, assumed the Main
Lease, and began paying rent. 
 
10. Defendants remained in possession of the Main
Property after the Main Lease expired, and thereafter became month-to-month
tenants subject to the terms of the Main Lease. Defendants defaulted under the
Main Lease and eventually vacated the Main Property on September 15, 2023,
after they were served with a 3 Days’ Notice to Pay or Quit and failed to
timely pay within three days of being served with the notice. 
 
[…]
 
26. Defendants assumed the Main Lease and became
tenants of the Main Property. 
 
27. Plaintiff did all, or substantially all, of
the significant things that the Main Lease required it to do. 
 
28. Defendants materially breached the Main
Lease, by, among other things, failing to pay multiple months of rent, failing
to pay real property taxes owed for the Main Property, failing to properly and
adequately maintain the Main Property, and damaging the Main Property. As a
direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breaches of the Main Lease,
Plaintiff has been damaged in a sum according to proof, but in the minimum
amount and exceeding $25,001.00. 
 
29. Section 31 of the Main Lease provides, in
relevant part, that “[i]f any party or Broker brings an action or proceeding
involving the Premises whether founded in tort, contract or equity, or to
declare rights hereunder, the Prevailing Party (as hereafter defined) in any
such proceeding, action, or appeal thereon, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorneys’ fees.”
 
(FAC
¶¶ 8-10; 26-29.)  In addition, Plaintiff describes
various specific requirements of the written agreement and breaches by
Defendants.  (See FAC ¶¶ 11-17.)  Thus, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded a
cause of action for breach of written contract.
 
            Defendants contend that Plaintiff
has not adequately pleaded a cause of action for breach of written contract,
because the only contract attached to the FAC is the original lease agreement,
which expired on March 31, 2019, before Defendants’ alleged breaches occurred,
not the assignment agreement.  
 
            With regard to the proper pleading standard for a breach of written
contract, “[t]he correct rule is that a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of
the contract rather than its precise language.” 
(Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
394, 402.)  In Miles, the Court of
Appeal noted “where a written instrument is the foundation of a cause of action
it may be pleaded in haec verba by attaching a copy as an
exhibit and incorporating it by proper reference.”   (Ibid., emphasis in original &
quoting Wise v. Southern Pacific Co. (1963) 223 Cal.App.2d 50, overruled on other
grounds.)  Thus, attaching a copy
of the written agreement and/or pleading the contents of a written agreement
verbatim are two ways of pleading a breach of contract claim, but not “the exclusive
means of pleading a contract.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis in original). To wit, a “plaintiff's failure either to attach or
to set out verbatim the terms of the contract was not fatal to his breach of
contract cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  “A [written] contract should be pleaded
either in haec verba or according to its legal intendment and effect.”  (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 635, 640 [cleaned up].)  
 
Moreover, whether the written
agreement at issue in fact expired prior to Defendants’ alleged breach or
was extended by virtue of the assumption, is a factual issue to be determined
at later stages of the litigation.  For
purposes of withstanding a demurrer, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient “ultimate
facts” at this stage of the litigation.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the First Cause of Action.  
 
The Court orders Defendants to file an Answer to the First Amended
Complaint on or before February 13, 2024. 

 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 30, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


