 Case Number:  23AHCV01338    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



INCENTAX, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MARTINI
   AKPOVI PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01338
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

January
   29, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 12,
 2023, this action was filed by Incentax,
 LLC (“Plaintiff”) against Martini
 Akpovi Partners, LLP (“Martini LLP”), Christopher Passmore (“Passmore”), Steve
 Martini (“Martini”), and Withum Smith + Brown, PC (“Withum”). Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) aiding and
abetting breach of fiduciary duty, (3) breach of contract, (4) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (5) intentional interference
with contractual relations (6) unjust enrichment, (7) gross negligence, (8)
intentional interference with prospective economic relationships. (9) negligent
interference with prospective economic relationships. 
Plaintiff alleges that it formed a
joint venture with Martini LLP, Passmore, and Steve Martini to provide tax
incentive services through a limited liability company, MAP Tax Credits, LLC
(“MTC”). Plaintiff alleges that Passmore, Martini, and Martini LLP used the
success of MTC to sell Martini LLP to Withum, which sale effectively shut down
the joint venture. 
On
August
 14, 2023, Martini LLP, Passmore, and Martini (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion to compel arbitration and stay action. 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief and objection on November
 1, 2023. 
Defendants
filed a reply brief on November 7, 2023. 
On November 15, 2023, after oral
argument, the Court continued the hearing on this motion so that the parties
could file supplemental briefs. Defendants filed a supplemental brief on
December 6, 2023; Plaintiff filed one on January 10, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties
have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see
also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Validity
and Scope of the Arbitration Agreement 
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586.) 
MTC’s Operating Agreement provides the
following: 
14.10 Arbitration. Except as otherwise
provided in this Agreement, any controversy between the Members or Managers
arising out of this Agreement shall be submitted before a retired judge or
appellate justice affiliated with JAMS for arbitration in Los Angeles, California.
The costs of the arbitration, including any JAMS administration fee, the
arbitrator's fee, and costs for the use of facilities during the hearings,
shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration. Attorneys' fees may
be awarded to the prevailing or most prevailing party at the discretion of the
arbitrator. The provisions of Sections 1282.6, 1283, and 1283.05 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure apply to the arbitration. The arbitrator
shall not have any power to alter, amend, modify or change any of the terms of this
Agreement nor to grant any remedy which is either prohibited by the terms of this
Agreement, or not available in a court of law." 
 
(Lanson
Dec., Exh. 1.) 
          Defendants
argue that the arbitrator must decide whether Plaintiff’s claims are arbitrable
because there is a delegation clause. While courts often decide issues of
“arbitrability,” the “'parties can agree to arbitrate ‘gateway’ questions of ‘arbitrability,’
such as whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement
covers a particular controversy.” (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 880, 891, quoting Rent–A–Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson
(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69.) To establish this exception, it must be shown by
“clear and unmistakable” evidence that the parties intended to delegate the
issue to the arbitrator. (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 68, 70, fn.1; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds (2002) 537
U.S. 79, 84; see also Peleg v. Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.
App. 4th 1425, 1439-1445.) 
          Here, the
arbitration provision states any controversy between members or managers
arising out of the Operating Agreement will be submitted “before a retired
judge or appelate [sic] justice affiliated with JAMS for arbitration in Los
Angeles, California.” In turn, Rule 11(b) of JAMS Comprehensive Arbitration
Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) states that “Jurisdictional and arbitrability
disputes, including disputes over the formation, existence, validity,
interpretation or scope of the agreement under which Arbitration is sought, and
who are proper Parties to the Arbitration, shall be submitted to and ruled on
by the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator has the authority to determine jurisdiction
and arbitrability issues as a preliminary matter.”
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
there is no “clear and unmistakable” delegation of arbitrability to the
arbitrator. Plaintiff claims that the arbitration agreement only states that
the arbitrator would be affiliated with JAMS and that JAMS would be the
arbitral provider, not that the arbitration would be conducted in accordance
with JAMS’ Rules. (Opp., p. 11.) In its supplemental opposition, Plaintiff
emphasizes that the Operating Agreement does not state that the arbitration
will be conducted in accordance with, pursuant to, or under JAMS Rules. (Plfts.
Supp. Brief, pp. 8-9.) Plaintiff argues that the specific reference to the JAMS-affiliated
arbitrator and the JAMS administration fee show that if the parties intended
for JAMS’ rules to apply, that it would also be explicitly referred to. (Id.)

This ambiguity in determining whether
JAMS’ Rules were intended to apply, let alone JAMS’ Rule 11(b), leads the Court
to conclude that there is no “clear and unmistakable” evidence that the parties
agreed to delegate the issue of arbitrability. 
The next question is determining which
of Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the arbitration provision. As
recited above, the Operating Agreement provides that “any controversy between
the Members or Managers arising out of this Agreement” shall be submitted to
arbitration. 
In its supplemental brief, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s derivative claims on behalf of MTC must be arbitrated. Defendants
cite to California Corporations Code section 17701.10, which provides that a
limited liability company’s operating agreement “governs . . . [r]elations
among the members as members and between the members and the limited
liability company.” (Defs. Supp. Brief, p. 3.) Defendants also compare the
California Revised Uniform Limited Liability Company Act (the “Act”) with similar
statutes in Washington and Delaware. Defendants rely on cases from Washington
and Delaware courts interpreting their respective statutory schemes and contend
that here, Plaintiff, not MTC, is the real party in interest in a derivative action.

In its supplemental opposition brief, Plaintiff
asserts that the derivative claims belong to MTC, which is a separate legal entity
defined as “Company” in the Operating Agreement and not included in the
definitions of “Member” or “Manager.” (Pltf. Supp. Brief, p. 4-5.) Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant’s out-of-state cases are also factually inapposite
because the arbitration clause here is narrow and only encompasses
controversies “between the Members or Managers.” The Court agrees. In Elf
Atochem North America, Inc. v. Jaffari, 727 A.2d 286 (Del. 1999), the
applicable arbitration clause provided that “any controversy or dispute arising
out of this Agreement, the interpretation of any of the provisions hereof, or
the action or inaction of any Member or Manager hereunder shall be submitted to
arbitration in San Francisco, California....” (Id. at p. 288.) In Berman
v. Tierra Real Estate Group, LLC (2022) 515 P.3d 1004, the parties agreed
to arbitrate “[a]ny dispute or controversy arising under, out of, in connection
with, or in relation to” the operating agreement. The language of these
arbitration provisions is much broader than the one in question. Plaintiff also
argues that the out-of-state cases cited by Defendants should be disregarded
because they conclude, in contrast to California law, that a member bringing a
derivative claim is the real party in interest. (Plft. Supp. Brief, p. 7.) 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s derivative claims
brought on behalf of MTC. 
Next, Defendants have not shown that an
arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Withum, or Plaintiff and
Martini, because neither Withum nor Martini are parties to the Operating
Agreement. Although Withum has expressed a willingness to arbitrate, Plaintiff
is not required to arbitrate its claims against Withum and cannot be compelled
to do so. Therefore, the motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
against Withum and Martini, is also DENIED.
With respect to its claims against Passmore
and Martini LLP, Plaintiff argues that it should be allowed to conduct limited
discovery regarding Passmore and Martini LLP’s assignment of their ownership
rights to Withum in order to determine whether Passmore and Martini LLP retain
the right to enforce the arbitration agreement. However, as Defendants point
out, Plaintiff claims that “Withum never became a Member or Manager under the
Operating Agreement” in arguing that its claims against Withum are not
arbitrable. (Opp., p. 9.)  
B.  
Whether
the Action Should Be Stayed
In light of the fact that Plaintiff’s
claims against Withum and Martini and Plaintiff’s derivative claims are
nonarbitrable, Defendants argue that this court action should be stayed until
the arbitration is resolved. The Court agrees. Section 1281.2(d) allows this
Court to order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration,
and to stay this action pending the outcome of arbitration if there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law and fact. Plaintiff’s
nonarbitrable claims involve common issues of fact with its claims against Martini
LLP and Passmore, including the extent to which Defendants breached any
fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiff and MTC and whether Withum or Martini aided
and abetted those breaches, and whether there was any interference with
prospective economic relations by any of the defendants. Plaintiff’s counsel’s unsubstantiated
concerns of potential spoliation do not outweigh the duplication of judicial
resources and the possibility of conflicting rulings if this case were to
proceed against Withum or Martini in court alongside arbitration.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff is ordered to arbitrate
its claims brought directly against Passmore and Martini LLP. The remainder of
the action is stayed pending the completion of arbitration. 
The Court sets a Status Conference for June
28, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. Parties are
to submit a joint report on the status of arbitration no later than 5 days
before the date of the hearing. 
Dated
this 29th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 