 Case Number:  23AHCV00002    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



TOVIAS ESPINOZA, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ALHAMBRA
   HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENTRE, LP, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00002
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
   FROM BOARDWALK WEST FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLC; MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
   DISCOVERY RESPONSES FROM ALHAMBRA HEALTHCARE & WELNESS CENTRE, LP

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   29, 2024




 


)


 



 
Boardwalk West 
On October 16, 2023, plaintiff Socorro
Cabral (“Plaintiff”), individually and as successor-in-interest to Tovias
Espino, filed four discovery motions. One motion sought an order compelling
defendant Boardwalk West Financial Services, LLC (“Boardwalk West”) to serve
further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 15.1, 16.1, 16.2,
16.3, 16.4, and 16.5. 
Plaintiff granted Boardwalk West several
extensions to respond and Boardwalk West served unverified responses July 20,
2023. Plaintiff argues that the responses were evasive and deficient and sent a
letter to Boardwalk West’s counsel on August 1, 2023. Boardwalk West agreed to
supplement some responses, but not those at issue in this motion. 
In opposition, Boardwalk West argues
that this motion is moot because it served supplemental responses on January
16, 2024. Boardwalk West argues that its objections were justified and sanctions
should not be imposed. Specifically, Boardwalk West claims that the form
interrogatories in question sought “premature information related to special or
affirmative defenses” and “premature disclosure of expert information.”
Boardwalk West claims that it did not have adequate time to issue subpoenas,
obtain and analyze medical records, complete discovery, or conduct depositions.
This is unpersuasive because the action was filed more than a year ago. Also,
the form interrogatories sought facts supporting affirmative defenses and
Defendant’s contentions; if Defendant did not have any facts, Defendant should
have withdrawn those affirmative defenses, as it later did. 
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless
the party acted with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise
be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).)
Sanctions may be awarded under in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (C.R.C. 3.1348.) 
Accordingly, while the motion is DENIED
as moot, the Court imposes sanctions pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1348 on Boardwalk West and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $700, consisting of 2 hours at a hourly rate of $350, to be
paid within 20 days of the date of this Order. 

Alhambra Healthcare & Wellness
Centre, LP 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed
three motions for orders compelling Alhambra Healthcare & Wellness Centre (“Alhambra
Healthcare”) to serve further discovery responses and produce responsive
documents. Alhambra Healthcare and Boardwalk West are represented by the same
counsel, so the same facts described above are applicable to the motions
brought against Alhambra Healthcare. 
First, Plaintiff sought further
responses to Form Interrogatory Nos. 15.1, 16.1, 16.2, 16.3, 16.4, and 16.5
from Alhambra Healthcare who, like Boardwalk West, argued that the
interrogatories were premature but served supplemental responses on January 16,
2024. As discussed above, these arguments are unpersuasive. 
Next, Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory
No. 2 sought the names and contact information of its current employees who
provided care to the decedent, Tovias Espinoza. Alhambra Healthcare objected on
the grounds that Plaintiff’s counsel could not directly contact Alhambra
Healthcare’s employees. In response, Plaintiff drafted a stipulation for
defense counsel to execute, whereby defense counsel would agree to accept
service of deposition notices and subpoenas on behalf of its current employees.
This stipulation was provided to defense counsel on August 1, 2023, and on
August 23, 2023, defense counsel wrote that Alhambra Healthcare intended to
execute the stipulation. However, the stipulation was not signed and there were
no further discussions between the parties until after this motion was filed.
The stipulation was signed by defense counsel several months after it was
originally sent, on January 16, 2024; it appears that Plaintiff was forced to
file this motion in order to obtain Alhambra Healthcare’s cooperation. 
Third, Plaintiff demanded Alhambra
Healthcare produce its administrative and resident care policies and procedures
as part of Request for Production Nos. 10, 11, and 12. Alhambra Healthcare agreed
to produce the table of contents for them and purportedly sent a proposed
“protective order.” Plaintiff responded with the above-mentioned stipulation
agreeing: (1) not to disseminate the policies and procedures to third parties
not necessary to the litigation, (2) not to use them in any other matter, and
(3) to store and destroy them upon conclusion of the lawsuit. Plaintiff also
requested that defense counsel sign the stipulation and produce the documents
by August 10, 2023. Alhambra Healthcare counsel sent an email dated August 23,
2023, expressing an intention to sign the stipulation, but failed to do so,
necessitating this motion. 
In light of the foregoing facts, the
Court imposes monetary sanctions pursuant to CRC 3.1348 against Alhambra
Healthcare and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount
of $2,100, for 6 hours at an hourly rate of $350, to be paid within 20 days of
the date of this Order. 
 
Dated
this 29th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 