

Hearing Date:              September
28, 2023
Case Name:                 Angel
v. Monster Energy Company
Case No.:                    19STCV28457
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment
or Summary Adjudication 
Moving Party:             Cross-Defendants/Cross-Complainants Promote Mexico, LLC and Roger Norman


Responding
Party:      Cross-Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Morgan Langley, Langley Productions, Inc., and COPS Racing, Inc. 

 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion for Summary Judgment is denied. The Motion for Summary
Adjudication is granted as to Morgan Langley on Issues 1- 4, 8, and 9, and
otherwise denied.   
 

 
            This action
arises out of injuries sustained by Plaintiff Magna Angel (Plaintiff) during
the 2018 Baja 1000 Race in Ensenada, Mexico (Race). The Race was owned and
operated by Defendant Promote Mexico, LLC dba Score International (Promote
Mexico). On October 30, 2018, Plaintiff entered into an agreement as an
independent contractor with Defendant Monster Energy Company (Monster Energy)
to attend the Race. At the Race, a vehicle driven by Defendant Morgan Langley (Langley)
and owned by COPS Racing, LLC (COPS Racing) and Langley Productions, Inc.
(Langley Productions) struck and injured Plaintiff. On August 12, 2019,
Plaintiff filed her original Complaint against Defendants Monster Energy,
Langley Productions, COPS Racing, and Langley based on claims of negligence. On
August 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint adding claims of
Negligence, and Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention against Promote
Mexico (as Score International), Roger Norman (Norman), Score-SRL, COPS Racing,
Langley, and Monster Energy.
 
            On October 28,
2019, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Monster Energy filed a Cross-Complaint
against Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico (as Score International), Morgan
Langley, Langley Productions, Inc., and COPS Racing, LLC, alleging causes of
action for (1) express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied equitable
indemnity; (4) comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and
(7) declaratory relief. On April 21, 2021, Monster Energy filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint adding two new parties, Roger Norman and Score International, S
de RL de CV (Score-Mexico).
 
            On January
7, 2020, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Tempt Media, LLC alleging causes of
action for (1) implied equitable indemnity, (2) contribution and indemnity; (3)
declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, (5) breach of contract, and (6) breach
of contract. On April 9, 2020, Promote Mexico filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint that added Cross-Defendants Monster Energy, Langley, Langley
Productions, and COPS Racing as cross-defendants. 
 
            On January
13, 2020, Defendant/Cross-Complaints COPS Racing and Langley filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico, Norman, and Monster
Energy for (1) express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied
indemnity; (4) comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and
(7) declaratory relief. On September 21, 2021, COPS Racing filed a First-Amened
Cross-Complaint adding alter ego allegations. 
 
On January 5,
2023, Monster Energy filed a motion for summary adjudication of the duty to
defend against Promote Mexico. On March 21, 2023, the Court granted this motion,
finding that Promote Mexico owed Monster Energy a duty to defend based on
Section 6.01(a) of the Television Sponsorship Agreement between the parties. 
 
On May 18, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico
moved for summary adjudication on the duty to defend against Monster Energy. On
September 28, 2023, the Court denied the motion for
summary adjudication. 
 
            On
July 18, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Promote Mexico and Roger Norman (Moving Party or Promote Mexico) moved for summary
adjudication of the first through sixth causes of action on COPS Racing Team
and Morgan Langley’s First Amended Cross-Complaint, and the first and second
causes of action in Promote Mexico’s First Amended Cross-Complaint. COPS
Racing, LLC (COPS Racing), Morgan Langley, and Langley Productions, Inc. (Langley
Productions) (collectively, COPS Defendants) opposed the motion for summary judgment/summary
adjudication.
 
            Promote
Mexico’s motion for summary judgment is denied. The motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to Morgan Langley on Issues 1- 4, 8,
and 9, and otherwise denied.   
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
            COPS Defendants’ objections to
Plaintiff’s evidence are ruled as follows: No. 1 is overruled, No. 2-4 are
sustained only to the extent it is being offered for the truth of the matter
alleged therein but is overruled as to its existence and filing.   
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue
of material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact
to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
            Promote
Mexico and Norman (jointly, Promote Mexico) argue Defendant Morgan Langley, on
behalf of himself, COPS Racing, LLC, and Langley Productions, Inc. (referred
collectively, as COPS Racing Team) owe Promote Mexico a duty to defend and
indemnify based on the parties’ Release and Indemnity Agreement. Promote Mexico
argues it is entitled to summary adjudication in its favor on its first and
second causes of action in its First Amended Cross-Complaint, and summary
adjudication in its favor on the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action on COPS Racing Team and Langley’s First Amended
Cross-Complaint.
 
In support of the
motion for summary judgment/adjudication, Promote Mexico submits evidence that
on November 15, 2018, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Morgan
Langley executed a General Waiver, Release, Consent and Indemnification
Agreement (Agreement). (PSS No. 1.) 
 
In this Agreement,
Promote Mexico argues the Agreement provided for a release, a covenant not to
sue, and defense and indemnity obligations; Section 5 of the Agreement states: 
 
5. Release/Indemnity.
As consideration for being permitted by SCORE International, SRL to participate
in or attend the Event…: (A) I hereby agree that I, my assigns, spouse, heirs,
beneficiaries, agents, guardians, legal representatives, team members, staff,
family and individuals affiliated with my race efforts will not make any claim
against, sue, or attach the property of SCORE International, SRL, Promote
Mexico, LLC, dba SCORE Marketing, and each of their officers, directors,
managers, employees, shareholders, members, volunteers, agents, assigns,
contractors, insurers, representatives, predecessors, successors, licensors,
licensees, parents, subsidiaries and Affiliates (as defined below) (hereinafter
referred to collectively as “Releasees”) for any injury or damage resulting
from the negligence or other acts, howsoever caused, by any of the Releasees as
a result of my participation in the Event and Related Activities, associated
functions and use of the facilities. (PSS No. 4.) 
 
The provision
continues: 
 
I hereby agree to
release, discharge, defend, indemnify and hold Releasees harmless from all
liability, actions, claims, demands, charges, expenses, attorney's fees of any
nature that I, my assignees, spouse, heirs, beneficiaries, agents, guardians,
legal representatives, team members, staff, family and individuals affiliated
with my race efforts now have or may hereafter have for injury or damage
resulting from, related to or connected with my participation in the Event and
Related Activities, associated functions and use of the facilities. (PSS No.
5.)
            
Promote Mexico
asserts that Cross-Defendant Morgan Langly executed this Agreement on behalf of
himself, COPS Racing, LLC, and Langley Productions, Inc., such that all these
parties are bound by its language imposing a duty to defend and indemnify. 
 
Duty to Indemnify
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the motion for summary adjudication of the duty to
indemnify is premature and must be denied. 
 
            As
argued by COPS Defendants, “the duty to indemnify does not arise until
liability is proven.” (Aluma Systems Concrete Construction of California v.
Nibbi Bros. Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 620, 627.) Here, “Promote [Mexico]
has not shown that liability has been proven so as to trigger any indemnity
obligation . . ..” (Opp. 2:21-22.) 
 
In reply, Promote
Mexico suggests that COPS Defendants have repudiated their agreement to
indemnify in the Agreement by denying they have such an agreement, and by
filing their Cross-Complaint against the Releasees. (See Hewlett-Packard Co.
v. Oracle Corp. (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 506, 550 [“if a party to a contract
expressly or by implication repudiates the contract before the time for his or
her performance has arrived, an anticipatory breach is said to have
occurred.”].) The Reply does not address the citation to Aluma Systems
Concrete Construction of California v. Nibbi Bros. Inc. (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 620. 
 
The duty to defend
is distinct from the duty to indemnify and, depending on the contractual
language, “a duty to defend may exist even if no duty to indemnify is
ultimately found.” (Aluma Systems Concrete Construction of California v.
Nibbi Bros. Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 620, 627.) 
 
Covenant Not to Sue:
 
            In
reply, Promote Mexico argues that COPS Defendants also violated their duty not
to sue. (Reply 2:25-5:21.) The Opposition does not address the covenant not to
sue. (See generally Opp.) Promote Mexico’s Reply notes: “Indeed, the Opposition
is silent as to Mr. Langley and COPS Racing’s breach of the covenant not to
sue, conceding the issue.” (Reply 3:1-2.) 
 
However, the
Opposition’s purported omission of any argument on this duty/breach is the
result of Promote Mexico’s failure to raise this issue in the moving papers or
in the separate statement. (See also Mot., 5:13 [only reference to a duty not
to sue]; see generally Promote Mexico’s Separate Statement.) This issue was not
properly raised and briefed in the moving papers and, therefore, cannot not be
raised for the first time in reply. 
 
Thus, the motion
summary adjudication based on the duty to indemnify is denied. 
 
Duty to Defend
 
            Only
the issue of the duty to defend remains on this motion. 
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication as to Duty to Defend claims against COPS Racing
and Langley Production (Issues Nos. 8 [Promote Mexico’s First Cause of
Action] and 9 [Promote Mexico’s Second Cause of Action].)[1] 
 
            Promote
Mexico seeks summary adjudication against Cross-Defendant Langley Productions
and Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant COPS Racing on its First Amended
Cross-Complaint based on the language in the Agreement cited above. Promote
Mexico’s motion for summary adjudication is based on its assertion that
Cross-Defendant Morgan Langly executed the Agreement on behalf of himself, COPS
Racing, LLC, and Langley Productions, Inc., such that all these parties are
bound by its language imposing a duty to defend.
 
In opposition, COPS
Defendants argue Langley Productions is not a party to the Agreement. COPS Defendants
note that the Agreement was signed by Morgan Langley as a “Race Participant.” (PSS
1 [Bassirian Decl., Ex. 1 [Release], p. 1.]) 
 
The Reply argues
that Morgan Langley’s relationship with COPS Racing and Langley Productions is
such that it is clear he entered this Agreement on their behalf. In support,
Promote Mexico cites to Morgan Langley’s deposition testimony, claiming that he
testified to signing on behalf of COPS Racing and Langley Production. (PSS 1 [Bassirian
Decl., Ex. 2 (Langley Depo., pp. 102:17-103:2].). However, this deposition
testimony does not assert the facts Promote Mexico claims it does.  The cited testimony merely states: 
 
Q. But you -- nobody forced you to sign it; right? 
A. No, of course not. Totally voluntary.
 . . . 
Q.
All right. So the document says what it says. You initialed it and signed it
and agreed to its terms; right?
A. Yes, sir.” 
(PSS 1 [Bassirian Decl., Ex. 2 (Langley Depo., pp. 102:17-103:2].)
That is, the Agreement
does not on its face purport to bind any other party aside from the “Race
Driver.” This is important because only a signatory to a contract may be liable
for a breach. (Clemens v. American Warranty Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d
444, 452.) 
 
In contrast, where
a contract is entered into on behalf of a corporation by its agent, the
corporation is liable and the agent is not liable. (Barrett v. Hammer
Builders, Inc. (1961) 195 Cal.App.2d 305, 317.) For example, where the
signature block reads, “ ‘Prodigal Builders, Inc. by Samuel Oschin,’ ” “[i]t is
clear that Sam Oschin was contracting on behalf of Prodigal and not for
himself.” (Ibid.)


Here, the evidence
shows only Morgan Langley signing as an individual, without reference to any
title, indicating that only Morgan Langley intended to be personally bound
under the Agreement. No other language is cited in the Agreement which would
purportedly bind these principals.[2]
 
Promote Mexico
does not meet its initial burden on this issue with respect to COPS Racing and
Langley Productions. While the Reply argues “Langley’s signature on the Release
and Indemnity Agreement is sufficient to bind himself, the entity that owns the
race team, and his production company,” it cites no legal authority in support.
(Reply 3:6-17.)
 
Moreover, although
the Opposition’s own evidence does indicate that Morgan Langley “recently”
became president of Langley Productions[3]
and he raced on behalf of COPS Racing. (Reply 3:11-14 [citing Opp. Ex. 2,
9:10-17; 11:14-15, Reply, Ex. 16, p. 7 [“Admit to the extent that Morgan
Langley participated in the 2018 Baja 1000 as Driver/Manager of the COPS Racing
Team.”]) – this evidence does not demonstrate that the Agreement is binding on
these entities. 


Further, even
though the evidence shows that Morgan Langley had some agency/employment
relationship with Langley Productions and COPS Racing, this fact alone does not
support finding that Morgan Langley entered into the Agreement on behalf of these
entities. 
 
 Thus, the only evidence provided by Promote
Morgan is that Morgan Langley himself signed the Agreement. As such, there is,
at minimum, a factual dispute regarding COPS Racing and Langley Productions’
alleged obligation to defend Promote Mexico as result of the factual dispute as
to the parties to the Agreement.
            
Promote Mexico’s
Motion for Summary Judgment and its Motion for Summary Adjudication Nos. 8 and
9 must be denied as to Langley Productions and COPS Racing for this reason.
 
Motion for
Summary Adjudication as to Duty to Defend against Morgan Langley (Issues No. 1-4,
8-9)
 
            Promote
Mexico argues that it is entitled to summary adjudication on Morgan Langley’s
first, second, and third causes of action in his First Amended Cross-Complaint.[4] 
 
            Based
on the evidence discussed above, there is no dispute that Morgan Langley signed
the Agreement. Rather, the only dispute on these issues is the interpretation
of the language in the Agreement. 
            
In determining the
scope of a particular indemnity/duty to defend provision, “[i]t is the intent
of the provision, and the agreement as a whole, that governs.” (Hot Rods,
LLC v. Northrop Grumman Systems Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1166, 1179.)
 
            The
language of the Agreement states, in relevant part:
 
“[Morgan Langley] …
agree[s] to . . . defend, indemnify and hold Releasees harmless from all liability, actions, claims, demands, charges, expenses,
attorney's fees of any nature that [Morgan Langley] now ha[s] or may hereafter
have for injury or damage resulting from, related to or connected with [his]
participation in the Event and Related Activities, associated functions and use
of the facilities.” (PSS No. 5.)
 
Promote Mexico
argues this language gives rise to a duty owed by COPS Defendants to defend
Promote Mexico against Plaintiff’s claims arising from the Event. 
 
In Opposition,
Morgan Langley and COPS Racing argue that they do not have a duty to defend
Promote Mexico in this case because the Agreement does not cover Plaintiff’s
claims against Promote Mexico here. Specifically, COPS Defendants argue that
the Agreement’s indemnity provision does not reference third party claims.  They contend that this provision covers only
first party claims, emphasizing the passage in the Agreement that refers to
“liability, actions, claims, demands” that Morgan Langley has “for
injury or damage” arising from the Event and Related Activities. This is a
strained reading.  A promise to defend
the releasee – Promote Mexico – only arises when there is a third party making
a claim against Promote Mexico. The Agreement certainly appears to apply to a
first party claim – Langley cannot seek indemnification from Promote Mexico for
an injury to him. But it does not follow that the Agreement applies only
to first party claims.
 
It is well
established that “[a] clause which contains the words ‘indemnify’ and ‘hold
harmless' is an indemnity clause which generally obligates the indemnitor to
reimburse the indemnitee for any damages the indemnitee becomes obligated to
pay third persons. [Citation.] Indemnification agreements ordinarily relate to
third party claims.” (Myers Building Industries, Ltd. v. Interface
Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 969.) “[T]his general rule does
not apply if the parties to a contract use the term ‘indemnity’ to include
direct liability as well as third party liability.” (Dream Theater, Inc. v.
Dream Theater (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 547, 555.) However, COPS Defendants
fail to identify any legal authority where a duty to defend and indemnify
excluded third party claims and only applied to direct claims between
the parties to the contract. 
 
Here, the Language
of the Agreement is quite broad. It requires indemnification (and related duty
to defend) for “all liability, actions, claims, demands, charges, expenses”
held by  Morgan Langley for “injuries and
damages” “related to or connected with [his] participation in the Event and
Related Activities.” The language is not a model of elegance, but to interpret
this provision as excluding third party claims requires ignoring the promise to
“defend” Promote Mexico.  Langley’s
interpretation is undermined because the Agreement already contains a covenant
not to sue Promote Mexico for Morgan Langley’s claims. The Langley
interpretation  renders this provision
superfluous. That is, where there is a covenant not to sue Promote Mexico for
Morgan Langley’s claims, there would be no need to further include a duty on
Langley to indemnify and defend for solely Morgan Langley’s claims. Thus, the
only reasonable interpretation of this provision is that it necessarily
includes third party claims “related to or connected with [his] participation
in the Event and Related Activities.”
 
Thus, Promote
Mexico’s motion for summary adjudication of Issues nos. 1-4, and 8-9 is granted
solely as to cross-defendant Morgan Langley.
 
Motion for
Summary Adjudication on Morgan Langley’s Express Indemnity and Contract Claims
(Issues No. 5-7)
 
            Promote
Mexico seeks summary adjudication against Morgan Langley’s fourth, fifth, and
sixth causes of action in his First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
Morgan Langley’s
Fourth cause of action against Promote Mexico for Express Indemnity, and his
Fifth and Sixth causes of action for Breach of Contract in the First Amended
Cross-Complaint, arise from his contention that he entered into an implied
contract with Promote Mexico wherein he would receive insurance coverage
applicable to Plaintiff’s claims through an insurance policy issued by Inbursa
Compania de Seguros (Inbursa Policy). (PSS No. 14.) Morgan Langley alleges
Promote Mexico breached that implied contract by not providing defense and
indemnity under this Inbursa Policy. (PSS No. 14.) The terms of coverage under
the Inbursa Policy, however, exclude any “damages or injuries incurred when the
event vehicle is outside of the official course of the event.” 
 
Promote Mexico
argues it is entitled to summary adjudication because this Inbursa Policy does
not applies to the facts here. Specifically, Promote Mexico argues that Inbursa
Policy does not apply because Morgan Langley was not on the official race
course when he struck Plaintiff. (PSS No. 15, 16.) Promote Mexico argues that
Morgan Langley admits this fact, citing Morgan Langley’s deposition testimony. 
 
            Promote
Mexico does not meet its initial burden on this issue because the cited
evidence only indicates that Morgan Langley admitted he was not officially racing
at the time of the accident, not whether he was on or off the official course. (DSS
16.) That is, Morgan Langley was asked during his deposition whether he was
“officially racing” at the time of the accident, not whether he was on or off
the course. (Bassirian Decl., Exh. 2 at p. 88:8-21.) Morgan testified that the
race had not officially started and that they “were in staging.” (Bassirian
Decl., Exh. 2 at p. 88:8-21.) 
 
            Moreover,
even assuming Promote Mexico had shifted its initial burden, COPS Defendants’ opposition
evidence raises a triable issue of material fact. At the time of Plaintiff’s
injury, she was located in a staging area that was controlled by the race
organizers, including Promote Mexico. (DAF No. 4.) At the start of the race, drivers
were instructed by the organizers to line up in the staging area in an order
specified by the organizers. (DAF No. 5.) Morgan was instructed by the race
organizers to drive his vehicle up a ramp to allow for photographs by third
parties. (DAF No. 6.) When that photography was completed, Morgan was
instructed by the race organizers to move his vehicle forward. (DAF No. 7.)
Following the race organizers’ instructions, Morgan moved his vehicle forward
and made contact with Plaintiff, who had not cleared the area. (DAF No. 8; DSS
No. 10.) Based on the forgoing evidence, there is a factual question around
whether the “staging area” was “outside of the official course of the
event.”  
 
            Thus,
summary adjudication as to issues 5-7 is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
            Promote Mexico’s motion
for summary judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication is granted as to Morgan Langley on Issues 1-
4, 8, and 9, and otherwise denied.   


