

 
            On
September 12, 2014, Plaintiff Marlene Soria (Plaintiff)
purchased a 2014 Chevrolet Cruze (Vehicle). Plaintiff alleges that, at the time
of the purchase, her Vehicle contained defects covered under the express
warranty and that Defendant General Motors LLC (GM) failed to repair the Vehicle
in compliance with the warranty. Plaintiff also claims that Defendant GM’s
fraudulent conduct contributed to her decision to purchase the Vehicle. 
 
On June
10, 2022, Plaintiff sued Defendant GM; the original Complaint alleged breach of
warranty claims under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
On
September 29, 2022, Plaintiff amended the Complaint, adding a violation of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) and Magnuson-Moss Warranty claims in
addition to the claims alleged in her initial Complaint. Defendant GM filed a
demurrer and motion to strike the FAC, challenging the fraud and CLRA claims. The
Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
On
February 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC), again
alleging breach of warranty claims under Song-Beverly, a common law fraudulent
concealment claim, a claim under the CLRA, and a Magnuson Moss Warranty Act
claim. On April 26, 2023, Defendant GM filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings and motion to strike. The Court granted the motion for judgment on
the pleadings without leave to amend as to the fraud claim and with leave to
amend as to the CLRA claim; the motion to strike was rendered moot. 
 
On July
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for (1.) Violation
of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2.) Violation
of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3.) Violation
of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4.) Breach
of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (5.) Violation
of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and (6.) Violation of Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
 
            Defendant GM demurs to the fifth
cause of action in the Third Amended Complaint, which alleges violation of the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act. Defendant GM also moves to strike the request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and the motion to strike. 
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer without leave to amend. The motion to strike is moot. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of California's Consumer
Legal Remedies Act (CLRA):
 
            Defendant
GM demurs to the fifth cause of action for violation of CLRA on the grounds the
claim is barred by the statute of limitations and the allegations are insufficient
to state a claim. 
 
            The Court
will first address the statute of limitations argument. 
 
            The statute
of limitations period for a CLRA claim is three years. (Civ.
Code, § 1783.)  
 
            Here, in
the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that GM violated the CLRA at the time of the sale of
the Vehicle. (TAC ¶ 78.) Specifically, the TAC alleges “Defendant
violated the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) when, inter alia, it
engaged in unfair and deceptive acts, and by knowingly warranting and allowing
to be sold to Plaintiff the Vehicle without disclosing that the Subject
Vehicle was defective and susceptible to sudden and premature failure.” (TAC ¶
78 [italics added].) 
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff
purchased her Vehicle on September 12, 2014. (TAC ¶ 7.) Accordingly, the
statute of limitations began to accrue on this CLRA claim on September 12, 2014
and expired on September 12, 2017. Plaintiff did not file her Complaint until
June 12, 2022 – more than four and a half years after expiration of the
limitations period. 
 
            Thus,
contrary to Plaintiff’s opposition, elements of the claim were complete as of
September 12, 2014, when Plaintiff purchased the allegedly defective Vehicle. (Fox v.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806 [“Generally speaking,
a cause of action accrues at ‘the time when the cause of action is complete
with all of its elements.’ ”].) As result, the Complaint raises statute of limitations issues
“clearly and affirmatively” from the face of the pleadings. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff posits the theory that there were multiple violations of
the CLRA: “Plaintiff alleges that GM’s CLRA violations occurred not only at the
time of sale, but every time that Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to
GM’s dealership(s) with concerns related to the Cooling System Defect and up
through the time that Plaintiff filed her Complaint. (TAC ¶¶ 41-44.)” (Opp.
4:11-14.) Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that these are separate injuries
arising from GM’s conduct or, otherwise, subject to a continuing accrual theory.  No legal authority is cited to support this
argument. (Opp. 4:2-5:3.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition further argues that “Plaintiff’s CLRA claim is nonetheless timely
because of the discovery rule, equitable estoppel doctrine, repair rule, and/or
class action tolling (i.e., the American Pipe rule).” (Opp. 3:1-2.) In making
this argument, Plaintiff relies on Code of Civil Procedures section 338, subdivision
(d), and makes no mention of the applicable statute, Civil Code section 1783.[1]
 
“An important
exception to the general rule of accrual is the ‘discovery rule,’ which
postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or has
reason to discover, the cause of action. [¶] A plaintiff has reason to discover
a cause of action when he or she ‘has reason at least to suspect a factual
basis for its elements.’ Under the discovery rule, suspicion of one or more of
the elements of a cause of action, coupled with knowledge of any remaining
elements, will generally trigger the statute of limitations period.” (Fox v.
Ethicon Endo–Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806–807.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that she did not discover the Vehicle defects until “shortly
before Plaintiff filed her Complaint.” (Opp. 6:8.) Specifically, she
states that she only
became aware of GM’s fraud underlying the CLRA after GM’s repeated failure to
repair the Vehicle. (FAC ¶ 46.) The TAC concedes that Plaintiff presented
the Vehicle on multiple occasions to GM’s authorized repair facilities with
complaints relating to the Vehicle’s engine and/or the engine’s cooling system,
but claims she only discovered the defect “following
Defendant’s unsuccessful attempts to repair them.” (TAC ¶¶ 41-44, 46.) 
 
“A plaintiff
need not be aware of the specific ‘facts’ necessary to establish the claim;
that is a process contemplated by pretrial discovery. Once the plaintiff has a suspicion
of wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to sue, [he or] she must decide
whether to file suit or sit on [his or] her rights. So long as a suspicion
exists, it is clear that the plaintiff must go find the facts; [the plaintiff]
cannot wait for the facts to find [him or] her.” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly &
Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1111 [italics added].) Thus, “[t]he discovery
rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry
notice of the cause of action.” (Fox, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 807 [italics
added].)
 
“[I]n order
to employ the discovery rule to delay accrual of a cause of action, a potential
plaintiff who suspects that an injury has been wrongfully caused must conduct a
reasonable investigation of all potential causes of that injury. If such an
investigation would have disclosed a factual basis for a cause of action, the
statute of limitations begins to run on that cause of action when the
investigation would have brought such information to light. In order to
adequately allege facts supporting a theory of delayed discovery, the plaintiff
must plead that, despite diligent investigation of the circumstances of the
injury, he or she could not have reasonably discovered facts supporting the
cause of action within the applicable statute of limitations period.” (Fox,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 808–809.)
 
Plaintiff’s
allegations establish facts demonstrating delayed discovery. In particular, the
TAC alleges ongoing and continuous problems with the Vehicle. (TAC ¶¶ 41-44, 46.) However,
Plaintiff’s first alleged repair attempt – at least, according to the TAC – did
not occur until January 9, 2020. (TAC ¶ 41.) There are no alleged repair
attempts between 2014 and 2020 or any other facts that would indicate Plaintiff
knew or should have known of GM’s wrongful conduct earlier. Thus, TAC supports finding
delayed discovery under the circumstances. 
 
The Court will now turn to the
sufficiency of the allegations to state a claim. 
 
Defendant GM argues this cause of
action fails because Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state a
claim. 
 
The CLRA prohibits certain “unfair
methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by
any person in a transaction intended to result or which results in the sale or
lease of goods or services.”  (Civ. Code, § 1770.) The elements of a
CLRA claim are: (i) a consumer; (ii) who suffers any damage; (iii) because of
the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or practice declared to
be unlawful by Civil Code section 1770. (Civ. Code, § 1780(a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s CLRA claim is
based on GM’s allegedly fraudulent conduct pertaining to the Vehicle’s cooling
defect. (FAC ¶ 79.) The TAC alleges that Civil Code sections 1770, subdivisions
(a)(5) and (a)(7) were violated. (TAC ¶ 81.)
 
These subdivisions state: 
 
“(5) Representing that goods or
services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses,
benefits, or quantities that they do not have or that a person has a
sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or connection that the person does
not have. 
. . .
(7) Representing that goods or
services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of
a particular style or model, if they are of another.”  (Civ. Code, § 1770, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff fails to allege facts
regarding GM’s alleged representations under those two subdivisions. (TAC ¶ 81
[“ . . . Defendant violated California Civil Code § 1770(a), as it represented
that the Vehicle and its Cooling System had characteristics and benefits that
they do not have, and ii) represented that the Vehicle and its Cooling System
were of a particular standard, quality, or grade when they were of another.”].)
The demurrer states: “Plaintiff did not identify the characteristics and
benefits that GM represented the Cruze as having, nor did Plaintiff allege
facts showing that GM misrepresented anything about the characteristics and
benefits of Plaintiff’s Cruze. Plaintiff also did not identify the particular
standard, quality or grade that GM represented the Cruze as having, nor did
Plaintiff allege facts showing when, where, or how GM misrepresented a
particular standard for, quality of, or grade in the Cruze.” (Dem. 5:2-7.) The
TAC does not plead Defendant made affirmative misrepresentations to support the
violation of CLRA. 
 
Instead, Plaintiff relies on a
fraudulent omission theory. That is, Defendant GM had a duty to disclose
the
defective cooling system in the Vehicle but failed to do so.
 
A CLRA claim may arise from
fraudulent concealment or omission, but to be actionable, “the omission must be
contrary to a representation actually made by the defendant, or an omission of
fact the defendant was obliged to disclose.” (Daughtery v. American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 835; Gutierrez v. Carmax
Auto Superstores Cal. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1258.)
 
When claims under CLRA are based on
allegations of fraudulent concealment or omissions, they “must be stated with
reasonable particularity, which is a more lenient pleading standard than is
applied to common law fraud claims.” (Gutierrez, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1261.) Specifically, a plaintiff must plead with reasonable particularity
the facts supporting the elements of the violation. (See Khoury v. Maly's of
Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
Plaintiff concedes that she cannot allege
a direct relationship between GM and herself because she did not purchase the
Vehicle from GM but argues GM “may” still have a duty to disclose. Plaintiff
suggests that the warranty agreement with GM creates a sufficient transactional
relationship and goes on to cite Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 844. (Opp. 11:24-12:13.) 
 
However, the
Dhital court found that the plaintiffs’ statutory warranty claims under
the Song-Beverly Act was the equivalent of contract claims for the purposes of
determining whether the economic loss rule applies. This finding, however, was
not used to support finding a duty to disclose. (Dhital, 84 Cal. App.
5th at 838, fn. 3.) Only later in its decision did the Dhital court
state that the plaintiffs’ allegations were sufficient to overcome the
defendant's argument that there was no buyer-seller relationship giving rise to
a duty to disclose. (Id. at 844.) The Dhital court explained that
the plaintiffs sufficiently alleged that the requisite buyer-seller
relationship existed because the plaintiffs had alleged that they bought the
car from a Nissan dealership, Nissan backed the purchase with an express
warranty, and Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of
the sale of Nissan vehicles to customers. (Id.) 
 
In this
case, Plaintiff does not allege where she bought the Vehicle. Thus, Plaintiff
has not pleaded a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.


Nonetheless, a failure to disclose a
fact constitutes a deceptive practice actionable under the CLRA “when the
defendant is the plaintiff's fiduciary, when the defendant has exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably accessible to the
plaintiff, and when the defendant actively conceals a material fact.” (Gutierrez
v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1258.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff contends she
adequately alleged facts establishing that GM had exclusive/superior knowledge
of material facts not known to Plaintiff (TAC ¶¶ 28, 80, 85-86) and actively
concealed material facts from Plaintiff (TAC ¶¶ 29-32, 37-38, 52-53, 81, 90-91).

 
Despite repeated opportunities to
allege sufficient facts with respect to the CLRA claim, these allegations are
conclusory and lacking in ultimate facts. Thus, these allegations are insufficient
to demonstrate either superior knowledge or active concealment by GM. Plaintiff
has failed to alleged facts giving rise to duty to disclose. The Court sustains
the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action.[2]
 
Based on the insufficiency of the
allegations to state a CLRA claim, the demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend. 
            
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Punitive
Damages Allegations 
 
            Defendant
GM moves to strike the request for punitive damages in the TAC. Defendant
argues, based on
its demurrer arguments, Plaintiff lacks a viable fraud-based claim to support
the punitive damage request. Further, even with the CLRA claim, GM argues the
allegations in the TAC do not satisfy the statutory standards required to seek
punitive damages.
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages only in its fifth cause of action for the violation of
the CLRA.. (TAC ¶ 96.) Given the Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer to this
causes of action, there is no underlying claim to support a request for punitive
damages. The motion to strike is moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. The motion to strike is moot. 
 
 


