 Case Number:  23STCV12624    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  73 08/07/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
686-WOPG, LLC v. RODRIGUEZ, et al. (23STCV12624)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Randy Chang
(The Chang Firm) 
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Brian Wagner (Kutak
Rock LLP)
 
demurrer TO SECOND AMENDED complaint (filed 6/27/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendant Ahn is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth, eighth, and ninth causes of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 2, 2023, 686-WOPG, LLC (“686-WOPG”) filed a breach of
contract action against Daniel Rodriguez, individually and as a dba of
Pablito’s Tacos, and Transcendent Development Group, Inc. (“Transcendent”).
 
On July 13, 2023, Transcendent filed a Complaint against 686-WOPG
and David Ahn (“Ahn”). 
 
On February 5, 2024, the Court found both cases are related and consolidated
the cases. 
 
On February 28, 2024, the Court sustained the Demurrer of Ahn and
686-WOPG to all causes of action in Transcendent’s Complaint.
 
On May 15, 2024, the Court sustained in part and overruled in part
the Demurrer of Ahn and 686-WOPG to Transcendent’s FAC. 
 
On June 5, 2024, Transcendent
filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
alleging the following causes of action: 
              C/A 1: Forceable Entry
              C/A 2: Forceable Detainer
              C/A 3: Trespass
              C/A 4: Conversion of Tangible
Personal Property
              C/A 5: Breach of Written Lease
Contract
              C/A 6: Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
              C/A 7: Quiet Enjoyment 
              C/A 8: Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage
              C/A 9: Unfair Business Practices
 
The SAC alleges the following. In or around July 27, 2021, Plaintiff and Defendant 686-WOPG entered
into a written lease agreement for a term of 10 years for the premises located
at 686 Spring Street, suite 104, Los Angeles, California. (SAC, ¶ 2.)
Defendant, 686-WOPG is a California Limited Liability Company consisting of a
single member LLC, fully controlled by Defendant Ahn. (SAC, ¶ 4.)
On or about April 14, 2023, Defendants changed the door locks, gate locks,
security entry codes, etc. for entry into the aforesaid premises all without
permission or consent by Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶ 1.)
 
On April 18, 2024, Defendants Ahn and 686-WOPG (collectively
“Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer, arguing:
·      
All of Plaintiff’s
causes of action against Defendant Ahn fail because the FAC does not plead an
alter ego relationship sufficient to state a claim against him.
·       Plaintiff’s
Sixth Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing Fails as it is Duplicative of the Breach of Contract Claim
·       Plaintiff’s
Eighth Cause of Action for Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage -
Negligent Fails for Lack of Sufficient Facts
·       Plaintiff’s
Ninth Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices (California Business &
Professions Code § 17200) Fails for Lack of Sufficient Facts
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing that the SAC sufficiently
sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating she called
Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer regarding the instant motion, but Plaintiff’s
counsel did not answer or return her call. (Andrews Decl., ¶¶
2-8.) While the parties did not meet and confer in person or by
telephone, the failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court
proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
 
Defendants
request judicial notice of the Statement of Information filed July 25, 2023, in
the State of California Office of the Secretary of State, File No.
BA20231166163.
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court
grants Defendants’ request. However, the Court notes that while the Court may
take judicial notice of the document, the Court may not take judicial notice of
the truth of its contents. (See Herrera
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
C.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
D.     All Causes of
Action against Defendant Ahn
 
Defendant Ahn
demurs to the entire SAC on the grounds that it fails to plead an alter ego
relationship sufficient to state a claim against him.
 
In Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the
Court of Appeal held the following was sufficient to allege alter ego
liability:  
 
Rutherford
alleged that Caswell dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and
ownership existed between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and
conduit for Caswell's affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR
failed to abide by the formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used
PDR assets as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would
promote injustice. These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First
Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910,
915–916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657. As in First Western, “[a]ssuming these facts
can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego
principle.” (Id. at p. 916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657.) 
 
Defendants
argue that Rutherford failed to allege specific facts to support an alter ego
theory, but Rutherford was required to allege only “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, 67 Cal.Rptr.3d 330, 169 P.3d 559.) Moreover, the “less particularity [of
pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge
of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff,”
which certainly is the case here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474, 20 Cal.Rptr. 609, 370 P.2d 313.) Therefore, we
affirm the trial court's ruling that Rutherford sufficiently pled an alter ego
theory of liability. 
 
Plaintiff
amended its SAC to include allegations that Defendant 686-WOPG, LLC was the
alter ego of Ahn, stating:
 
“Defendant Anh (1) controlled the business and affairs of Defendant
686-WOPG, LLC; (2) commingled the funds and assets of the corporate entities,
and diverted corporate funds and assets for his own personal use; (3)
disregarded legal formalities and failed to maintain arm’s length relationships
among the corporate entities; (4) inadequately capitalized Defendant 686-WOPG,
LLC; (5) held himself out as personally liable for the debts of the corporate
entities; (6) used the corporate entities as a mere shells, instrumentalities
or conduits for himself and/or his individual businesses; (7) used the
corporate entities to procure labor, services or merchandise for another person
or entities; (8) manipulated the assets and liabilities between the corporate
entities so as to concentrate the assets in one and the liabilities in another;
(9) used corporate entities to conceal their ownership, management and
financial interests and/or personal business activities; and/or (10) used the
corporate entities to shield against personal obligations, and in particular
the obligations as alleged in this Complaint.” 
 
“Defendant 686-WOPG, LLC was not only influenced and governed by
Defendant Anh, but there was such a unity of interest and ownership that the
individuality, or separateness, of Ahn and Defendant 686-WOPG, LLC has ceased,
and that the facts are such that an adherence to the fiction of the separate
existence of these entities would, under the particular circumstances, sanction
a fraud or promote injustice.”
 
“Plaintiff is informed and believes that at all relevant times
mentioned herein, the acts of the business entities involved were performed by
an employee, agent, officer, servant and/or representative of Ahn and Defendant
686-WOPG, LLC.”
 
(SAC, ¶¶
20-22.) 
 
The
Court finds these new allegations sufficient to plead alter ego liability as to
Ahn at this time. As the Rutherford court stated, there is not a heightened pleading standard for alter ego theory; it is
adequate for a plaintiff to allege “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts” and
that “less particularity [of pleading] is required where the defendant may be
assumed to possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to
that possessed by the plaintiff, which certainly is the case” when analyzing
alter ego theory at the pleading stage. (Rutherford Holdings, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at 236.) Accordingly, the SAC sufficiently establishes ultimate
facts to support a reasonable inference of alter ego for pleading purposes. The
evidentiary facts proving these allegations are not at issue at this time.
 
 As such, the
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint against Defendant Ahn is OVERRULED. 
 
A.      Sixth Cause
of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty
itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than
mistaken judgment.”  (Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1394.)  “If the allegations do not go
beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged
acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated . . . . 
[T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.”  (Id. at 1394-95.) To recover in tort
for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably
or without proper cause.” (Id. at 1395, cleaned up.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues the gravamen of the breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing cause of action is not allegation of breach of any
express contractual terms, but rather, Defendants’ efforts to undermine or
prevent Plaintiff from doing business. Plaintiff added the following
allegation: “Invariably, this cause of action is premised on the action of the
Defendant Anh and Defendant 686-WOPG, LLC refusal to allow Plaintiff to enter
the leased premises on the date of the lockout. Even when demanded and
confronted, Defendants refused to act in good faith. Instead initiate a false
narrative that Plaintiff abandoned the leased premises when it was obvious that
Plaintiff had not.” (SAC, ¶ 49.)
 
As the Court found
in its previous order, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged its breach of
contract cause of action, specifically the existence of the lease, that
Plaintiff has paid all rents and obligations, and that Defendants breached the
lease by locking Plaintiff out of the premises. (SAC, ¶¶
1-3.) 
 
However, as the Court
noted in its previous orders sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint’s
breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, this cause of action is
subsumed within the fifth cause of action for breach of the lease. The Court again
does not find any additional claim is actually stated as the allegations rely
on the same alleged act of the breach of the lease. This implied covenant cause
of action is not separately supported by any different facts or relief sought.

 
Defendants’ demurrer to
the SAC’s sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
B.      Eighth Cause
of Action: Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
 
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.”  (Crown
Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404, cleaned
up.)  Further, “the alleged interference
must have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference
itself. For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be
unlawful, that is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable
legal standard.”  (Ibid., cleaned
up.)
 
The SAC
states that because of the illegal lockout, Plaintiff could not fulfill their
obligations to Uber, Grub Hub, Door Dash, Stripe, Hide the Llama, Hungary, The
Voice and cater to the 2 Me. (SAC, ¶¶ 55-64.) In all of those relationships, Plaintiff had a
reasonable expectation of economic benefit by virtue of supplying to those
third parties prepared foods from Plaintiffs facilities at 686 Spring Street,
Suite 104, Los Angeles, California. (Ibid.) On April 14, 2023, but for the illegal lockout,
Plaintiff would have realized economic benefits from selling the food. (Ibid.)
 
However, as the
Court also found in its prior orders, the eighth cause of action is not sufficiently
set forth. The cause of action is not adequately set forth with details of the arrangements,
what happened, dates, what was impacted, how Defendants knew about Plaintiff’s relationships
with the third parties, etc. Plaintiff’s allegations are still general and
conclusory. Plaintiff fails to specify the economic benefit expected to be
realized and whether this cause of action is different than damages flowing
from the alleged breach of the lease. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to
the SAC’s eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
C.      Ninth Cause
of Action: Unfair Business Practices
 
To set forth a claim for a violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish
Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain
specific acts.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200.)  A cause of action for unfair
competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.”  (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration
Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)
 
Here, the SAC
alleges that in illegally locking out Plaintiff, Defendants have engaged in
unfair and/or unlawful business practices and have thereby acquired money or
property rightfully belonging to Plaintiff by engaging in such unfair business
practices. (SAC, ¶¶ 65-71.) The SAC alleges “When
Defendants illegally locked out Plaintiff on April 14, 2023, its conduct was
unlawful and prohibited by law. The action is tortious in nature and not just
mere breach of contract.” (SAC, ¶ 68.)
 
The
Court does not find these allegations adequately set forth a cause of action for violation of section 17200. Plaintiff alleges a breach of
contract and as the Court stated in its previous orders sustaining this cause
of action, it is unclear what this cause of action adds to the dispute. Plaintiff fails to sufficiently allege unfair,
deceptive, or unlawful practice with the requisite particularity. Plaintiff
also fails to allege a violation of any particular statute. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
demurrer to the SAC’s ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
D.     Leave to
Amend
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,
LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
has had multiple chances to state a valid claim for its sixth, eighth and ninth
causes of action. Plaintiff did not materially amend its allegations as to
these causes of action in the SAC. In the opposition, Plaintiff does not show
how these causes of action can be successfully amended to state a valid cause
of action. Therefore, the Court does not grant leave to amend. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s causes of action against
Defendant Ahn is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth, eighth, and
ninth causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 