 Case Number:  22STCV30215    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  73 8/07/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SANDY FLORES, et al. v. LONG BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al. (22STCV30215)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Vanessa Avila-Flores (Pro
Per)
Counsel for
Defendants: Stephen Harber (McCune & Harber, LLP)
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND ALL
RELATED PRE-TRIAL DEADLINES (filed on 04/24/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Pre-Trial Deadlines is GRANTED.
 
The new Trial Date is set
for (confer with JA, please) The Final Status Conference is continued to (confer
with JA please) All case-related deadlines are to follow the new trial date.
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 15, 2022, Plaintiff V.A.F. minor by
and through her guardian ad litem Sandy Flores (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Long Beach Unified School District (“LBUSD”) and Jonathan
Hayes (“Hayes”). 
 
On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Violation of California Education Code § 5600 et seq.;
2.     
Violation of California Education Code § 48907;
3.     
Violation of California Education Code § 49000 and 49001 et seq.;
4.     
Violation of California Education Code § 49005.8;
5.     
Violation of Article I, Section 13(a);
6.     
Violation of Article I, Section 7(a) and Article IV Section
16(a) of the California Constitution; 
7.     
Violation of Article I, Section 2(A) of the California
Constitution;
8.     
Battery;
9.     
Assault;
10.  Bane Act;
11.  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and

12.  Negligence. 
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff was a student at Lakewood High School (“LHS”), which
LBUSD is responsible for operating. (FAC, ¶¶ 1-3.) In or about December 2021, the students of LHS, outraged by
ongoing acts of sexual assaults and sexual harassment against LHS students at
the LHS campus, and the failure by LHS and the LBUSD to address and the
unlawful assaults and harassment, began organizing a protest against such
violence. (FAC, ¶ 24.) The students
requested permission from LBUSD and/or LHS administrators to hold a peaceful
protest. (Ibid.) On December 13, 2021, Plaintiff participated in a
peaceful protest with other students at LHS during school hours. (FAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiff
alleges that during the protest, Hayes, LHS’ vice principal, and another LBUSD
employee physically attacked her by “crushing Plaintiff in a bear-hug-like
restraint” and thrusting her “body violently in various directions.” (FAC, ¶
29.)
 
On April 30, 2024, the Court on its
own motion, continued the trial scheduled for May 28, 2024 to August 7, 2024. 
 
On April 24,
2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Continue Trial and All Related
Pre-Trial Deadlines, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff moves for an order continuing the current trial date of
May 28, 2024 to a date in or about October of 2024 and continuing all discovery
and motion cut-off dates based upon the new trial date.
·      
This motion is made pursuant to California Rule of Court Rule
3.1332 on the basis that plaintiff has abandoned this litigation and a pending
motion for terminating sanctions is set to be heard after the current trial
date.
·       Plaintiff has
failed to respond to LBUSD’s discovery requests and meet and confer attempts,
necessitating an unopposed Motion to Compel. Further, plaintiff’s counsel
withdrew representation of plaintiff citing a total breakdown in client
communication. Because plaintiff failed to comply with the Court’s order to
provide verified responses and documents to LBUSD’s initial discovery requests
and has otherwise evidenced a total failure to participate in this litigation,
LBUSD requests that the Court grant this motion to continue trial so the Court
may hear Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions, and complete discovery
 
Plaintiff did
not file an opposition. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
A party
seeking a continuance of the date set for trial must make the request for a
continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).)¿ The request for continuance may be
granted on an affirmative showing of good cause.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332.)¿
 
The Court may
look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is
warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous
continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial. (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d)(1)-(11).) Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial date;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants move the Court to continue the trial and all related pre-trial
deadlines for five to six months, arguing good cause exists because Plaintiff
has abandoned this litigation. 
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff has failed to provide verified
responses to LBUSD’s discovery requests. On February 1, 2024, Defendants unopposed
Motion to Compel discovery responses was granted and Plaintiff did not appear
at the hearing. (Ovitz Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendants contend that at the time of the
filing of this instant motion, Plaintiff has still failed to provide verified
discovery responses, has failed to produce any documents, and has failed to
otherwise respond to LBUSD’s
meet and confer attempts. (Ovitz Decl., ¶ 9-10.) Thus, Defendants argue that it
seems Plaintiff has abandoned the case. Defendants scheduled the earliest date
for a Motion for Terminating Sanctions to be heard, on August 23, 2024, which
is after the current trial date of August 7, 2024.
 
The Court finds there is good cause to continue trial. A six-month
continuation of the trial date, and all deadlines flowing therefrom, should
suffice to allow Defendants’ Motion for Terminating Sanctions to be heard or to
complete discovery motion practice, depose Plaintiff and other important
witnesses. Furthermore, no prior requests for continuances have been made. The
Court also notes that no opposition has been filed alleging prejudice. It
appears Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by a continuance as she is proceeding
pro per and a continuance will allow her to find new counsel. Thus, the motion
is granted. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’
Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Pre-Trial Deadlines.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendants’
Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Pre-Trial Deadlines is GRANTED. Please
check with JA regarding new dates.