  Case Number:  20STCV19331    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




AIDAN SCIANDRA, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CHRONICPRACTOR CAREGIVER, INC., et
  al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 


     
  CASE NO.:  20STCV19331
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR
  TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
Date: 
  January 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: April 29, 2024
 



 
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Aidan Sciandra; Boualiene Syprasert; and Jack Edjourian (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Chronicpractor Caregiver, Inc. (“CCI”), Eric Loyola (“Loyola”), and Daniela
Alexander (“Alexander”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of a dispute
concerning the ownership of a marijuana dispensary.  The currently operative third amended
complaint (the “TAC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract – equity purchase
agreement; (2) breach of contract – promissory note; (3) breach of contract –
security agreement; (4) breach of written contract by third party beneficiary;
(5) specific performance; (6) demand for accounting; and (7) unjust enrichment.

 
The
currently operative first amended cross-complaint (the “FAXC”) alleges: (1)
breach of contract; (2) breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty; (3) breach of
fiduciary duty of care; (4) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (5)
conversion; and (6) conversion. 
 
            On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion for
terminating sanctions (the “Motion”). 
The Motion requests that the Court issue terminating, issue, evidence, and/or
monetary sanctions against Defendants due their repeated misuse of the
discovery process and failure to preserve evidence. 
 
DISCUSSION
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2023.030, where a
party engages in misuse of discovery process, the court may impose monetary,
issue, evidence, terminating, or contempt sanctions.  (See CCP §
2023.030.)  The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.  (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.  (Id.) 
Continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally
harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.  (Id.) 
Where discovery violations are willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.  (Id.) 
A trial court has broad discretion to impose discovery sanctions, but
two facts are generally a prerequisite to the imposition of nonmonetary
sanctions.  (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) 
Absent unusual circumstances, there generally must be: (1) a failure to
comply with a court order; and (2) the failure must be willful.  (Id.) 
A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. (Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.)  Where a trial court imposes a terminating
sanction, a trial court can strike out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.  (Id. at 1701.)  Although in extreme cases a court has the
authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure, a terminating
sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has attempted less
severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the record clearly
shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.  (Lopez v. Watchtower
Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566,
604-05.)  
 
Spoliation
of evidence means the destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the
failure to preserve evidence for another's use in pending or future litigation.  (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223.)  While there is no tort cause of action for
the intentional destruction of evidence after litigation has commenced, it is a
misuse of the discovery process that is subject to a broad range of punishment,
including monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions.  (Id.)  A terminating sanction is appropriate in the
first instance without a violation of prior court orders in egregious cases of
intentional spoliation of evidence.  (Id.) 
Discovery sanctions are intended to remedy discovery abuse, not to
punish the offending party.  (Id.)  Accordingly, sanctions should be tailored to
serve that remedial purpose, should not put the moving party in a better
position than he would otherwise have been had he obtained the requested
discovery, and should be proportionate to the offending party's misconduct.  (Id.)
 
The
Motion argues that terminating, issue, and/or issue sanctions should be imposed
based on Defendants’ failure to preserve certain pieces of evidence: (1)
Defendant Alexander’s cellphone, which was thrown away after sustaining water
damage in January 2021; and (2) CCI’s accounting and financial  documents from the Department of Cannabis
Control (“DCC”) and the Department of Cannabis Regulation (“DCR”), which were
lost after CCI was raided by law enforcement in 2022.  
 
            With respect to Alexander’s
cellphone, the evidence presented in support of the Motion suggests that Defendants
produced screenshots from the phone in response to discovery requests issued in
2020 before Plaintiffs issued a notice for inspection of the cellular device
itself on September 13, 2021.  (See Declaration
of Kristin Westphal (“Westphal Decl.”) ¶¶ 4, 7.)  There is no evidence that the cellphone was
intentionally destroyed; nor is there a clear nexus between the evidence that
was potentially contained in the cellphone and the issue sanctions requested by
Plaintiffs.  
 
 
            With respect to CCI’s tax and DCR
accounting documents, Defendants failed to timely comply with Plaintiffs’
discovery requests and subsequently lost access to these records without an
apparent attempt to make backup files for the potentially relevant evidence.  (See Westphal Decl. ¶¶ 22-23.)  While Defendants may not have caused the loss
of the evidence, their delays and failure to comply with discovery obligations
prevented Plaintiffs from accessing potentially relevant evidence that is no
longer available.  The Court finds it
appropriate, therefore, to impose an issue sanction establishing that the
financial, tax and accounting records from CCI that Defendants failed to
preserve show that Chronicpractor did not incur any damages from alleged tax
consequences caused by Plaintiffs’ actions. 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion in part.  The Court declines to impose the remaining
sanctions requested by the Motion.  
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 19th day of January 2024



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


