 Case Number:  21STCV24985    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV24985




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Relief from Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Teresa Williams  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Orbit International, Inc. and Pedro Corona



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 7, 2021, Plaintiff
Teresa Williams (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Orbit
International, Inc., Pedro Corona, and Does 1 to 25 for negligence due to a
motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff was initially represented by counsel. 
 
Then, on May 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney form
showing that she was representing herself. 
 
On February 2, 2023, this
case was called for trial. Plaintiff did not appear. Pursuant to oral request
by defendant’s counsel, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s complaint without
prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581(b)(5). (Min. Order,
2/2/23.) The Clerk of Court mailed notice of the dismissal order to Plaintiff’s
address on February 2, 2023. 
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for relief from, or reconsideration of the Court’s order.
Defendants Orbit International, Inc. and Pedro Corona (“Defendants”)
oppose. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Reconsideration
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent
part:   
 
“(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.  
 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte
motion.   
… 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a),
(b), (e).)   
 
A motion for
reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new
or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)
However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party
seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information
must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of
having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also
to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new
or different information earlier…”].)¿¿A disagreement with a ruling is not a
new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)  
 
If the above
statutory requirements are met, reconsideration should be granted. However, a
court is not required to change its decision upon reconsideration. (Corns v.
Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202, 226 CR 247, 251.) Although parties
may move for reconsideration only as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, the statute “do[es] not limit the court's ability, on its own
motion, to reconsider its prior interim orders so it may correct its own
errors.” (Le Francois v. Goel¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.)  
 
Relief under Section 473(b)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may
relieve a party from a dismissal taken against him through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  This application must be
filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  
 
A mistake is a basis for relief under section 473 when by
reason of the mistake a party failed to make a timely response.¿ Surprise
occurs when a party is unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without
any negligence of his own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the
party has shown some reasonable excuse for the default.¿ (Credit Managers
Association of California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984)
162 Cal.App.3d 1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892,
905.)¿ Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the
burden of demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake,
justifying a court’s vacating a judgment.¿ (Basinger v. Roger & Wells
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)¿¿¿ 
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries
of America, Inc.¿(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief
provision does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations
omitted], dismissals for failure to serve a complaint within three years
[citations omitted], dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations
[citations omitted], and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement
[citations omitted].” (Id.)            
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice of the
complaint in this case, the February 2, 2023 minute order, and Order of
Dismissal. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, although this
motion is entitled a “motion for relief” and “request for reconsideration of
dismissal”, Plaintiff provides no specific statute as a basis. While a court
may generally only consider the grounds stated in the notice of motion, “[a]n
omission in the notice may be overlooked if the supporting papers make clear
the grounds for the relief sought.” (Luri v. Greenwald¿(2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 1119, 1125.) 
 
In Plaintiff’s motion, she asks the Court
to reconsider the dismissal. She apologizes for her 20-minute delay on February
2, 2023 due to “unforeseen complications related to my disability.” She
provides some medical documentation. The motion is written in letter-format,
but is not a signed declaration, under penalty of perjury, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2015.5.
 
First, Plaintiff has not shown that
a motion for reconsideration under section 1008 is applicable here since
Plaintiff did not file this motion within 10 days after the dismissal and has
not presented a proper affidavit in support. (Code
Civ. Proc. 1008(a).) 
 
Next, if Plaintiff is relying on section
473(b) for relief from the dismissal, then relief is not available since this
motion was filed more than six months after the dismissal. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from
Judgment.
 
The Clerk of Court shall provide notice. 
 