 Case Number:  23STCV22081    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV22081




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Request for Production (Set 1)




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Eric Perine




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  BIS Logistics Inc.  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff Eric Perine (“Plaintiff”) propounded Request
for Production, Set One, on Defendant BIS Logistics Inc. (“Defendant”). (Montes
de Oca Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) 
 
Plaintiff granted several extensions. On March 26, 2024, Defendant
served responses to Request for Production, Set One; the responses contained
only objections. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. 6.) Plaintiff granted extensions to
provide further responses until April 23, 2024. On that day, Defendant failed
to provide responses. (Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
On June 12, 2024, the parties attended an informal discovery
conference (“IDC”). According to Plaintiff, Defendant’s counsel represented
issues communicating with Defendant and stated an intention to move to
intervene. The minute order for the IDC states that the matter is resolved. (Min.
Order, 6/12/24.) 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel further responses from Defendant to Request
for Production, Set One, numbers 1 through 15. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions. Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. 
 
In opposition,
Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) asserts that throughout February and August
2024, he emailed and called Defendant multiple times, requesting assistance in
the defense of this action. (Pollack Decl. ¶ 7.) Counsel states that he
retained an investigator to contact Defendant. On August 25, 2024, Defendant
responded to Counsel and signed the verifications for the discovery. (Id.
¶ 8.) The amended responses were served on August 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
No reply has
been filed. Therefore, since amended responses have been served, the motion to
compel further is denied as moot. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion to compel further responses to Request for
Production, Set One is denied as moot.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.