  Case Number:  21STCV09298    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV09298




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant State of California




OPPOSING PARTY


None 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
3.     Request for Judicial Notice in Support
4.     Declaration of Julio A. Hernandez in Support
5.     Declaration of Samantha Cooper in Support
6.     Index and Exhibits in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     None filed.
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.     None filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
March 9, 2021, Plaintiff Oscar Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Los Angeles Department of Water & Power, City of Los Angeles, County
of Los Angeles, State of California, and Does 1 to 100 based on negligence,
premises liability, and dangerous condition of public property.
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that on May 12, 2020, he was on property at East 58th
Street, near Hooper Avenue in Los Angeles, when he was electrocuted by downed
power wires. (Complaint, 4.) 
 
            Defendant
State of California (“Defendant”) now moves for summary judgment, arguing that it
did not have any authority, duty, or responsibility to own, manage, maintain,
repair, control, and/or inspect the premises where the incident occurred. No
opposition has been filed. 
            
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Court grants the request for
judicial notice of the Declaration of Rachael Millsap, as filed in the docket
for this case on October 19, 2022. The Court takes judicial notice of the
existence of the document within the Court’s record. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by
statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition
of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and either:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a) A negligent
or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿¿¿
 
Government Code section 835 sets out the
exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused
by a dangerous condition of public property. (Metcalf v. County of San
Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified
School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.) 
 
To establish a claim of dangerous
condition on public property, a plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant
owned or controlled the property; (2) that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury; (3) that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury that occurred; (4) that
defendant had notice of the dangerous condition for a long enough time to have
protected against it; (5) that plaintiff was harmed; and (6) that the dangerous
condition was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (Gov. Code, §
835; CACI No. 1100.)  Consequently, a public entity is only liable for a
dangerous condition of property if it either creates the condition or has
actual or constructive notice of the condition.  (Gov Code §835(b).)  
 
Here, Defendant sets forth the following
facts:
 
-       
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that on or about May 12, 2020,
he was electrocuted by a downed power wire(s) on Defendants’ premises, located
at or about East 58th St. by Hooper Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90011, and alleges
two causes of action for dangerous condition of public property and negligence.
(UMF 1.) 
-       
The incident occurred on the premises owned, maintained, and
controlled by the City of Los Angeles and/or Southern California Edison. (UMF
2.) 
-       
The State has no property interest or ownership at the
location at or about East 58th St. by Hooper Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90011 where
the incident occurred. (UMF 3.) 
 
Defendant has met its burden of
establishing that it did not own or control the area where Plaintiff was
injured. The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue
of fact. Since Plaintiff does not oppose this motion, he fails to meet his
burden. Therefore, the motion is summary judgment is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant State of California’s motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file and serve a proposed judgment within
10 days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 