 Case Number:  24VECP00115    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  107 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 



WESTERN PROGRESSIVE, LLC,
 
                        Plaintiff,
 
 
 
            v.
 
 
 
WEST COAST SERVICING, INC., ET AL.
 
                        Defendants.
 
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


CASE NO: 24VECP00115
 
 
COURT’S [TENATIVE] ORDER RE: PETITION
  AND DECLARATION RE UNRESOLVED CLAIMS AND DEPOSIT OF UNDISTRIBUTED SURPLUS
  PROCEEDS OF TRUSTEE’S SALE
 
 
 
 
 
Dept. 107
9:00 a.m.
September 23,
  2024



BACKGROUND
 
On March 6, 2024, Petitioner
Western progressive, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition and Declaration
Regarding Unresolved Claims and Deposit of Undistributed Surplus Proceeds of
Trustee’s Sale. The Petition is unopposed. 
 
Petitioner is the trustee under
the Deed of Trust (“DOT”), which encumbered the real property located at 7032
Crebs Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 (“Property”). (Pet., ¶¶1-2.) The DOT was
executed by Jose Alexander-Vallejos and Julia Vallejos, husband and wife as
trustors, on September 7, 2006. (Pet., ¶3.) The DOT was subsequently recorded
on September 16, 2006. (Id.) The Property was sold at a trustee’s sale
held on June 27, 2023 for a total of $568,500.00. (Pet., ¶¶4-6.) After paying
debt to foreclosing creditor ($495,845.010), trustee’s fees and expenses
($7,685.70), and the filing fee ($435.00), the remaining surplus proceeds is
$64,534.29. (Pet., ¶16.) Petitioner has received three written claims from
potential claimants to the surplus proceeds and has determined there is a
conflict between the potential claimants. (Pet., ¶11.)
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.    
Petition and Declaration Regarding Unresolved
Claims and Deposit of Undistributed Surplus Proceeds of Trustee’s Sale is GRANTED.
The amount of $64,534.29 shall be deposited with the Court. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Civil Code Section 2924k,
subdivision (a) states in relevant part, “[t]he trustee, or the clerk of the
court upon order to the clerk pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 2924j,
shall distribute the proceeds, or a portion of the proceeds, as the case may
be, of the trustee’s sale conducted pursuant to Section 2924h in the following
order of priority: (1) to the costs and expenses of exercising the power of
sale and of sale, including the payment of the trustee’s fees and attorney’s
fees permitted pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2924d and subdivision (b)
of this section…(2) to the payment of the obligations secured by the deed of
trust or mortgage which is the subject of the trustee’s sale…(3) to satisfy the
outstanding balance of obligations secured by any junior liens or encumbrances
in the order of their priority…[and] (4) to the trustor or the trustor’s
successor in interest. In the event the property is sold or transferred to
another, to the vested owner of record at the time of the trustee’s sale.” (Civ.
Code, § 2924k, subd. (a).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioner contends the original trustors to the foreclosing DOT were Jose
Alexander-Vallejos and Julia Vallejos, husband and wife as joint tenants
(“Trustors”) in a Grant Deed recorded
October 10, 2001. (Compendium of Exhibits (“COE”), Ex. C.) Subsequently,
Petitioner asserts Trustors executed a Junior DOT, which was recorded on
September 15, 2006. (COE, Ex. D.) A beneficiary of the Junior DOT foreclosed on
the Property on November 15, 2022 (“Junior Foreclosure”) and the Trustee’s Deed
Upon Sale (“Junior Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale”) resulting from the Junior
Foreclosure was recorded on January 4, 2023. The Junior Trustee’s Deed Upon
Sale vested ownership in the Property to West Coast Servicing, Inc. (“West
Coast”). (COE, Ex. E.) As such, Petitioner argues the title to the Property at
the time of the sale of the Foreclosing DOT on June 27, 2023, was vested in
West Coast. However, Petitioner asserts the Trustors dispute the Junior DOT’s
validity, thus West Coast’s eligibility to receive the excess proceeds. 
 
“If, after due diligence, the
trustee is unable to determine the priority of the written claims received by
the trustee to the trustee's sale surplus of multiple persons or if the
trustee determines there is a conflict between potential claimants, the trustee
may file a declaration of the unresolved claims and deposit with the clerk of
the superior court of the county in which the sale occurred, that portion of
the sales proceeds that cannot be distributed, less any fees charged by the
clerk pursuant to this subdivision. The declaration shall specify the date
of the trustee's sale, a description of the property, the names and addresses
of all persons sent notice pursuant to subdivision (a), a statement that the
trustee exercised due diligence pursuant to subdivision (b), that the trustee
provided written notice as required by subdivisions (a) and (d), and the amount
of the sales proceeds deposited by the trustee with the court. Further, the
trustee shall submit a copy of the trustee's sales guarantee and any information
relevant to the identity, location, and priority of the potential claimants
with the court and shall file proof of service of the notice required by
subdivision (d) on all persons described in subdivision (a).” (Civ. Code, §
2924j, subd. (c) (emphasis added).)
 
Here, Petitioner has determined there is a conflict between potential
claimants. Further, the declaration complies with Civil Code Section 2924j,
subdivision (a). Similarly, Petitioner has provided a statement of due
diligence pursuant to Civil Code Section 2924j, subdivision (b) and provided
written notice required by subdivisions (a) and (d). (Pet., Attach. 11b.)
Likewise, the Petition and Declaration specifies the amount of the sale
proceeds deposited by Petitioner with the Court. (Pet., ¶16.) Petitioner also
submits the Notice of Intent to Deposit Excess Proceeds mailed to the potential
claimants. (Pet., Attach. 13.) Additionally, Petitioner submits the fees and
costs associated with the trustee sale and instant Petition. (Pet., Attach.
15.) Lastly, Petitioner filed proof of service of the notice required by
subdivision (d) on all potential claimants. (POS, 3/19/24.)
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing,
Petitioner Western Progressive, LLC’s Petition and Declaration Regarding
Unresolved Claims and Deposit of Undistributed Surplus Proceeds of Trustee’s
Sale is GRANTED. The amount of $64,534.29 shall be deposited with the Court. 
 
 
 
                                         
_________________________
                                  Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107,
Van Nuys
September 24, 2024                         Los Angeles County Superior Court
 