  Case Number:  22STCV15796    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




MECHEA
  NELSON, AN INDIVIDUAL,
         
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
FOOD 4
  LESS OF CALIFORNIA, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.
       
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
            22STCV15796     107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT FOOD 4 LESS OF
  CALIFORNIA, INC. MOTIONS TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO DEMAND FOR
  INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET
  ONE, AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
 



 
            Background
On May 12, 2022, Plaintiff Mechea Nelson
(“Plaintiff”) filed a PLD-P1-001 complaint against several defendants incLuding
Ralphs Grocery Company dba Food 4 Less of California (“Defendant”), The Kroger
Co., and DOES 1-10 (collectively, the “Defendants”).
This action arises out of Plaintiff allegedly
slipping on water or a similar substance and falling on Defendants’ premises at
851 Sepulveda, Blvd., Torrance CA, 90502 on May 17, 2020. Plaintiff brings
forth causes of action for (1) general negligence and (2) premises liability.
On November 17, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff
by electronic service with:
1.    
an initial set of written discovery, which
included inter alia Form Interrogatories – General (Set One)[1] (the “FROGs”); and 
2.     an initial set of written discovery, which included inter alia Special
Interrogatories – (Set One) [2] (the “SROGs”);
3.     an
initial set of written discovery, which included inter alia Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One)[3] (the “RPDs”). Having not 
Plaintiff’s deadline to respond to the FROGs, SROGs,
and RPDs (collectively, “Discovery Requests”) was December 19, 2023. (Declaration
of Jennifer W. Naples, (“Naples Decl.”) ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s response deadline was
extended on six occasions, setting the new deadline to April 22, 2024. (Naples
Decl., ¶¶ 4-10, Exhibits 2-8.) By the filing of the instant motions, June 21,
2024, Plaintiff had not yet served any response to the Discovery Requests.
(Naples Decl., ¶ 11.) Defense counsel outlines Plaintiff’s several requests to
extend the deadline which Defendant granted and declares that Defendant made
meet and confer efforts to obtain the responses, though the efforts were not
required. (FROG-Motion, pp. 5, 7.) 
On June 21, 2024, Defendant filed
the three pending motions seeking to compel Plaintiff’s responses to the Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Production Requests sought from Plaintiff.  In connection with each of the motions,
Plaintiff also requests an award of monetary sanctions of $1,061.65. (See
FROG-Naples Decl., ¶ 12, SROG-Naples Decl., ¶ 12, and RPD-Naples Decl., ¶ 12.)  
On July 25, 2024, the case was
reassigned from Judge Karen Moskowitz to Judge Eric Harmon in Department 107 at
Van Nuys Courthouse. (7-25-24 Notice of Case Reassignment.)
On August 1, 2023, Defendant filed
notice of an informal discovery conference to resolve the Discovery Requests on
August 23, 2024. (8-1-24 Notice of Informal Discovery Conference.)
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the three pending motions and request for sanctions.
On August 23, 2024, the Court
corrected the Informal Discovery Conference order nun pro tunc. (8-23-24 Nun
Pro Tunc Order.)
 
On August 20, 2024, Defendant
filed a reply.
On August 26, 2024, the
consolidated motion hearing as to these Discovery Requests was scheduled for
September 4, 2024, and continued, on the Court’s own motion, to September 24,
2024. (9-4-24 Minute Order.)
 
Legal Standard
Interrogatories
            If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(b).)  The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a
set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time
to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
Production
of Documents
            Where
there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents,
the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300(a).)  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel
responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not
attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.
Mandatory Sanctions – Interrogatories & Request
for Production of Documents.
            Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court
“finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Id.)
            Discussion
A.    Production Request and Interrogatories
            Here, Defendant moves the Court to issue orders compelling
the Defendant to produce responses to Plaintiff’s Production Request and
Interrogatories
            As discussed above, Plaintiff’s
deadline to respond to the Production Request and Form and Special Interrogatories
ultimately expired on April 22, 2024, and as of the filing of the
instant motions on June 20, 2024, Plaintiff had not served any responses. (Naples
Decl. ¶ 10.) 
            In opposition to the instant motions, counsel
for Plaintiff argues that no abuse of discovery occurred as Plaintiff was
unresponsive to her attorneys’ phone calls, emails and letters. (Opposition,
pp. 1-2; Declaration of Elina Shakhbazyan (“Shakhbazyan Decl.”) ¶¶ 3-6.) Plaintiff
changed her telephone number and inadvertently failed to notify her own
counsel. (Opposition, p. 2; Shakhbazyan Decl. ¶ 7.) Counsel for Plaintiff
states that Defendant’s counsel was informed of their challenged in locating
Plaintiff, and that several emails captured their efforts to find Plaintiff and
finalize her discovery responses, indicating that if their efforts were not
successful, they intended to file a motion to be relieved as counsel. (Opposition, p. 2:16-19.) Plaintiff’s
counsel claims that despite their efforts to contact Plaintiff, Defendant
proceeded with filing the instant motions. (Shakhbazyan Decl. ¶ 5.)
            According
to Defendant’s reply, Plaintiff and her counsel had not communicated with
Defendant since a March 29, 2024, email in which Plaintiff’s counsel explained
that their office was preparing to be relieved as counsel. (Reply, p. 3.) Defendant
denies Plaintiff’s counsel’s claim that they communicated about their
difficulties contacting Plaintiff, thus necessitating the motion to compel. (Id.)
Defendant observes the seven response deadline extensions that they granted
Plaintiff’s counsel in obtaining discovery and argues for the imposition of
sanctions. (Id.)
            Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiff to produce responses to Defendant’s Request for
Production of Documents and Form and Special Interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2025.280(a), 2030.290(b).)  
 
B.     The
Requests for Monetary Sanctions are Granted in a Reduced Amount
            Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if
the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Id.) 
            Here, Defendant moves the Court to
impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s in the total amount
of $1,061.65 based on the hourly rate of $200.00 being applied to: (1) two hours
to prepare the motion, (2) one hour anticipated to review any opposition papers
and draft a reply, (3) two hours to prepare and attend the motion hearing, and
(3) the $61.65 filing fee.  (See
FROG-Naples Decl., ¶ 12, SROG-Naples Decl., ¶ 12, and RPD-Naples Decl., ¶ 12.)
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues (1)
that sanctions are not appropriate because they are not mandatory and (2)
neither Plaintiff’s counsel nor Plaintiff have abused the discovery process. (Opposition,
pp. 2-3.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that “if the Court decides
to impose sanctions, counsel requests that they be reduced and imposed solely
on the Plaintiff.” (Shakhbazyan Decl. ¶
11.)
In reply, Defendant argues that counsel for
Plaintiff has not produced a legally permissible justification for failing to
respond to the several discovery deadlines. (Reply, p. 4.)
            To escape sanctions, the burden is
on the attorney to prove that the attorney did not advise the client to disobey
the discovery order: “An attorney's advice to a client to answer or not answer
an interrogatory is a fact peculiarly within the knowledge of attorney and
client. To place the burden of proof on the moving party … would effectually …
frustrate the statutory purpose. ( [8:2145] Sanctions for Failure to Obey Court
Order:, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 8M-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel
has sufficiently stated their efforts in contacting Plaintiff on several
occasions ahead of the erroneously scheduled August 20, 2024 informal discovery
conference. (Opposition, p. 2; Exhibit 1.)
            Defendant is entitled to monetary sanctions for reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the motions.  Despite seven mutual extensions to respond, Plaintiff
failed to serve timely responses, necessitating the filing of the motions, and Plaintiff
has still not served responses. Moreover, to
the extent Defendant requests time in connection with appearing at a hearing
for each of the three motions, such a request is duplicative as all three
motions are scheduled for the same day. 
Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the
circumstances, the Court finds the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s
fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending
motions against Plaintiff is $584.95 reflecting 2 hours incurred at $200 per
hour (0.75 hour for drafting one motion and 1 hour for drafting the remaining
two motions at 0.5 hour each, and 0.25 hour for attending the hearing on the
three motions) plus $184.95 in filing fees. 

 
            Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s requests
for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced total amount of $584.95.  
Conclusion
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Plaintiff’s
Motions to Compel Defendant to produce responses for Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One).
 
In addition, the Court GRANTS the Defendant’s
Requests for Monetary Sanctions in the reduced total amount of $584.95 against Plaintiff
Mechea Nelson.
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of this
ruling.
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024                       
________________________________
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


