 Case Number:  23VECV03071    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Alejandra
  Moreno,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Reseda
  Village Green, LLC, et al., 
 
Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
        23VECV03071          107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
Deem RFAs
  Admitted; Compel Responses 
 
 
 
 



 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
This is a landlord-tenant dispute.  On July 21, 2023,
Plaintiff Alejandra Moreno filed a Complaint against Defendants Reseda Village
Green, LLC, Alexander Alvy, FPI Management, Inc., Tegist Demissie, Ricardo Doe,
Carlos Doe, and Does 1 through 40, alleging five different causes of action. 
 
On
April 16, 2024, Defendants Reseda Village Green, LLC and Alvy (hereinafter,
“Defendants”) served RFAs, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One on
Plaintiff via email. (Lakeotes Declaration RFA ¶ 7; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶
7; Ex. D.) Plaintiff’s responses were initially due on May 20, 2024, but
Plaintiff requested three extensions, which Defendants granted. (Lakeotes
Declaration RFA at ¶¶ 7-10; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶¶ 7-10.) Ultimately,
Plaintiff’s responses were due on June 2, 2024, but Plaintiff failed to respond
to Defendants’ RFAs or Special Interrogatories, Set One. (Lakeotes Declaration
RFA at ¶¶ 10-11; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶¶ 10-11.)  Over the next ten
days, Plaintiff sent multiple emails to Defendants stating she would provide
the responses but failed to do so. (Lakeotes Declaration RFA at ¶ 12; Lakeotes
Declaration MTFC ¶ 12.)  
 
On
June 14, 2024, Defendants emailed a meet-and-confer letter to Plaintiff,
requesting Plaintiff serve Defendants with the responses by June 21, 2024.
(Lakeotes Declaration RFA at ¶ 13; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶ 13) A week
later, Plaintiff emailed Defendant stating, “discovery at this time is a waste
of time as I am waiting on your response to my amended complaint and I am sure
the matter will be consolidated under such case.”  (Lakeotes Declaration
RFA at ¶ 14; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶ 14; Ex. J.) Defendants’ counsel
responded to Plaintiff, stating Defendants’ counsel only represents Defendants
in this matter. (Lakeotes Declaration RFA at ¶ 14; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶
14) 
 
On
June 26, 2024, Defendants filed the Motion to Deem RFAs, Set One, Admitted and
requested monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. (Defendants’ Motion to Deem
RFAs, Set One, Admitted at pp. 1-2, 4.) On July 2, 2024, Defendants filed the
Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Plaintiff to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and requested monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.  The Court
notes that in the Court Reservation System (“CRS”) Defendants improperly titled
this a Motion to Compel Further Responses; however, based on the substance of
the motion and the procedural posture of Plaintiff’s non-response to discovery
requests at its filing, it is in fact a Motion to Compel Responses.   
 
On August 21, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of
non-opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Deem RFAs, Set One, Admitted. (Notice
of Non-Opposition.)  
 
On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed two Separate Statements.
(Plaintiff Alejandra Moreno’s Declaration Separate Statement; Declaration pltff
Alejandra Moreno’s Declaration.) These appear to be oppositions to the instant
motions.  
 
II.            
MOTION TO DEEM RFAS ADMITTED 
 
A.   
Deem Admitted¿ 
 
When a party fails
to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party may move
for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280(b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to
the demand, unless the court grants them relief from the waiver, upon a showing
that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response,
and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280(a)(1)-(2).)¿  
 
The court shall
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280(c).)¿ “Subdivision (c) of section 2033.280 requires the court
to evaluate whether the ‘proposed response to the requests for
admission’ substantially complies with section 2033.220.” (St. Mary v.
Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 779.)  
 
Here, Defendants
served RFAs, Set One, on Plaintiff on April 16, 2024. (Lakeotes
Declaration RFA ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff did not respond to Defendants’ RFAs, Set
One. (Id. ¶ 11.) On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed two Separate
Statements with the Court. (Plaintiff Alejandra Moreno’s Declaration;
Declaration Pltff) But Plaintiff’s Separate Statements do not contain responses
to Defendants’ RFAs, Set One. Thus, Defendants are entitled to an order deeming
RFAs, Set One, admitted.
                
B.    
Monetary Sanctions¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)¿ 
 
Here, Defendants
seek $2,660.00 in monetary sanctions. (Lakeotes Declaration RFAs ¶ 16; Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted at p. 4.) This includes
ten hours preparing the motion, three hours reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition
brief and preparing Defendants’ reply brief and one hour for the hearing.
(Lakeotes Declaration RFAs ¶ 16.) 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s failure to respond to Defendants’ discovery requests a misuse of
the discovery process.  The Court is also required to impose a monetary
sanction on Plaintiff for failure to respond to the Requests for Admission
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c).¿ However, the
amount sought is excessive given the simplicity of this Motion and the lack of
opposition and reply. Thus, the Court finds a reduction of time spent preparing
the motion is warranted and reduces the ten hours requested to seven hours. The
court also finds the time spent reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition brief and
preparing Defendants’ reply is not warranted because Plaintiff filed no
opposition and Defendants filed no reply.  
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff is granted in the
reduced total amount of $1,520.00, reflecting seven hours of preparation for
the original motion and one hour for the hearing at $190 per hour.  
 
III.             
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES
 
A.   
Failure to Respond 
 
“If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response . .
. [that party] waives any right to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as
well as any objection to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.290.)
“The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. [and] (2) The party’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.” (Id.)  
 
Defendants
argue the court should grant its motion because Plaintiff failed to provide any
responses to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories, Set One. (Memorandum of
Points and Authorities at 1.) Plaintiff argues Defendants’ discovery requests
are burdensome and oppressive. (Plaintiff Declaration at p.6.)  
 
A
party waives his or her objections to interrogatories if he or she fails to
serve a timely response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.290.) Here, Defendants served
Plaintiff with Special Interrogatories, Set One, on April 16, 2024. (Lakeotes
Declaration MTFC
¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s responses were originally due on
May 20, 2024, but the deadline was extended multiple times. (Id. at
¶¶ 8-12.) Ultimately, Plaintiff’s responses were
due on June 21, 2024. (Id. at ¶¶ 7, 13.)  But Plaintiff did
not serve Defendant with responses. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p.
3; Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶¶ 14-15.) And
Plaintiff has not subsequently served responses to Defendants’ Special
Interrogatories, Set One, that substantially comply with the statutes. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has waived her objections to Defendants’ Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Defendants’ motion to compel response is granted. 
 
B.    
Sanctions 
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).)  
 
Defendants request
attorneys’ fees totaling $2,660.00. (Lakeotes Declaration MTFC ¶ 16.) This includes ten hours for preparing the motion,
three hours reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition brief and preparing Defendants’
reply, and one hour for hearing time. (Id.)  
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff did not act with substantial justification and no other
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  The Court also
finds Plaintiff’s failure to respond to Defendants’ discovery requests a misuse
of the discovery process.  Thus, the Court finds a reduction of time spent
preparing the motion is warranted and reduces the ten hours requested to seven hours.
The Court also finds the time spent reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition brief and
preparing Defendants’ reply is not warranted because Plaintiff filed no
opposition and Defendants filed no reply.  
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff is granted in the
reduced total amount of $1,520.00, reflecting seven hours of preparation for
the original motion and one hour for the hearing at $190 per hour. 
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing
reasons, Defendants’ Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters in RFAs, Set One
Admitted as to Plaintiff is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Response to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories, Set One
is GRANTED 
 
Defendants’
request for sanctions as to Plaintiff is also granted in the amount of
$3,040.00 to be paid by Plaintiff to Defendants’ counsel within thirty (30)
days of notice of this order.¿ 
 
Moving party to
give notice.¿ 
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024                       
________________________________
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court