 Case Number:  23LBCV01725    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Angelica Arreguin-Aguilar and Jose A. Arechiga-Perez filed
this action against Defendant, Joan M. Attwell for damages arising out of an
automobile accident.  
 
2.     Discovery
Motions
a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant filed these motions on
4/30/24.  The premise of the motions is
that Defendant propounded FROGs, SROGs, RPDs, and RFAs on Plaintiffs on 2/05/24,
Plaintiffs sought and Defendant granted several extensions of time to respond,
but as of the filing of the motion, all extensions had expired and no responses
had been served.
 
Plaintiffs filed opposition to the
motions on 6/10/24.  The crux of the
opposition papers is that Plaintiffs served timely responses, per the parties’
extension agreement, on 4/19/24, such that the motions must be denied.  Plaintiffs contend the time to file motions
to compel further responses has expired, so the motions are entirely moot.
 
Defendant filed reply papers to the
interrogatory and RPD motions on 6/28/24. 
Defendant did not file any reply relating to the RFAs.  The crux of the reply papers is that Defendant
first received these responses when she received the opposition papers, and
they had never been previously served. 
Additionally, Defendant contends the responses to RFAs and FROGs are
sufficient, but the responses to SROGs and RPDs consist solely of boilerplate
objections and are deficient.
 
Plaintiffs filed objections to the
reply documents on 7/01/24.  Plaintiffs
contend the reply papers are based on inadmissible hearsay, it was poor
practice to file motions to compel prior to meeting and conferring, and the
Court cannot consider a motion to compel further responses without meet and
confer or a separate statement, especially when the argument is made for the
first time in reply.  
 
b.     Objections
Defendant supports its reply papers
with the Declaration of Defense Counsel Dean L. Chalamidas, who declares the
only thing his firm received in connection with the discovery was verifications
on 5/20/24, AFTER the motions were filed. 
He contends he never received any responses to the discovery, let alone
timely responses.  
 
Defendant also supports the reply
with the Declaration of Stephanie Navarro, the legal secretary for Chalamidas,
who declares she never received the responses and only received the
verifications on 5/20/24.  She also
declares she contacted the IT department, which confirmed no email had been
received and blocked by the server, and if that had happened, a bounce message
would have gone to Plaintiffs’ attorney. 

 
The Court sustains the objection to
¶5 of Navarro’s declaration, as her statements about what IT told her are
hearsay without exception.  The Court
finds, however, that the Chalamidas and Navarro declarations are sufficient to
establish that, for whatever reason, any served documents were not
received.  Notably, it would be
nonsensical to file motions to compel initial responses and deem RFAs admitted
if one had received responses.  
 
The Court is not finding Plaintiffs
failed to serve the responses, only that, for whatever reason, they were not
received if and when they were served on 4/19/24.  For purposes of this litigation, the
responses are deemed to have been served on 6/10/24, the same day Plaintiffs
filed opposition to the motions.  
 
If Defendant believes the responses
are deficient, Defendant must initiate the meet and confer process and file any
motions to compel further responses within 45 days from 6/10/24, unless the
parties agree to extend that time. 
Plaintiffs are advised that boilerplate objections are rarely sufficient
responses to discovery, and if they wish to avoid sanctions, they should
seriously consider which objections they can justify and whether supplemental
responses are necessary.  
 
The Court is not imposing sanctions
at this time.  The Court finds the
discovery dispute before it was caused by an unknown breakdown in email
communication, such that sanctions are not appropriate.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.