 Case Number:  23LBCV01255    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Eric Cleveland filed this action against Defendants, Cancun
Properties LLC, Anjai Savire LLC, and Sirenitas Restaurant, Inc. for violations
of the ADA and UNRUH, contending he has osteoarthritis and Defendants’ property
is in violation of the ADA and UNRUH because it needs to have an asphalt
overlap in the parking area and needs to have work done on the disabled parking
space for the property.  
 
2.     Motions to Compel
a.     Procedural History
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel on 4/15/24, setting it for hearing
on 6/20/24.  The motion seeks to compel
further responses to RPDs, further responses to FROGs, further responses to
RFAs, and the depositions of David Yashar and Fernaz Esther Fard.  
 
On 6/07/24, Defendant filed opposition to the portion of the motion
seeking to compel the depositions of Yashar and Fard.  On 6/08/24, Defendant filed opposition to the
portion of the motion seeking to compel further responses to RPDs, FROGs, and
RFAs.  
 
On 6/12/24, Plaintiff filed reply papers in response to the opposition.  
 
On 6/20/24, the Court heard the motion. 
To the extent the motion sought to compel the depositions of Yashar and
Fard, the Court granted the motion.  To
the extent the motion sought to compel further responses to discovery, the
Court agreed with Defendant’s position that each motion needed to be separately
filed and filing fees for each motion needed to be made.  The Court disagreed, however, with
Defendant’s contention that the motion should be summarily denied on this
ground.  
 
The Court continued the hearing on the motion to require Plaintiff to
file three separate motions and pay three separate filing fees.  The Court ruled, in pertinent part:
The Court notes that the parties
have another discovery motion on calendar on 7/25/24.  The hearing on this motion is continued to
7/25/24, to be heard concurrently with the currently scheduled discovery
motion.  Plaintiff must pay the three
additional filing fees prior to the hearing if he wishes to have the motions
heard.  The parties must meet and confer
in good faith forthwith.  If Defendant
believes its responses are sufficient, it must file timely substantive
opposition to the motion pursuant to Code. 
Reply papers must also be filed pursuant to Code.  
 
b.     Continued
Hearing
On 7/01/24, in compliance with the
Court’s order, Plaintiff filed three separate motions to compel further
responses.  The motions are directed to
RFAs, RPDs, and interrogatories.  Any
opposition to the motions was due on or before 7/12/24.  Defendant has not, to date, filed timely
opposition to the motions.  The Court
will not consider late-filed opposition papers. 

 
Defendant’s responses to the
subject discovery consist solely of boilerplate objections.  The burden to justify an objection to a
discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  In light of
the lack of opposition, Defendant has necessarily failed to meet this
burden.  The motions to compel are
granted.  Defendant is ordered to serve
further responses, without objections, to all outstanding discovery, within ten
days.
 
c.     Sanctions

Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the
amount of $4048.75 in connection with the motions to compel further responses
and $2172.50 in connection with the previously ruled upon motion to compel
depositions.  The Court finds Defendants
took their position in good faith and with substantial justification in
connection with the motion to compel depositions, and no sanctions are
imposed.     
 
Because Defendant did not oppose
the motions to compel further responses, Defendant necessarily failed to show
good cause or substantial justification for its failure to provide
code-compliant responses to the outstanding discovery.  Sanctions are therefore appropriate.  Plaintiff’s attorney, however, fails to
provide any meaningful description of his time billed in connection with the
motions.  He merely states, at ¶25 of his
declaration, “Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure, § 2023.030(a),
§2031.310(h), and §2031.320(b), I am seeking sanctions in the amount of
$6,221.25 as follows: Motion Drafting related to the failure of Defendant
Cancun Properties LLC to submit David Yashar and Farnaz Esther Fard for
deposition – 5.5 hours………………….$2,172.50; and Motion Drafting related to the
failure of Defendants to adequately respond to written discovery – 10.25
hours………………...$4,048.75.”
 
Plaintiff’s attorney bills at the
rate of $395/hour.  The Court awards four
hours to prepare the motions and one hour to appear at the hearing, for a total
of five hours, or $1975 in attorneys’ fees. 
The Court awards three filing fees of $60 each, or $180 in costs.  Defendants and their attorney of record,
jointly and severally, are ordered to pay sanctions in the total amount of
$2155 to Plaintiff, by and through his attorney of record, within twenty
days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 