 Case Number:  22LBCV01086    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Martha Valdez filed her First Amended Complaint against her
daughter, Defendant, Martha Diaz, on 5/18/23. 
The FAC arose out of Defendant’s alleged fraudulent transfer of
Plaintiff’s property to Defendant.  The
FAC included causes of action for quiet title, declaratory and injunctive
relief, intentional misrepresentation (fraud), elder abuse, willful
concealment, constructive fraud, negligence, and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
On 11/28/23, the Court heard a demurrer to the FAC.  The Court sustained the demurrer in part and
overruled it in part, resulting in Plaintiff filing the operative Second
Amended Complaint on 12/18/23.  The SAC
includes causes of action for quiet title, declaratory and injunctive relief,
intentional misrepresentation (fraud), willful concealment, elder abuse,
negligence, and civil conspiracy to commit fraud.  
 
2.     Demurrer

a.    
Meet and Confer
Defense Counsel, Steven J. Renick
filed a meet and confer declaration in support of the demurrer.  Renick declares that attorney Adam Afshar
sent a meet and confer letter and that he is informed and believed that Afshar
attempted to contact Plaintiff’s attorney by phone and email but was
unsuccessful and received no response.
 
The meet and confer letter is not
attached to the demurrer.  There is no
explanation for why Renick, rather than Afshar, filed the declaration, which
lacks personal knowledge.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff’s attorney did
not respond, in the opposition to the demurrer, to the accusation that he
failed to return meet and confer efforts. 
The Court notes an ongoing problem with Plaintiff’s attorney failing to
communicate, failing to address issues in papers, failing to file timely
papers, and failing to file complete papers. 
The Court admonishes Plaintiff’s attorney to be thorough in the future
in connection with this action if he wishes to avoid imposition of
sanctions.  
 
The Court is continuing the hearing
on the demurrer to require the parties to meet and confer in good faith.  The Court will provide guidance, below,
concerning the issues to be discussed by Counsel.  
 
b.     Initial
Note
Plaintiff’s opposition papers are
missing page 15.  If Plaintiff re-files
opposition papers, she must ensure the papers are complete.  
c.     Verification
Defendant demurred on the ground
that a verification was not attached, and Plaintiff concedes, in opposition,
that this is the case.  Plaintiff
attaches the proposed verification as an exhibit.  Defendant, in reply, correctly notes that the
verification must be attached to the complaint, and therefore the complaint
must be amended.  Defendant indicates she
may attack the quiet title cause of action substantively if it is
verified.  The Court asks the parties to
meet and confer on ALL issues, including the substance of the quiet title cause
of action, before filing a pleading challenge. 
If the demurrer to the SAC is ultimately heard on its merits (discussed
below), Defendant must bring ALL pleading challenges, including to the
substance of the quiet title cause of action, in the demurrer.  Defendant may not file a piecemeal demurrer
attacking one aspect of a claim at a time. 

 
d.     Specificity
The Court previously sustained a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fraud-based claims on the ground that they are not pled
with the requisite specificity.  Notably,
the Court did so because Plaintiff’s opposition was entirely silent on the
issue of the sufficiency of the fraud allegations.  Plaintiff amended, and Defendant again raises
this challenge.  
 
Defendant challenges the fraud,
concealment, and negligence causes of action due to lack of specificity.  The parties must meet and confer on the
following issues:
·        
Is the third cause of action for fraud pled with
specificity;
·        
What, if any, specificity is required in
connection with the fourth cause of action for concealment; notably, a
plaintiff cannot possibly plead when, where, how, and by what means something
was concealed, as the nature of the claim is that something was NOT said, as
opposed to said;
·        
Is the negligence cause of action a negligent
misrepresentation cause of action or a mere negligence cause of action?  Depending on which it is, is specificity
required or not required?
e.     Elder
Abuse
The Court previously sustained a
demurrer to the elder abuse cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff was
under the age of 65 when Defendant engaged in the allegedly abusive acts.  Plaintiff amended her complaint to add
various allegations concerning acts that occurred after she was 65.  Defendant argues none of these allegations
constitute elder abuse because they do not establish taking, retaining,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal property.  Defendant appears to be incorrect.  By way of example, at ¶85, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant took and smashed her Ring Camera. 
Defendant argues this isn’t taking, retaining, appropriating, obtaining,
or retaining real or personal property. 
It seems, however, that this would be taking and destroying personal
property.  The parties must meet and
confer.  
 
f.      Conspiracy
to Commit Fraud
Defendant correctly notes that the
Court’s prior order did not permit Plaintiff to add a new cause of action in an
amended complaint.  The portion of
Plaintiff’s opposition addressing this issue was not included in her filed
opposition papers, as noted above.  The
parties must meet and confer.  The Court
would prefer that the parties stipulate to the filing of an additional cause of
action rather than requiring a motion for leave to amend if the cause of action
can ultimately be properly pled.  
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike the
prayer for punitive damages and related allegations, the prayer for attorneys’
fees and related allegations, and various allegations in the FAC that she
contends are irrelevant.  Plaintiff
failed to file opposition to the motion to strike.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff also failed to
file opposition to motion to strike directed at the FAC, which resulted in a
tentative ruling granting the motion without leave to amend.  The Court ultimately agreed to grant leave to
amend, but Plaintiff has continued to fail to file opposition.  
 
The Court is continuing the hearing
on the motion to strike as well as the hearing on the demurrer.  If Plaintiff wishes to avoid a court order
granting the motion to strike without leave to amend, she must file opposition
to the motion to strike.  
 
4.     Conclusion
The hearing on the demurrer and
motion to strike is continued for six weeks, to Thursday, 9/05/24.  The parties must meet and confer, in good
faith, forthwith.  If the parties are
able to resolve their issues, Plaintiff must file an amended complaint and
Defendant must use the online reservation system to take the matters off
calendar.  
 
If the parties are unable to
resolve their issues, the parties must file all new demurrer, motion to strike,
opposition, and reply papers, per Code, addressing each of the issues
above.  
 
5.     Order
to Show Cause
There is an OSC on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike today.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer, motion to strike, and OSC. 
 