 Case Number:  23LBCV02106    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Brian Biggers filed this action against Defendants, Long
Beach Colonial Homes Homeowners Association, Inc. and Christine Perez on
11/06/23.  The crux of the complaint is
that the entity defendant was administratively dissolved by the FTB on
11/22/19, but the individual defendant has continued to run the entity
defendant as though it is an active corporation, in violation of Corporations
Code §2010(a).  Plaintiff’s complaint
includes causes of action for declaratory relief and accounting.    
 
2.    
Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he emailed
Plaintiff’s attorney to meet and confer, and followed up with a phone call the
next day, but Plaintiff’s attorney did not respond.  Plaintiff’s attorney is admonished to
participate in the meet and confer process in the future in connection with
this and other actions.
 
c.     First
Cause of Action, Declaratory Relief
i.             
Allegations of First Cause of Action
Plaintiff’s first cause of action
seeks the following declarations:
a. So long as the Association has
been dissolved, Defendants are not authorized by law to conduct any business of
the Association other than such as is necessary for the winding up of the
corporation; 
b. Defendants are not authorized by
law to collect assessments or any other monies from the membership, including
Plaintiff, for any purpose other than actions relating to the winding up of the
corporation;  
c. Defendants are not authorized to
incur debts on behalf of the Association for any purpose other than actions
relating to winding up the corporation;  
d. Defendants are not authorized to
take enforcement action against any member, including Plaintiff, for allegedly
violating any purported Association governing documents unless and until (i)
such governing documents have been lawfully adopted by the Association and/or
its members, recorded and/or deliver to the members (as applicable) and
according to law;  
e. Defendants are not authorized to
take such action as set forth in subsection d. above unless and until the
Association becomes a lawfully operating entity;  
f. Plaintiff is not obligated to
pay any monies to the Association or anyone acting on behalf of the
Association, until such time as the Association is authorized to conduct
business in the state of California;
g. In order to conduct regular
business of the Association, Defendants are required by law to cure the status
of the Association with the Secretary of State such that the Association is
either reinstated as a corporation in good standing; or is legally reorganized
as a lawful unincorporated association; 
h. Upon winding up the corporation,
all Association assets are to be distributed equally to each member of the
Association. 
 
ii.            
Analysis
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action, contending that, since
the HOA no longer exists per the allegations of the complaint, the cause of
action is unintelligible and subject to demurrer for uncertainty.  Additionally, Defendant contends the
declaratory relief cause of action is derivative of the accounting cause of
action, and because it fails, the declaratory relief cause of action also
fails.
 
Plaintiff correctly notes, in opposition to the demurrer, that he
alleges the HOA has been dissolved, but continues to operate, such that there
is no uncertainty in the allegations of the complaint.  Plaintiff also correctly notes, in opposition
to the demurrer, that the declarations sought are not derivative of the
accounting cause of action, and the declaratory relief cause of action
therefore does not rise and fall with the accounting cause of action, which
seeks separate and distinct relief.
 
Defendant, in reply, drops the two arguments made in demurrer and
instead contends the declarations sought are retroactive in nature and not
prospective in nature, such that they cannot support a cause of action.  The argument is improper because it is made
for the first time in reply. 
Additionally, the declarations sought clearly concern the parties’
rights and responsibilities going forward, and therefore the demurrer is not well-taken.  
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action for declaratory relief is
overruled.
 
d.    
Second
Cause of Action, Accounting
Plaintiff’s second cause of action seeks an accounting of the monies
she has wrongfully paid to the association, how those monies have been used,
and whether the monies have been used lawfully. 
The parties agree on the law in this regard.  They both agree that an accounting is
appropriate if either (a) the parties stand in a fiduciary relationship, and/or
(b) there is a balance due by the defendant to the plaintiff that can only be
determined through an accounting.  
 
Defendant contends neither exist here. 
Plaintiff concedes there is no fiduciary relationship.  Defendant contends there is no need for an
accounting because Plaintiff has equal knowledge of what amounts she has paid
to Defendant.  Defendant fails to address
the purpose of the accounting, which is not to determine what amounts Plaintiff
paid to Defendant, but how those amounts were used by Defendant and whether
that use was lawful.  
 
The demurrer is overruled.
e.    
Final
Note
While not raised by the parties, the Court has a concern about this
case in general.  Plaintiff alleges the
HOA has been dissolved.  It is the
Court’s understanding that an HOA must exist and govern a community such as the
one at issue in this case.  While not
directly relevant to the ruling on the demurrer, the Court does ask the parties
to meet and confer in an attempt to determine how the community should be
governed going forward in light of the dissolution of the HOA.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.