 Case Number:  23LBCV01090    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Cheryl Garlow Garcia filed this action against Defendant,
John F. Kellogg for damages and injunctive relief arising out of the parties’
joint ownership of Nominal Defendant, Island Donuts, LLC.  Plaintiff’s operative complaint is her First
Amended Complaint, which she filed on 2/16/24. 
The FAC includes causes of action for judicial expulsion, conversion,
improper distributions, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, and injunctive
and declaratory relief.    
 
2.     Demurrer

a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant demurs to the sixth cause
of action in the FAC for injunctive and declaratory relief, contending it fails
to state a claim and is uncertain.  He
contends the body of the FAC fails to indicate what declaration Plaintiff seeks
by way of the cause of action.  He
contends the cause of action is uncertain because it improperly groups two
causes of action into one.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
demurrer, contends she clearly alleges a controversy relating to the parties’
claims to Island Donuts, which controversy must be resolved by way of judicial
declaration.  
 
Defendant, in reply, argues the
opposition does nothing to clarify the allegations of the FAC, and the demurrer
should be sustained.  
 
b.    Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
attorneys met and conferred by telephone, but were unable to resolve their
dispute.  The demurrer is therefore ripe
for judicial determination.
 
d.     Analysis
Plaintiff’s FAC, in the caption,
indicates she is asserting a sixth cause of action for “injunctive and
declaratory relief.”  The sixth cause of
action in the body of the FAC is labeled as one for “preliminary injunction.”  Defendant correctly notes that this defect
renders the FAC uncertain.  Notably, the
body of the sixth cause of action contains absolutely no facts seeking a
judicial declaration or stating what declaration Plaintiff desires.  It contains only a paragraph incorporating
all other paragraphs by reference (many of which allege a contractual dispute,
but none of which allege a specific desired judicial declaration), and then one
paragraph indicating Plaintiff seeks an injunction against Defendant.
 
Plaintiff’s opposition does nothing
to clarify the uncertainty.  Rather than
conceding the sixth cause of action is ONLY for injunctive relief, she argues
the sixth cause of action adequately states a claim for declaratory
relief.  
 
Plaintiff must amend her complaint
to clarify whether she seeks declaratory relief, injunctive relief, or
both.  If she seeks both, she must assert
the causes of action separately from each other and detail exactly what
judicial declaration she seeks.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.  Plaintiff must file an
amended complaint within twenty days. 
Defendant must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.

 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.