  Case Number:  22LBCV00062    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Hany Hegazy, Taha Deif,
Moustafa Ahmed Shokr, and TMH, LLC filed this action against Defendants, Giang
Hong and Hai Hong on 2/10/22.  Plaintiffs
added Suong Thi Trinh as a doe defendant. 
Notably, Giang Hong has passed away. 

 
On 12/13/22, Trinh filed a demurrer
to the complaint.  Prior to the hearing,
Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint on 3/15/23.  The FAC included causes of action for conversion,
fraud and deceit, breach of written lease contracts, and breach of oral
contract.  
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants agreed
to lease commercial property to them, and represented to them the property was
zoned for the use that they intended. 
Plaintiffs allege they spent $70,000 building out the property, but were
unable to obtain permits to operate their intended mini-market and smoke shop
because the premises were not zoned for such use.  
 
On 12/07/23, the Court sustained
Trinh’s demurrer in part and granted his motion to strike in part.  The Court granted leave to amend.  On 12/27/23, Plaintiffs filed their operative
Second Amended Complaint.  The SAC
includes causes of action for conversion, fraud, and breach of written lease
contracts.  
 

Motion to Strike

Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages, as well as a variety of other
allegations.  
 
a.    
Punitive Damages
Defendant argues punitive damages
cannot be awarded because Defendant is defending the suit in his capacity as
Decedent’s successor-in-interest, as the actual defendant, Giang Hong, died
before suit was filed.  Defendant also
argues fraud, malice, or oppression is not pled.
 
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 7/10/24.  Plaintiffs
have not filed timely opposition to the motion, and the Court will not consider
late-filed opposition papers.  In light
of the lack of opposition, the Court finds Plaintiffs have abandoned their
claim for punitive damages, and grants the motion without leave to amend.  
 
b.     Non-Economic
Damages
Defendant also moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for noneconomic damages, including emotional distress,
anxiety, and humiliation.  Again, in
light of the lack of opposition, the Court finds Plaintiffs have abandoned this
claim, and the motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.    
 
c.     Accounting
Plaintiffs’ complaint requests an
accounting.  In light of the lack of
opposition, the motion to strike all references to an accounting is granted
without leave to amend.
 

Conclusion

The motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend.  Defendant is
ordered to file an answer to the SAC, with the subject allegations deemed
stricken, within ten days.
 

OSC

The parties are reminded that there
is an OSC re: failure to file proof of service and an OSC re: failure to
prosecute on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to strike.  The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion to strike and OSC.  