 Case Number:  23LBCV02391    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jane KR Doe, a minor, by and through her GAL, Jane TR Doe,
filed this action against Defendants, LBUSD, Jill Baker, Rebecca Caverly, and
Brianna Flotree for damages arising out of sexual abuse perpetrated on
Plaintiff by another student at the school. 
The individual defendants are the superintendent, principal, and teacher
allegedly responsible for allowing the abuse to occur.
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses
a.     Parties’
Positions
Plaintiff propounded RPDs on LBUSD,
and some of the RPDs sought production of documents relating to the student who
perpetrated the abuse.  The RPDs sought
documents such as prior discipline records of the student, communication
between authorities at the school concerning the student, prior
complaints/litigation/reports of abuse by the student against others, etc.  Defendant responded by asserting various
objections, including that it was obligated to assert the privacy rights of the
third party student under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA).  Plaintiff concedes Defendant
was obligated to assert the FERPA objection, and Defendant can only produce the
documents with a court order to do so. 
Plaintiff therefore filed this motion to compel further responses,
pursuant to which Plaintiff seeks a court order overruling the FERPA objection
and compelling production of the subject documents.
 
Defendant opposes the motion.  It argues Plaintiff failed to meet and confer
prior to filing the motion and failed to make a showing of good cause in the
moving papers.  It contends Plaintiff
failed to show a compelling need for the documents that overcomes the third
party’s right to privacy.  It contends
Plaintiff was required to serve the third party student with notice of this
motion.  Finally, it contends that, to
the extent there is other litigation that has resulted in confidential
settlement, Plaintiff improperly seeks to compel production of documents
related to a confidential settlement.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends the
meet and confer efforts were sufficient. 
Plaintiff contends both good cause and a compelling need have been
shown.  Plaintiff contends the parties
have been working in good faith to draft a mutually agreeable protective order
concerning the private information. 
Plaintiff contends notice to a third party is not necessary.  
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
The Court finds the showing of meet
and confer was sufficient.  Plaintiff’s
attorney filed a meet and confer declaration with the moving papers.  More importantly, a FERPA objection must be
asserted by a defendant, and can only be overruled by court order.  It is, therefore, unclear how additional meet
and confer efforts could have resolved the parties’ issues.  
c.     Good
Cause/Compelling Need 
The Court finds the good cause and
compelling need requirements are satisfied. 
While the moving papers could have been more detailed in this regard,
the need for the documents is obvious. 
Plaintiff is asserting a claim for failure to supervise, etc., against
the defendants, and an element of that claim would be notice to the defendants
that the student was engaging in abusive behavior.  The requested documents go directly to that
issue, such that the good cause and compelling need requirements are, on their
face, established.
 
d.     Notice
The most difficult issue presented
is whether the third party was entitled to notice of this motion.  The law in this regard is as follows:
The person whose privacy is
involved must be given notice of the discovery request and an opportunity to
object to the invasion of the person's privacy prior to disclosure.  Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975)
15 Cal.3d 652, 658;  Life Technologies
Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 656.  
 
Alternatively, the court may order
the party from whom disclosure is sought to ask the third persons for their
permission to disclose confidential information. Disclosure is then permitted
only as to those who give permission; and counsel are barred from contacting
those who do not. Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 794-795.  
 
The court must decide which notice
method is appropriate in a particular case. 
Olympic Club v. Superior Court (1991) 229 CA3d 358, 364-365.
Also, a litigant “may assert the
privacy rights of third parties.” [County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2021) 65 CA5th 621, 635.  
Plaintiff asks the Court to use the
second method, having Defendant ask the student for permission to obtain the
records.  The Court is fine with this
method, but notes that, in the event the student declines the request, Plaintiff
will need to reserve a new hearing date on the motion and serve the motion on
the student before the Court can grant the relief requested.  
 
e.     Prior
Settlements
Defendant’s final contention is
that the requests seek prior litigation relating to the student and, to the
extent there was a prior settlement and the prior settlement was confidential,
those records cannot be produced.  To the
extent these records exist, the parties must meet and confer.  A protective order can be used to protect any
confidential information.  
 
f.      Conclusion
Defendant is ordered to ask the
third party for permission to produce the requested documents.  If the third party refuses, then Plaintiff
may re-file the motion (or an amended variation on the motion if preferred, it
need not be exactly the same motion already filed) with proper notice to the
student.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.