  Case Number:  19GDCV00125    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
6, 2024                            DISPOSED: January 29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         TIANGANG SUN, a
natural person; and XIANGMING SUN, a natural person, v. KYN GROUP, a California
Corporation; KWN LLC, a California limited liability company; JACK ng, a
natural person; AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDEMNITY COMPANY, a California
Corporation; and DOES 1 to 50.
 
 
CASE NO.:                 19GDCV00125
 
 
 
MOTION TO TAX COSTS 

 
MOVING PARTY:              Defendants KYN Group; KWN,
LLC; Jack Ng; and Kwok Ng (“Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Tiangang Sun and Xiangming Sun
(“Plaintiffs”)
 
 
SERVICE:                             Filed
February 20, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                      Filed
April 19, 2024
 
REPLY:                                  Filed April 26, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendants move for an
order striking Plaintiffs’ memorandum of costs.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Tiangang Sun and Xiangming Sun (“Plaintiffs”) allege that
defendants KYN Group, KWN LLC, Jack Ng, American Contractors Indemnity, Kwok
Yuen Ng, and Does 2 to 50, (“Defendants”) promised to build a home for
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that they paid Defendants over a million dollars
for the construction project. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants diverted funds
to other projects or failed to use the money towards Plaintiff’s home.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants have failed to complete the construction. 
 
            Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on November 10, 2021, alleging ten causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealings, (3)
Negligence, (4), Diversion of Construction Funds [Penal Code section 484b], (5)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (6) Recovery on Contractor’s License Bond, (7)
Violation of Business & Professions Code section 7086, (8) Unfair Business
Practices [Bus.& Prof. Code section 17200]; (9) Unjust Enrichment, and (10)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion to tax costs is
DENIED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b), provides: “Except
as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a
matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.” “A prevailing
party who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days
after the date of service of the notice of entry of
judgment . . . .” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700, subd. (a)(1).) “Any
notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be served and filed 15 days
after service of the cost memorandum.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700, subd.
(b)(1).)
 
               “If items on a
memorandum of costs appear to be proper charges on their face, those items are
prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services are proper and
necessarily incurred. [citations.] The burden then shifts to the objecting
party to show them to be unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Doe v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Children & Family Services (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 675, 693.) “In
ruling upon a motion to tax costs, the trial court's first determination is
whether the statute expressly allows the particular item and whether it appears
proper on its face. ‘If so, the burden is on the objecting party to show [the
costs] to be unnecessary or unreasonable.’ [citation.] (Foothill-De Anza
Community College Dist. v. Emerich (2007 ) 158 Cal.App.4th 11, 29.) 
 
            “[T]he mere
filing of a motion to tax costs may be a ‘proper objection’ to an item, the
necessity of which appears doubtful, or which does not appear to be proper on
its face. [citation.] However, ‘[i]f the items appear to be proper charges, the
verified memorandum is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and
services therein listed were necessarily incurred by the defendant [citations],
and the burden of showing that an item is not properly chargeable or is
unreasonable is upon the [objecting party].’ ” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131.) 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice is GRANTED as to exhibits 1 through 5. However, for the future,
Plaintiffs should file a separate filing when requesting judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move for an order taxing, Plaintiffs’ memorandum of costs as
to Item 8(b)(5) Expert Fees, $43,072.10, Court Reporter/Transcript Fees, Item
11, $9,158.01, and photocopy charges in the amount of $99.75.
 
            Defendants assert that the expert
witness fees are not recoverable as Plaintiffs did not provide a section 998
Offer to Compromise. They contend that even if expert fees were considered
recoverable, Plaintiffs fail to substantiate their request for $43,072.10 in
expert fees with adequate documentation, including a declaration of counsel and
paid invoices pursuant to Levy v. Toyota Motor Sales (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 806. Defendants point out specific overcharges, such as the claim
involving John E. Altstadt, who billed nearly $30,000 for 73.35 hours of work.
They argue his involvement was unnecessary, as his testimony regarding lost
rental value was contradicted by Plaintiffs’ own admission of no incurred
losses, and the Court ultimately did not award damages based on his testimony.
Defendants also criticize the charges related to other expert witnesses, Gregg
Freedman and David Stern, who only visited the property once and could not have
justifiably billed for 18.3 hours each. Further, Defendants assert that their
deposition costs were already covered by the Defendants such that further
expert fees are unwarranted.
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
should only recover the statutory amount for court reporter fees as distinct
from transcript costs, pointing out that the costs for the court reporter were
equally shared between the parties. Defendants state that the per diem fee was $764.00
for the 5 days of trial, totaling $3,825.00 paid by Defendants. 
 
            Defendants argue that the requested
charges of $99.95 should be disallowed since such expenses, including copying
documents and related administrative charges, are typically not shifted to the non-prevailing
party unless explicitly permitted by law. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs assert
that the restated contract and line of credit promissory note permitted the
prevailing party to recover all costs, not just statutory costs. The Restated
Contract states in paragraph 7 that the “prevailing Part(ies) in such action
and/or proceeding shall be entitled to recover from the other(s) all reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred by such Part(ies) in the action and/or
proceeding” [emphasis added] (See Exhibit 1). By agreeing to this term,
Plaintiffs assert that both parties agreed that the prevailing party was
entitled to recover all expenses they incurred in litigation. The Line of Credit Promissory Note state in
paragraph 7 that the Defendants “[agree] to pay, in addition to the principal
and interest payable hereunder, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred
by” the Plaintiffs to collect on the note [emphasis added] (See Exhibit 3). Additionally,
Plaintiffs state that the Deed of Trust and the Loan Agreement state that Plaintiff
can recover all expenses.
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that no
contract explicitly provides for the recovery of expert witness fees, and
therefore, such costs should not be recoverable. Defendants emphasize that an
award of costs does not inherently include expert witness fees without a
specific contractual provision or other legal basis. Defendants argue that the
contractual language in the agreements involved does not support the recovery
of expert witness fees. They contend that Plaintiffs’ interpretation of the
contracts is overly broad and unsupported by the contractual text or the parties’
intent. They highlight that the contracts do not explicitly state that expert
witness fees are included in the costs and that there was no evidence of any
intent by the parties to negotiate such terms. Defendants also argue that
expert witness fees, even if potentially recoverable, should have been pleaded
and proven at trial rather than claimed through a memorandum of costs. They
suggest that Plaintiffs’ failure to do so deprives the court of the necessary
evidence to assess the reasonableness and necessity of the fees. In support of
Defendants’ arguments, Defendant Kwok Ng files a declaration in reply, claiming
that he did not agree to pay witness fees in connection with this case. (Ng
Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
            As to the expert witness fees,
Defendants rely on new evidence in their reply to support their claim that they
had no intention of entering into an agreement that provided expert witness
fees to be recoverable by the prevailing party. However, upon review of the
agreements, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ interpretation is reasonable.
Thus, Plaintiffs are entitled to expert witness fees, reporters’ fees, and
photocopy chargers. Further, Plaintiffs provide that the Court ordered
transcripts in this case such that the costs for reporters’ were recoverable. 
 
“If items on a memorandum of costs
appear to be proper charges on their face, those items are prima facie evidence
that the costs, expenses, and services are proper and necessarily incurred.
[Citations.]” (Doe v. Los Angeles County
Dept. of Children & Family Services, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 693.) 
 
“Initial verification will suffice to establish the reasonable necessity
of the costs claimed. There is no requirement that copies of bills, invoices,
statements, or any other such documents be attached to the memorandum.” (Jones
v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1267.) Further, the Court in Jones
stated that “ ‘mere statements in the points and authorities accompanying its
notice of motion to strike cost bill and the declaration of its counsel are
insufficient to rebut the prima facie showing [that the costs were necessarily
incurred].’ ” (Id. at p. 1266.)
 
Defendants fail to provide any
evidence to demonstrate that the charges in the memorandum of costs were not
reasonably incurred as to these costs. Plaintiffs have met their initial burden
by submitting a memorandum of costs that appear to have been proper charges. Defendants,
however, relies solely on the argument contained in their memorandum and have
failed to submit any evidence to support their claim that the costs are
unnecessary or unreasonable. Thus, Defendants motion to tax costs as to expert
witness fees, reporters’ fees, and photocopy charges is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
motion to tax costs is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
            
Dated:   May 6, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
