  Case Number:  22VECV01434    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  W khachik
garabidian jr. v. progressive west insurance co.
 
demurrer to second amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        September
19, 2023                         Trial Date:  None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.: 22VECV01434
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Progressive West Insurance
Co.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Khachik Garabidian Jr.
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Brooks Decl. ¶2.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Khachik Garabidian Jr. was
the holder of an auto insurance policy, i.e., Policy No. 923764921 (Policy)
with Defendant Progressive West Insurance Company. On May 23, 2022, plaintiff
purchased a 011 Mercedes-Benz G55 (Vehicle) and on June 14, 2022, while the Vehicle
was parked at the dealership, a pedestrian passing by lit the Vehicle on fire
and inflicted damage to it. Plaintiff filed a claim with defendant on June 16,
2022 to cover the damage to the Vehicle. On August 10, 2022, defendant denied plaintiff’s
claim on the grounds that plaintiff owns “three additional vehicles, a 2007
Mercedes Benz… a 2013 BMW… and a 2012 Toyota which were not insured by
[Defendant], but by State Farm Insurance.” Plaintiff alleges he had 30 days
from the date of becoming owner of the Vehicle to add it to the Policy and the Vehicle
was subject to coverage because it was still within the 30-day limit to
formally add the Vehicle to the Policy.
 
On September 28, 2022, plaintiff filed
this action against defendant, alleging causes of action for bad-faith and breach
of contract. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on
March 21, 2023.
 
On April 17, 2023, defendant filed the
instant demurrer to the FAC on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of
action. Specifically, the FAC focuses on the 30-day time limit for adding the Vehicle
to the Policy when the issue is that Policy does not include coverage for
additional vehicles if the policy holder owns other vehicles covered by
policies with different insurers, which was the stated basis for the denial of
coverage. Plaintiff has opposed the demurrer, contending defendant is
attempting to introduce facts outside the FAC and that plaintiff has otherwise
adequately pled claims for breach of contract and bad faith. Defendant has
replied, arguing that the FAC states the bases for the denial of coverage but
fails to allege facts showing that the basis for the denial was factually false
or legally insufficient under the terms of the Policy.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Progressive West Insurance
Co.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant
Progressive West Insurance Co. demurs to the Second Amended Complaint on the
grounds Plaintiff failed to allege facts sufficient to support the bad faith or
breach of contract claim. Specifically, Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is
a sham pleading. 
 
“Under
the sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints
to omit harmful allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to
avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment. 
[Citations.]”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc.¿(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th
408, 425.)  Thus, “[i]f a party files an amended complaint and attempts to
avoid the defects of the original complaint by either omitting facts which made
the previous complaint defective or by adding facts inconsistent with those of
previous pleadings, the court may take judicial notice of¿prior pleadings and
may disregard any inconsistent allegations.”  (Colapinto v. County of
Riverside¿(1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 147, 151.)  “ ‘The policy against sham
pleadings requires the pleader to¿explain¿satisfactorily any such
omission.’ ”  (Deveny, supra, 139 Cal.App.4th at pp. 425-26,
quoting Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The
Rutter Grp. 2005) ¶ 6.708.) 
 
Defendant
Progressive argues Plaintiff has backtracked from the allegations of his
Complaint and First Amended Complaint to assert facts in direct contradiction
with those previously alleged. In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleged that
following his purchase of the Vehicle, "[a]ccording to the Policy and
applicable law, Plaintiff had 30 days from the date he purchased the vehicle to
add it to the Policy.” (Compl. ¶15.) The FAC alleged under the Policy, his
purchase of the Vehicle triggered automatic coverage and he had thirty (30)
days "from the date he becomes owner of the additional auto to add
it to the Policy.” (FAC ¶15.) Now, Plaintiff alleges that the Vehicle was not
purchased to be added to the Policy as an “additional auto,” but was actually purchased
to replace another vehicle on the Policy. (SAC ¶22.) Defendant contends
the terms have different meanings in the Policy and therefore, Plaintiff has
alleged factually inconsistent theories of harm.    
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the facts presented in the SAC unequivocally
demonstrates that such a contradiction does not exist. Particularly,
Defendant’s narrow semantic distinction between the terms “additional” and
“replacement” whereby Defendant attempts to preclude the terms “additional”
from meaning “replacement”. Plaintiff also argues since the complaint was not
verified, the sham pleading principle cannot be applied in this instance. 
 
Defendant’s
interpretation of the Complaint and the SAC is a narrow reading. Plaintiff’s
allegations. “Plaintiff had 30 days from the date he purchased the vehicle
to add it to the Policy” and “Plaintiff has 30 days from the date he
becomes the owner of the replacement auto to add it to the Policy” are
not so inconsistent. The court does agree the changing of “additional auto” to
“replacement auto” does have a different meaning. As noted by Defendant,
‘additional auto’ requires that all other autos are insured by Defendant
whereas that requirement is missing from ‘replacement auto.’ However, at this
stage, it is not clear that the SAC is a sham pleading. From the four corners
of the pleading, it is not clear that Plaintiff initially intended to add the
vehicle at issue as an additional vehicle or replacement vehicle. There was
never any mention of this in the complaint nor does Defendant provide evidence
of how Plaintiff referred to the vehicle when seeking to add the vehicle to the
Policy. 
 
The
court also notes the sham pleading doctrine applies to both verified and
unverified complaints.  (Pierce v.
Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1109.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the SAC is OVERRULED. 
 
 