 Case Number:  23LBCV00882    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Navy
Federal Credit Union filed this action against Defendant, Maria Stoch on
5/12/23 for common counts, alleging Defendant owes Plaintiff $76,135.90.  
 
On 7/05/23,
Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. 
The document purportedly included “counterclaims” against Plaintiff for
negligence and fraud.  
 
On 10/12/23, the parties
appeared at a CMC.  At that time, it
became clear that Defendant was purporting to bring counterclaims by way of her
answer.  The Court advised Defendant to make
a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint in a timely manner.    
2.    
Motion
for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint
Defendant moves for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff, pursuant to which she seeks to assert claims
for indemnification, apportionment of fault, negligence, and fraud.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion,
arguing (a) it is not timely made, and (b) the proposed cross-complaint is fatally
defective as a matter of law.  
 
CCP §426.30 defines a
cross-complaint as “compulsory” if it is pled against the plaintiff and
includes claims related to the subject matter of the complaint.  Defendant’s proposed cross-complaint clearly
meets this test.  CCP §426.50 makes clear
that the Court MUST grant a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint
unless it finds the moving party is acting in bad faith.  
 
Even if Plaintiff’s position in
opposition to the motion is correct (the motion is not timely brought and/or
the proposed cross-complaint is fatally defective), Plaintiff failed to show
Defendant is bringing the proposed cross-complaint in bad faith.  Notably, Defendant clearly attempted to
assert these claims at the outset of litigation, and made a procedural error in
doing so. 
 
The motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
is granted.  Defendant must file a
separate copy of her cross-complaint within five days.  Plaintiff must file a responsive pleading
within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   