  Case Number:  21STCV17411    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Veronica Maes filed this
action against Defendant, Harbor Industrial Services Corporation on 5/10/21.  Plaintiff’s judicial council form complaint includes
causes of action for general negligence and premises liability, and alleges Plaintiff
was injured when Defendant’s crane operator struck her with a crane due to a
computer malfunction.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to
requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports
an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other
words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support
an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be
reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has discharged
its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with
any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular
cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing
evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to that cause of action.  (Id. at
§437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary
judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and
those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary
judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974)
11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
b.    
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff submitted objections with
her opposition papers.  The objections
are overruled and will be discussed more fully below.
 
c.    
Initial Note re: Summary Adjudication
Defendant, in its notice of motion,
indicates it seeks summary adjudication of each cause of action in Plaintiff’s
complaint.  Defendant’s separate statement
is not technically compliant with CRC 3.1350(b) which requires each issue to be
adjudicated to be set forth “verbatim” in the notice of motion and separate statement.  The Court will rule on the issues despite the
defect, but asks Counsel to ensure compliance with all Rules of Court in the
future in connection with this and other actions.  
 
d.    
Initial Notes re: Separate Statement
Defendant consistently refers to deposition testimony as a “material
fact.”  See facts 10-12, 55-61, 63-67, 69-71,
93-95, 139-145, 147-151, and 153-155.  Pursuant
to Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95,
105-106, what someone said in deposition is not a material fact.  It may be evidence of a material fact, but
the statement itself is not the fact.  
 
Additionally, it appears Defendant used the same 81 facts to support
each of its requests for summary adjudication. 
CRC 3.1350(d)(2) requires the separate statement to ONLY include facts
material to disposition of the issue to be adjudicated.  By way of example, Defendant’s facts 4 and 5,
found in connection with the separate statement concerning the negligence cause
of action, states that Plaintiff, at page 5 of her complaint, sues for products
liability and does so under a manufacturing, design, and/or sale theory.  These facts cannot, in any way, relate to the
NEGLIGENCE cause of action, which is the cause of action that is the subject of
the first half of the separate statement. 

 
Pursuant to Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc., 2023 WL 8430581:
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(1), requires each
motion for summary judgment to be accompanied by a separate statement “setting
forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends
are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a
reference to the supporting evidence.” 
(Italics added.)  California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2)[1] states: 
“The separate statement should include only material facts and not any
facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.”  Under the Rules of Court, “‘Material facts’
are facts that relate to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty,
or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion and that could make a
difference in the disposition of the motion.” 
(Rule 3.1350(a)(2).)
What neither the rule nor the statute states
is that the moving party must include in the separate statement every fact they
intend to include in their motion, regardless of its materiality.  For example, HRH’s very first “material fact”
in its separate statement is:  “The Hard
Rock brand is known worldwide for its connection to music, fashion, and
entertainment.”  Under no interpretation
of “material” does this qualify – it is merely background information that has
no relevance to any cause of action or defense.
This is far from the only paragraph in the three separate statements
that make absolutely no difference in the disposition of the motion.  The paragraphs in a separate statement should
be limited to facts that address the elements of a cause of action or an
affirmative defense.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); rule 3.1350(a)(2), (d)(2).)  The statute and Rules of Court do not
preclude litigants from including background, nonmaterial information in their
papers as long as they include a cite to the evidence, but nonmaterial facts
should not be included in the separate statement.  The point of the separate statement is not to
craft a narrative, but to be a concise list of the material facts and the
evidence that supports them.  “The
separate statement serves two important functions in a summary judgment
proceeding:  It notifies the parties
which material facts are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious
vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed
facts.”  (Collins v. Hertz Corp. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 64, 74.)  There is
nothing convenient or expeditious about the separate statements submitted in
this case.
 
Similar to the defects in Beltran, Defendant in this motion includes
myriad facts in its separate statement that are not ultimately material to
resolution of the motion.  The only facts
material to resolution of the negligence cause of action are facts relating to whether
there was a computer malfunction of the subject crane.  Facts concerning, for example, Plaintiff’s employment,
what a chassis is, what a bomb cart is, etc., are all background facts, but are
not material to resolution of the merits of the motion.  
 
The motion is summarily denied. 
Pursuant to Beltran, supra, “Trial courts should not hesitate to deny
summary judgment motions when the moving party fails to draft a compliant
separate statement – and an inappropriate separate statement includes an overly
long document that includes multiple nonmaterial facts in violation of the
Rules of Court.”
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 