 Case Number:  22LBCV00518    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Pat
Amaka Levison filed this action against Defendants, Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook-Meta
on 9/28/22.  On 9/19/23, the Court sustained
a demurrer to the original complaint with leave to amend, finding the complaint
failed to state a cause of action and was uncertain.  The Court advised Plaintiff that she should
consult with an attorney if she wished to pursue her claims.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint

Legal Standard on Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares multiple attempts to meet and confer were
made, but Plaintiff did not respond.  The
Court previously advised Plaintiff she must meaningfully participate in meet
and confer communications, but she continues to fail to do so.  
 

Initial Notes

The Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the original complaint on
9/19/23.  Plaintiff filed a document
captioned amended complaint on 10/19/23. 
She then filed two documents, both captioned opposition to demurrer to
answer, on 10/19/23 and 10/30/23.  There was
no demurrer to the answer pending at the time Plaintiff filed these documents,
and it appears the documents are intended to supplement the amended complaint
in some way.  
 

Analysis

Plaintiff’s
purported amended complaint is not filed in conformity with the law, is not a
proper complaint, does not state a cause of action, and is uncertain.  The amended complaint does not comply with the
California Rules of Court.  CRC 2.112
requires the complaint to separately identify each cause of action being
pled.  Plaintiff’s amended complaint does
not even purport to state any cause of action. 
Instead, it includes only one caption, which is “memorandum.”  A memorandum is not a cause of action.  
 
The demurrer is
sustained.  Because Plaintiff was
previously given leave to amend, and because a review of the purported amended
complaint reveals an inability to articulate a cause of action against Defendant,
leave to amend is denied.  
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   