 Case Number:  22LBCV00293    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Duk Ha Kim filed this
action against Defendants, David and Jessica Quackenbush to recover for injuries
sustained when Plaintiff fell off a ladder at Defendants’ property.    
 
2.     Motion
to Appoint Guardian Ad Litem
Defendants, on 10/25/23, filed a
motion to require the Court to appoint a guardian ad litem for Plaintiff, who
is an incompetent person, setting the hearing for 1/18/24.  On 1/04/24, Plaintiff filed opposition to the
motion, indicating an application had been filed and the motion would be
rendered moot prior to the hearing.  On 1/08/24,
the Court granted the application and appointed Mi Ok Heo, Plaintiff’s motion,
to act as his GAL in these proceedings.  On
1/10/24, apparently not having received notice of the order, Defendants filed
reply papers asking the Court to grant the motion.  
The motion is taken off calendar as
moot in light of the 1/08/24 order appointing a GAL to act on Plaintiff’s
behalf.  
 
3.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RFAs
a.    
History of Motion and Parties’ Positions
Defendants propounded RFAs on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff responded by asserting various objections
and then indicating he could neither admit nor deny the RFAs because litigation
is in its nascent stages.  Defendants attempted
to meet and confer, and Plaintiff did not supplement the responses.  
 
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear the motion on 11/21/23.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling continuing the hearing on the motion
to 1/18/24, to be heard concurrently with Defendants’ motion to appoint a
GAL.  At the conclusion of the hearing,
at Plaintiff’s request, the Court continued the hearing date to 1/18/24.  
 
On 1/04/24, Plaintiff filed
opposition to the motion.  Plaintiff
contends his GAL will verify the responses forthwith, and the motion will be
moot.  He contends the responses are
substantively proper, as they comply with CCP §2033.220(b)(3), which permits a
party to specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth
of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.
 
On 1/10/24, Defendants filed reply
papers.  Defendants contend that, even if
Plaintiff’s GAL ultimately verifies the responses, the responses remain
deficient because (a) they contain improper and boilerplate objections, and (b)
they fail to comply with §2033.220(c).  
 
b.     Objections
Plaintiff’s responses contain
boilerplate objections prior to setting forth substantive responses.  Pursuant to Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255, the burden to justify an objection is on the party
asserting the objection.  Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion does not attempt to justify the objections.  The objections are therefore overruled and Plaintiff
must serve further responses without objections.  
 
c.     Analysis
re: Sufficiency of Substantive Responses
Plaintiff argues his responses are
code-compliant because CCP §2033.220(b) requires responses to RFAs to specify
so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the
responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.  He contends that, because of his TBI, he
lacks sufficient information or knowledge to respond to any of the outstanding
RFAs.  
 
Defendants, in reply, correctly
note that §2033.220(c) provides, “If a responding party gives lack of
information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a
request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable
inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that
the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that
party to admit the matter.”
 
Plaintiff’s responses do not comply
with §2033.220(c).  Further responses are
therefore required.
 
d.     Sanctions

The Court finds sanctions are
appropriate.  CCP §2033.290(d) requires
the Court to impose sanctions unless the opposing party acted with substantial justification
or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust.  The Court finds neither situation exists
here.  Defendants propounded the subject
RFAs in April of 2023.  Defendants met
and conferred at length.  Plaintiff has
delayed serving code-compliant responses, both by failing to have a GAL
appointed and also by failing to serve proper responses.  
 
Defendants seek sanctions in the amount
of $2769, which includes 3.6 hours to meet and confer, 4.3 hours to prepare the
moving papers, 3 hours to review the opposition and prepare a reply, and 2
hours to prepare for and appear at the hearing, all at the rate of $210/hour,
as well as a $60 filing fee.  The Court
finds the amounts reasonable, especially because the hearing on the motion was continued,
necessitating two sets of reply papers and two appearances.  
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Plaintiff and his attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Defendants, by and through their attorney of record, in the total amount of
$2769, within twenty days.  
 
e.     Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to compel
further responses to RFAs is granted. 
Plaintiff must serve code-compliant responses, without objections, within
ten days.  Defendants’ request for
sanctions is granted as set forth fully above.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 