 Case Number:  22STCV11375    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, ZRP Group, LLC filed
this action against Defendants, City of Long Beach and Sami Kherimi for damages
arising out of a flood that occurred when the City energized the fire
suppression system at Plaintiff’s business location.  Plaintiff alleges Kherimi is the City
employee who energized the system.  The City
filed a cross-complaint against Long Beach Acquisitions, LLC and Shirley
Vancamp for indemnification and related claims. 
Long Beach Acquisitions filed a cross-complaint against the City.      
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Deposition
a.    
Summary Judgment Motion
The City filed a summary judgment
motion on 9/20/23, setting it for hearing on 2/22/24.  The City supports its motion, in part, with the
Declaration of Todd LeBerge.  LeBerge is
an expert fire marshal and managing fire protection engineer.  LeBerge opines, in his declaration, that the
City (through its employee Kherimi) did nothing wrong in connection with the flood,
and that Plaintiff failed to adequately maintain the fire sprinkler system in
operational condition, which caused the flood. 

 
b.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff moves to compel LeBerge
to sit for deposition and produce documents. 
It contends a deposition is necessary for the purpose of impeaching
LeBerge’s declaration.  It contends
LeBerge improperly attempts to interpret codes, ordinances, and safety
regulations, which is the province of the trial court.  It contends each of LeBerge’s four major
opinions asserted in the declaration lack proper foundation.  
 
The City opposes the motion.  It argues there are no circumstances present
that permit an early expert deposition.  It
argues all of the major opinions are proper and, in any event, a deposition is
not the proper way to challenge the opinions at this stage of the
proceedings.  It argues that, in the
event the deposition is compelled, it should be limited in scope.
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues LeBerge’s
testimony regarding operating a valve is not correct based on all available evidence,
and also argues his testimony re: Plaintiff’s negligence is not correct based
on all available evidence.  
 
c.     Law
Governing Early Expert Depositions in Opposition to Summary Judgment
The parties agree that St. Mary
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1531 sets
forth the test for determining whether an early expert deposition can be conducted.  Where a party has submitted the opinion of
the expert in opposition to a motion for summary judgment brought prior to
designation, and there is a legitimate question regarding the foundation of the
opinion, reasonable discovery may be allowed. Id. at 1540.
 
However, "[t]here must be
objective facts presented which create a significant question regarding the
validity of the affidavit or declaration which, if successfully pursued, will
impeach the foundational basis of the affidavit or declaration in question."
Id. at 1540-1541.  In St. Mary, those
objective facts existed; there was evidence that one of the defendant doctors
had not participated in the procedure at issue, and the defendants' expert
submitted evidence that plaintiff's expert was relying on a hypothetical
unsupported by the facts of the case. 
Under these circumstances, the Court of Appeal concluded defendants
should have been permitted to depose plaintiff's expert, as it was possible
that plaintiff's expert would retreat from the statements in his declaration,
thereby allowing the case to be resolved on summary judgment.  Id. at pp. 1538-1539. The appellate court was
clear that this discovery would be allowed only under limited circumstances.
 
d.     Analysis
Plaintiff failed to show the need
for an expert deposition prior to the hearing on the summary judgment motion.  Plaintiff showed, at most, a variety of
factual disputes that would defeat summary judgment.  None of these disputes, however, goes to the foundation
of the expert opinion set forth in the moving declaration.  
 
Plaintiff does not point to any
failure on the part of Defendant’s expert to review necessary evidence or to
have necessary experience, both of which go to foundation.  Plaintiff, instead, argues the expert has not
properly reviewed the evidence, has reached improper conclusions from the evidence,
and/or is misconstruing the evidence.  All
of this is the proper subject of evidentiary objections and/or submission of contrary
factual evidence to defeat the summary judgment motion, but no deposition is necessary
in order to submit the objections and evidence. 

 
The motion is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   