 Case Number:  21STCV35939    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Martin Delgado filed
this action against Defendant, Super Center Concepts, Inc. on 9/29/21 for
damages arising out of a fall Plaintiff sustained while shopping at Defendant’s
store.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
he was using a mobility scooter and, upon standing to exit the scooter, the
scooter seat base broke and/or detached from its base, causing Plaintiff to
sustain injuries.
 
On 11/22/21, Defendant answered the
complaint and filed a cross-complaint against Amigo Mobility International,
Inc. for indemnification and related claims. 
Amigo is the entity that manufactured the scooter on which Plaintiff fell.  
 
On 1/04/24, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to add a products liability claim against Amigo by
way of an amended complaint.  
 
1.     Motion
to Quash
Amigo propounded a deposition subpoena
for production of business records on Plaintiff’s primary care physician.  Plaintiff moves to quash the subpoena.  
 
a.    
Parties’
Positions
The subpoena at issue is directed
at Dr. Cynthia Miller.  Dr. Miller is
Plaintiff’s primary care medical provider, and has been since at least 2011.  The subpoena seeks production of Plaintiff’s
complete medical records from 2011 forward, with no other limitations.  Plaintiff argues the subpoena should be limited
to records relating to the body parts at issue in this litigation, which
include his left knee, left shoulder, back, neck, and left hip.    
 
Defendant, in opposition to the motion,
contends Plaintiff suffers from numerous chronic conditions, including
arthritis, diabetes, hypertension, obesity, heart disease, asthma, severe sleep
apnea, neuropathy, depression, and anxiety. 
Defendant contends it is likely those conditions have contributed to any
complaints Plaintiff raises about his knee, shoulder, back, neck, and/or hip,
such that his comprehensive medical records should be produced.    
 
i.             
Law
Governing Discovery of Medical Records
For discovery purposes, information
is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence.  (Davies v. Superior
Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)  These
rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery (Colonial Life & Accident
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790), and again (contrary to
popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.  (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 355, 385.)
 
By filing a personal injury action,
plaintiffs place in issue their past and present physical and/or mental
conditions related to the injury sued upon. 
All medical and/or psychological records relating to the claimed
injuries are thus discoverable. 
(Evidence Code §§ 996, 1016; Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 862–864.)  Normally, information
about medical conditions entirely different from the injury sued upon is beyond
the scope of discovery.  However, medical
records pertaining to an unrelated condition are discoverable on a showing of
“good cause” if the condition is relevant to the issue of proximate
causation.  (Evidence Code §999; Slagle
v. Superior Court (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1314–1315 [good cause shown by
info that plaintiff was blind 6 months before accident].)
 
ii.            
Analysis
The Court finds Defendant’s
position is well-taken.  Plaintiff seems
to be misunderstanding Defendant’s position. 
Defendant’s position is not that Plaintiff’s myriad chronic conditions
were caused by the accident, as argued at page 2, lines 16-19 of the reply, but
instead that Plaintiff’s myriad chronic conditions likely contributed to the
very same damages he is contending resulted from the accident.  By way of example, if Plaintiff has chronic
arthritis, his arthritis could play a role in the numerous skeletal-muscular
issues he claims were caused by the accident itself.  Especially where, as here, Plaintiff is
claiming almost a million dollars in past and future medical expenses, Defendant
is entitled to discover and argue some of those expenses would have been incurred
regardless of the injuries sustained in the lawsuit.  
 
The Court does, however, find the
duration of the subpoena is excessive.  Defendant
seeks records from 2011 forward.  The accident
occurred in 2021.  In general, the Court
believes medical records more than five years old are not relevant to
Plaintiff’s current and/or probable future medical condition.  If Plaintiff complained of something more
than five years prior to the accident, and it was not raised again during the
subsequent five years, it appears to have fully resolved such that it would no
longer be relevant.  The Court therefore asks
the parties to meet and confer to draft a new deposition subpoena that is
limited in duration to no more than five years.    
 

iii.           
Sanctions  
Both parties seek sanctions in
connection with the motion and opposition. 
CCP §1987.2(a) permits the Court, in its discretion, to award sanctions
in connection with a motion to quash if the Court finds the motion was made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.  
 
The Court finds both parties took
their positions in good faith and sanctions are not justified.  Issues relating to patient privacy are
complicated.  Plaintiffs are entitled to
defend their rights to privacy, and defendants are entitled to defend the allegations
made against them.  No sanctions are
imposed.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.