 Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff
Courtney Brooks (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against defendants Long Beach
Memorial Medical Center (“Medical Center”), Mundi Attinasi, M.D. (“Dr.
Attinasi”), Amjuli Kumar, M.D. (“Dr. Kumar”), Glenn Levine, M.D. (“Dr. Levine”),
and Does 1 through 20, alleging a cause of action for wrongful death from
professional negligence.  On November 23,
2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).   
 
Plaintiff alleges that her daughter,
Marlee Sage Butler (“Marlee”) was born on April 8, 2020, with holoprosencephaly.  Marlee was admitted to the Medical Center on
July 8, 2020.  On July 15, Marlee stopped
breathing and became unresponsive and required intubation.  On July 18, 2020, after two tests for brain
death were performed, Marlee was pronounced dead.  
 
The SAC includes causes of action
for wrongful death (professional negligence) (all defendants), fraud (Levine),
fraudulent concealment (Dabagh), Aiding and Abetting Fraud (Javahery), and
vicarious liability (LBMMC).
 
On 11/09/23, the Court granted
LBMMC’s motion for summary judgment, leaving only the physician defendants
active in the case.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Procedural Note
Drs. Levine, Attinasi, and Javahery
all filed summary judgment motions on 11/03/23, setting the motions for hearing
on 1/18/24.  
 
Opposition to the motions was due
on or before 1/04/24.  CCP §437c(b)(2).  Plaintiff filed opposition papers directed at
Dr. Levine’s motion on 1/04/24.  She filed
opposition papers directed at Dr. Javahery’s motion on 1/08/24; she filed her
separate statement re: Dr. Javahery’s motion on 1/09/24.  She has not, to date, filed opposition papers
directed at Dr. Attinas’s motion.    
 
Plaintiff’s points and authorities
in opposition to Dr. Levine’s motion commence on page four of her opposition
and conclude on page 30.  Her points and
authorities in opposition to Dr. Javahery’s motion commence on page four of her
opposition and conclude on page 37.  
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(d),
makes clear that papers in opposition to a summary judgment motion must not
exceed 20 pages.  Rule 3.1113(g) provides,
“A memorandum that exceeds the page limits must be filed and considered in the
same manner as a late-filed paper.”  Rule
3.1300(d) provides, “No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it
was untimely submitted for filing.  If the
court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes
or order must so indicate.”
 
The Court refuses to consider the opposition
to Dr. Levine’s motion because it exceeds the page limit.  The Court refuses to consider the opposition to
Dr. Javahery’s motion both because it was untimely filed and also because it
exceeds the page limit.  If Plaintiff
files opposition to Dr. Attinasi’s motion, the Court will not consider it, as
it will not have been timely filed.  
 
b.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to
requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports
an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other
words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support
an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be
reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the
propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the
motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
c.    
Evidentiary Objections
The Court notes that Plaintiff
submitted objections to the Newth Declaration on 1/04/24.  It is not clear if these objections are
intended to apply to each of the three motions on calendar today.  The Court has reviewed the objections and
finds they are not well-taken; they are overruled.
 
d.    
Law re: Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony. 
Id.  If the “common knowledge”
exception does not apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is
conclusive and cannot be disregarded. 
Id.  A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical practitioner
is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are unsuccessful, or he
makes an error that was reasonable under the circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
e.    
Law
re: Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. 
[Citations.]  That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical
'possibility' needs little discussion. 
There can be many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of
circumstances which can produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only
becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable causal explanations,
it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a result of its
action.  This is the outer limit of
inference upon which an issue may be submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp.
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
f.      Initial
Note re: Summary Adjudication 
Defendants indicate, in their
notices of motion, that they seek summary judgment or summary adjudication for multiple
reasons.  They then list the reasons.  They never, however, list what issues are to
be adjudicated.  Notably, CCP §437c(f)
permits a motion for summary adjudication of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  It does not permit summary adjudication of a “reason.”  Defendants’ notices of motion never indicate which
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, and/or issues of
duty they wish to have adjudicated.  The Court
therefore will consider only the motions for summary judgment, and not the
purported alternative motions for summary adjudication.  
 
g.     Dr.
Levine’s Moving Burden
Defendant provides the Expert
Declaration of Dr. Christopher J.L. Newth, M.D. in support of his motion.  Dr. Newth sets forth his expert
qualifications, details Defendant’s care and treatment of Decedent, and
ultimately concludes Dr. Levine did not breach the standard of care in
connection with his care and treatment, and nothing he did caused or contributed
to Decedent’s death.  Dr. Levine
therefore met his moving burden to show that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law on the negligence claims against him.  Additionally, Dr. Levine establishes that the
crux of Plaintiff’s fraud claim is that Dr. Levine failed to disclose his own negligence;
however, if there was no negligence, there can be no failure to disclose.  The fraud claim therefore rises and falls
with the negligence claim, and Dr. Levine met his burden to negate the
claim.    
 
h.    
Opposing
Burden
As noted above, the Court refuses
to consider Plaintiff’s opposition papers because they exceed the page
limit.  Additionally, the Court notes
that Plaintiff presented the Declaration of Jill Glenn, MSN-ED., R.N., in
support of her opposition to the motion. 
In Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 970, the
Court of Appeals considered a situation where the plaintiff opposing a summary
judgment motion submitted the expert declaration of a doctor in support of her
position that the defendant hospital, through its nursing staff, breached the
standard of care.  The Court of Appeals found
the doctor failed to show he possessed any certification, expertise, or relevant
knowledge of the standards of care attributable to nurses, hospitals, or
hospital employees, other than physicians and surgeons.  The Court therefore found the doctor’s declaration
failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to the hospital, and the
summary judgment motion was properly granted. 

 
In this case, we have the reverse situation.  We have a nurse purporting to opine as to the
standard of care that applies to a physician. 
The same logic, however, governs the Court’s inquiry.  Glenn failed to show she is familiar with the
standard of care that governs physicians, and therefore, even if the Court were
to consider the opposition, it would find the Declaration of Glenn insufficient
to raise a triable issue of material fact in opposition to the motion.  
 
i.     
Dr.
Javahery’s Moving Burden
Dr. Javahery supports his motion
with the expert declaration of Nouzhan Sehati, M.D.  Dr. Sehati sets forth his expert qualifications,
details Dr. Javahery’s care and treatment of Decedent, and ultimately concludes
Dr. Javahery complied with the standard of care and all times and nothing he
did caused or contributed to Decedent’s death. 
Dr. Javahery therefore met his moving burden to show he is not liable on
Plaintiff’s negligence claims pled against him. 
Additionally, for the reasons detailed above in connection with Dr. Levine’s
motion, Dr. Javahery showed that the fraud causes of action pled against him
also fail.  Dr. Javahery therefore met
his moving burden to show he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
 
j.      Plaintiff’s
Shifted Burden
As noted above, the Court refuses
to consider Plaintiff’s opposition because it was untimely filed and because it
exceeds the page limit.  Additionally, as
discussed above in connection with Dr. Levine’s motion, the Court finds the
Declaration of Jill Glenn lacks personal knowledge concerning the appliable standard
of care, and therefore Plaintiff did not raise a triable issue of material fact
in opposition to the motion.  
 
k.     Dr.
Attinasi’s Moving Burden
Plaintiff’s sole claim against Dr.
Attinasi is for negligence.  Dr. Attinasi
supports her motion with the Declaration of Christopher J.L. Newth, M.D.  Dr. Attinasi met her moving burden to show
she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law for the reasons detailed in
connection with Dr. Levine’s motion, above. 

 
l.      Plaintiff’s
Shifted Burden
Plaintiff has not filed opposition
to Dr. Attinasi’s motion, and has therefore necessarily failed to meet her
burden to raise a triable issue of material fact.  To the extent Plaintiff files untimely opposition
to the motion after this ruling has been drafted, the Court will not consider
the untimely opposition papers.
 
m.   Conclusion
Each of the three moving defendants
met the initial burden to show entitlement to judgment as a matter of law.  Plaintiff failed to file proper opposition to
any motion.  Additionally, the submission
of Jill Glenn’s declaration is insufficient, as a matter of law, to raise a
triable issue of material fact.  The motions
are therefore granted.
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.