


[1] As concerns G & E: sec. 1.1.2 states: “The Contract
Documents shall not be construed to create a contractual relationship of any
kind between…the Contractor and the Construction Manager….The Construction
Manager shall, however, be entitled to performance and enforcement of
obligations under the Contract intended to facilitate performance of their
duties.”  
          Further, sec. 10.1 states in relevant
part: “[t]he Construction Manager’s responsibilities for review and
coordination of safety programs shall not extend to direct control over or
charge of the acts or omissions of the contractors, Subcontractors...” 
          In turn, sec. 4.2.5 states: “The
Construction Manager…will not have control over, or charge of, construction
means, methods, techniques, sequences or procedures, or for the safety precautions
and programs in connection with the Work, since these are solely the
Contractor’s rights and responsibilities under the Contract Documents….”  (Emphases added) 


[2] Article 3 of the agreement pertains to the
Contractor. Article 4 pertains to the Architect and Construction Manager.
Hence, sec. 3.3.1 is the key provision here related to this safety issue. Sec.
4.2.5 essentially confirms that notwithstanding the duties of Construction
Manager, sec. 3.3.1 is still controlling. 


[3] The argument is also speculative that it would have
even been reasonably possible for WBCMT (or G & E) to have closed the
shopping center during the project. This would likely mean the owner would have
had to terminate tenant leases and face likely liability to tenants for early lease
termination as well as for their lost business. Prime offered no evidence to
support this argument.  


[4] This Court indicated already – consistent with Judge
Pfahler’s ruling -  that Moving Parties
will remain as defendants on the complaint even if the Court finds Prime is
contractually obligated to indemnify Moving Parties.


[5] Given when the work outside the dentist’s office was
to have occurred before the office opened, Prime’s argument that Moving Parties
should not have allowed demolition when the stores were open, may not apply
here in any event. It appears this is precisely what it did do -- at least in
this instance. 


[6]  That Hill described her role as “tenant
advocate” does not mean G & E was taking over any safety responsibilities.
The Court understands her deposition testimony to be concerning issues of
timing of the demolition to ensure it did not interfere with the tenants’
business. That she wanted the project done safely – as would all parties - is
insufficient to indicate the parties varied from the terms of the agreement,
i.e., that Prime had that responsibility. The contractual provisions Prime
relies upon largely concern ensuring the project is timely, do not address
safety and do not contradict the other provisions concerning safety placing
that responsibility on Prime. Finally, Hill herself elsewhere at her deposition
corroborated that it was Prime’s responsibility to make sure the proper
protocols were in place to secure certain areas. 
 

