  Case Number:  19STCV01820    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTIONS OF G & E AND WBCMT FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION  
Beteta v. LNR
Partners, et al., and related cross-complaints, Case No. 19STCV01820
Hearing Date: December
14, 2023, 8:30 a.m.  
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On September 1, 2023, the Court filed
its Revised Statement of Decision on the trial of cross-complaints for
contractual indemnity (after having bifurcated the cross-complaints for
contractual indemnity by order filed May 15, 2023.) The Court found that the
indemnity provided in the agreement between Owner (“WBCMT”) and General
Contractor (“Prime”) (for a construction project at the shopping center in Northridge)
was a “general” indemnity clause…which would be construed to provide indemnity
for a loss resulting in part from an indemnitee’s “passive negligence” as
opposed to “active” negligence, relying on Rossmoor Sanitation v. Pylon
(1975) 13 Cal.3d 622, 628. (An agent of Property Manager (“G & E”) (Kris
Weideman) is a named third-party beneficiary of that agreement.) 
          The Court, however, concluded it
could not then decide whether Prime had a contractual duty to G & E or WBCMT
prior to the conclusion of the jury trial brought by Plaintiff against the
miscellaneous defendants: The Court did not know if (a) the jury would find Prime
or Sub-Contractor (“USFP”) was negligent (to give rise to an obligation to
indemnify) or (b) if so, whether G & E or WBCMT were “actively negligent.” The
briefing and offers of proof did not address whether G & E or WBCMT could
be actively negligent. G & E and WBCMT therefore requested the opportunity
prior to trial to establish that there was no material issue of fact that they
could not have been actively negligent. 
          On September 28, 2023, G & E
filed its motion for summary adjudication. On September 29, 2023, WBCMT filed
its motion for summary adjudication. Both motions are based upon essentially
the same facts and contentions and will be treated here together, except to the
extent necessary to do otherwise. They both argue that they could not have been
actively negligent. G & E argues that the crux of the inquiry is whether it
participated in some manner in the conduct or omission which caused the injury
beyond the mere failure to perform a duty imposed upon it by law, citing Morgan
v. Stubblefield (1972) 6 Cal.3d 625, 627. By contrast, WBCMT argues that it
is whether it had (a) “actual knowledge of the condition that caused the injury”
that the Court should focus on in determining active negligence, citing Gonzalez
v. R.J. Novick Construction (1978) 20 Cal.3d 798, 810-811 and (b) a
contractual duty to address this condition, citing Safeway Stores v. Mass.
Bonding & Ins. Co. (1962) 202 Cal.App.2d 99. 
          In support of making a finding that
factually they could not have been actively negligent, they point to the
following: WBCMT hired Prime to supervise and direct the construction project –
based on the performance of which Plaintiff allegedly suffered injury when an
object on which an employee of USFP (Narbik Bandary) had been working may have fallen
on her as she was going into a dentist’s office at the shopping center. In turn,
Prime agreed (by way of sec. 3.3.1 of the General Conditions incorporated into
the agreement) that it would be solely responsible for and have control
over the procedures for coordinating the work. In connection therewith, it
agreed to be responsible for maintaining and supervising all safety precautions
affected by the project, pursuant to secs. 10.1 and 10.2.1 of the Conditions.
To this end, it agreed to have an on-site superintendent (John Anderson) to put
up caution tape to protect areas related to businesses staying open during
construction, pursuant to sec. 10.2.6 of the Conditions. (By contrast, G &
E and WBCMT were both based off-site (G & E in Downtown Los Angeles and WBCMT
in Florida.))  
 
          In turn, they both contend that Prime’s
position that it is has no obligation to indemnify for negligence that is not “non-derivative”
of any act or omission on its part (or more specifically, that it is not
responsible for the alleged negligence of WBCMT in not shutting down the
shopping center during business hours when construction was taking place) does
not mean that Prime does not have a duty to indemnify them: 
          First, in its Sept. 1, 2023 ruling, this
Court found already that the scope of indemnity in this Type II indemnity provision
goes beyond strictly Prime’s own conduct in broadly covering for loss “arising
out of or resulting from performance of the Work.”  
          Second, as the Court indicated in its
earlier ruling filed July 19, 2023 (which it revised as to other issues), it is
not clear Prime (as opposed to Plaintiff) can complain that WBCMT and or G
& E should have closed the shopping center during construction when Prime
entered into an agreement that contemplated the shopping center would remain
open. Prime implicitly agreed that the shopping center would remain open during
construction and hence undertook in the agreement to ensure the necessary
safety measures – consistent with Anderson’s testimony that businesses “hardly
ever” closing during construction on similar shopping centers. Though Judge Pfahler
denied WBCMT’s motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s complaint on
the basis that WBCMT may have had a duty to Plaintiff to close the
shopping center during construction given the construction work was “inherently
dangerous, citing Privette v. Sup. Ct. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689,
694, Judge Pfahler was not addressing issues of contractual interpretation
related to the scope of any indemnity – as is the Court here. 
          Third, even if WBCMT and G & E
had a parallel duty to maintain safety, any negligence in not complying with
that duty on the date in question would not be active negligence on their part:
There is no evidence that they knew of the condition that caused the injury,
they had no contractual duties in this regard and they were not participating
in ensuring Plaintiff’s safety in accessing the business (or otherwise
providing materials for the work that might be a basis for liability.) Prime
(by its superintendent Anderson) admits that he was the person who blocked off
areas where the demolition was occurring by putting up caution tape. Neither WBCMT
nor G & E (both of which were principally off-site) had any duty to
supervise Prime or its agents, nor directed how Prime or its Sub-Contractor
should perform the work.    
 
          On November 30, 2023, Prime filed an
Omnibus Opposition to both motions, together with Separate Statements claiming
certain of the facts each Movant was relying upon were in dispute (Facts 6, 10,
14, 16 through 20 and 24 in G & E’s Separate Statement and Facts 3, 5-14
and 17-20 in WBCMT’s Separate Statement), as well as its own further Separate Statement
setting forth additional undisputed material facts requiring the motion be
denied. Prime argues that the evidence relied upon in the motion – that they
were not physically present at the center when the work was performed and that
they were not aware of a dangerous condition (because the work was entrusted to
others) is in dispute. For example, they point to the provision in the
agreement that G & E have a person on site when work is being performed, as
well as the testimony of G & E’s manager, Susan Hill, who acknowledged her
responsibility as “tenant advocate” to make sure the work was performed as
safely as possible. To that end, she advised Prime what areas to block off or
close. The timing and planning of the project were done through G & E
working with Prime. Notwithstanding those duties, G & E did not notify the
dentist’s office (outside of which the accident occurred) about demolition work
around her office.  
          Prime makes the following arguments: 
1. Moving Parties created a
dangerous condition by contracting for demolition at the shopping center
without closing the parts of the center where work was to be performed (or at
least during business hours) – whether they were present at the site or knew of
the work performed the day of the accident. Where an owner creates a dangerous
condition, an owner may not be permitted to assert as a defense lack of
knowledge of the condition. (Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1134)
2. Prime could not close the
shopping center or restrict access; only Moving Parties could do so. WBCMT however
would have had financial reasons not to close the shopping center: it would
have lost income from tenants - which in turn would have lost income. In turn, construction
during off hours would have been more expensive. The choice not to take these
other ways to perform the demolition was intentional.  
3. The decision to allow
overhead demolition where guests would be walking was active negligence of
Moving Parties, citing Burlingame Motor Co. v. Peninsula Activities
(1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 656 MacDonald & Kruse v. San Jose Steel Co.
(1972) 29 Cal.App.3d 413 (in both of which cases the Court found there was
active negligence where the defendant had created a dangerous condition). WBCMT
had a non-delegable duty to maintain the property in a safe condition, citing Brown
v. George Pepperdine Found. (1943) 23 Cal.2d 256, 259-260). In turn, G
& E had the same duty to maintain the property in a safe condition, citing Sturgeon
v. Curnutt (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 301, 306. Moreover, G & E was
contractually obligated to participate in numerous ways as “Construction
Manager” pursuant to secs. 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4.2.8 of the
agreement. Contrary to G & E’s claim it was merely offsite, sec. 4.2.3
states: “The Construction Manager shall provide a staffing plan to include one
or more representative who shall be in attendance at the Project site whenever
the Work is being performed.” Consistent therewith, according to Hill, G &
E’s representative, Thomas Bartnett, was responsible for advising Prime which
areas to block off.  
4. A jury must be permitted to
determine who was negligent and if so, whether active or passive. 
 
          On December 8, 2023, G & E filed
its Reply Brief, together with Evidentiary Objections to Prime’s Evidence, as
well as a responsive Separate Statement to Prime’s Separate Statement of Additional
Undisputed Facts. On the same date, WBCMT filed its own Reply Brief, as well as
responsive Separate Statement. Their arguments overlap and will be again
treated as one here except where otherwise relevant: There was no contractual
obligation of either moving party as concerns safety and without such
obligation there cannot be active negligence on their part.[1] Prime’s
argument based on not closing the shopping center is irrelevant to the limited
issue of interpreting the indemnity obligation as opposed to the different issue
of what safety obligations Moving Parties have to Plaintiff. What facts Prime
offers concerning G & E’s role does not show that it participated in the
events that led to the incident involving Plaintiff. Its involvement was not
safety related. It had no duty to supervise the cordoning off areas where
demolition was occurring. Prime offers no facts at all as to WBCMT’s role as it
had none. Hence, any failure on their part to foresee or prevent what occurred was
at most “passive.” 
        
DISCUSSION 
 
          The extent of a contractual duty to
indemnify must be determined from the contract. (Rossmoor, supra, 13
Cal.3d at 628-633) This is a question of contractual interpretation. Id.
The intent of the parties expressed in the agreement controls, as opposed to
the equities of the situation. (Smoketree-Lake Murray v. Mills Concrete
Construction (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1724, 1737) The foregoing is a question
of law absent any conflict in relevant extrinsic evidence. (City of Hope
Nat’l. Med. Ctr. v. Genentech (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 395, Morgan,
supra, 6 Cal.3d at 625, 627) As set forth below, secs. 3.3.1 and 4.2.5 make
clear that it was the express intention of the parties that the type of incident
here would be Prime’s responsibility.[2] Hence,
absent some knowledge or participation therein by Moving Parties they could not
be actively negligent.    
          Whether conduct constitutes active or
passive negligence depends upon the circumstances of a given case and is
ordinarily a question for the trier of fact. The question becomes one of law,
however, when the evidence is so clear and undisputable
that reasonable people could not disagree. (Gonzalez v. R.J. Novick
Constr. Co. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 798, 810) 
          The Court finds “the evidence is so
clear and undisputable that reasonable persons could not disagree” that Prime
had the exclusive contractual responsibility for safety of the shopping center
as concerns the demolition work and that there is no evidence otherwise.
Necessarily, therefore, any tangential responsibility of WBCMT or G & E as
concerns safety did not amount to “active” negligence on either of their part. Neither
had any contractual responsibility to assure safety. What rules may be drawn
from the cited cases (and they are admittedly not exactly on point) reveal that
there is active negligence where there is some contractual responsibility, or the
party takes some action in breach of a known duty. There are no such
responsibilities here. What other responsibilities, if any, WBCMT and G & E
had under the agreement were not safety related and would at most constitute
passive negligence.  
          Moreover, the Court finds that the
entire premise of Prime’s argument that Moving Parties had the sole ability to -
and should have - closed the shopping center during the demolition (and or
scheduled the demolition only during non-business hours) - and their decision
not to do so constituting active negligence - to be in direct conflict with the
terms of the agreement.[3] Again,
the issue here is solely interpreting the agreement; not determining which
entities may have liability to an allegedly injured party. Conflating that
issue with the more limited one here is not helpful.[4] Hence,
Portillo, supra, that Prime relies upon, concerns an owner being unable
to disavow the creation of a dangerous condition in the context of liability to
an injured party. The issue here is instead whether if Moving Parties are found
negligent Prime is contractually responsible for any such findings. The jury is
still left with the underlying decision; however, it is for the Court on
undisputed facts to interpret the agreement so that parties know what their
contractual obligations are if the jury returns a verdict finding negligence by
Moving Parties. 
         Closing
the shopping center is inconsistent with the terms of the agreement because Prime
expressly agreed to assure the safety of the shopping center on the express
basis that the shopping center would remain open. If Prime believed that Moving
Parties should not have kept the shopping center open, they should not have
entered into the agreement. Similarly, if Prime believed it could not perform
the proposed terms of the agreement – the safety of those impacted by the
demolition – it should not have taken on the project. Where it took on the job,
it cannot now say it should not have had that responsibility. Stated
differently, Prime cannot now permissibly claim otherwise -- inconsistent with
its agreement. 
          Reading the agreement in the manner
Prime suggests would effectively defeat the terms of the agreement by no longer
making Prime the party with sole responsibility for safety (thereby allowing
Prime to avoid its contractual obligation to indemnify.) Indeed, Prime offers
no evidence or law to show that it does not have exactly such duty.
Significantly, Prime effectively acknowledges such responsibility in
recognizing that it was in a “hard place.” In other words, if it wanted the
job, there would be these consequences. Hence, that WBCMT had financial
considerations in keeping the center open during the project (or otherwise lose
rent from tenants or pay more for the work to be done in off-hours) is
immaterial (and speculative.) Indeed, significantly, Prime representative Anderson
admitted at his deposition that shopping centers “hardly ever” closed during
demolition projects; thereby discounting the notion that Prime would have
reasonably expected Moving Parties to have closed the shopping center. Moreover,
the same can be said that Prime had financial considerations in choosing to
take on the project, taking account of the costs related to avoiding or
obtaining coverage for potential liabilities arising from safety concerns.) 
          The foregoing explicit obligations
are also consistent with the basic rule that when a hirer delegates work to an
independent contractor, it impliedly delegates its duty to provide a safe
workplace to the contractor. (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways (2011) 54
Cal.4th 590, 600) Prime’s argument that WBCMT (and in turn G & E
as its agent) have non-delegable duties is as referenced above conflating a
different issue: Moving Parties are not contending here they do not have
non-delegable duties as an owner (or manager) of the property to the plaintiff.
Both Moving parties will remain as defendants on Plaintiff’s complaint even if
this motion were granted. The issue here is only whether Prime has a
contractual obligation to indemnify WBCMT and G & E if they were not actively
negligent, i.e., if they did not participate in creating a dangerous condition.

 
SEPARATE STATEMENTS 
 
1.       Prime’s
disputes with Facts 6, 10, 14, 16 through 20 and 24 in G & E’s Separate
Statement 
 
          The issues as to 6, 10, 16-18 and 24 are
merely noting other terms of the agreement. These do not create a factual
dispute. 
 
          The comment as to 14 – that the
dentist’s office did not open until 10:00 am – is not disputed – and in fact helps
defeat Movants’ argument that the work be performed when the business was
closed (i.e., before it opened that day.) The work was at least started before the
business opened that day and apparently would have been completed but for the
USFP employee not having had a ladder. That G & E did not notify the
dentist’s office about the demolition work is irrelevant. The dentist office is
not a defendant and there is no contention by Plaintiff that it has any
responsibility or that the failure to notify the dentist’s office of the
scheduling of the work would have made any difference. The dentist’s office is
not contended to have had responsibility for assuring the outside safety of
those coming to its office. In any event, the dentist testified she was aware
renovations were taking place because she saw them. 
          The comment as to 19 and 20 – Hill’s
testimony that Bartnett was an on-site construction manager – is again not disputed.
Even if G & E’s Bartnett (or whoever was the on-site person at that time) was
responsible for advising Prime which areas to block off (consistent with
ensuring completion of the project), Hill also confirmed that it was still
Prime that was implementing that advice and the party which was in fact cordoning
off those areas. To that end, it is without controversy that Anderson cordoned
off the area by the dentist’s office earlier in the morning when the accident
occurred. G & E was not involved in the cordoning off (or failing to
properly cordon off) the relevant area and had no contractual duty to do so.
Prime offers no evidence otherwise. 
 
2.       Prime’s
disputes with Facts 3, 5-14 and 17-20 in WBCMT’s Separate Statement
 
          The comment as to 3 – that the
agreement required the Construction Manager to be on site whenever work was
being performed – is again not disputed: There is no dispute as to the terms of
the agreement. Moreover, G & E having a representative on-site – presumably
for the same purpose of ensuring the project stayed on schedule – does not mean
that G & E had undertaken a safety responsibility. (See secs. 3.3.1 and
4.2.5) This motion does not turn on whether G & E was or was not off-site:
Prime offered no evidence that the on-site representative was to be there to
assure safety measures or that the on-site representative was in fact involved
in assuring the safety of the area outside the dentist office or that he should
have been. Nor is there any claim that Bartnett (or if not him, any other
representative) was not on site when he should have been. To the contrary, it
is undisputed that Anderson (of Prime) had put up a safety caution outside the
dentist’s office earlier that morning. The USFP employee apparently did not
bring a ladder with him when he started - before the dentist office opened -
and left to obtain one; during which time an item that he was dismantling
allegedly fell on the plaintiff.[5]
Prime offers no evidence that either moving party participated in or reasonably
would have known about this occurrence involving the subcontractor that would
make either “actively” negligent.    
          The same comment as to 5 – 14 and 19
– as to which Prime entity or person is sued – is immaterial for these
purposes. The motion concerns the Prime party that entered into the agreement.
There is no claim by Prime that said party is not the same party sued herein. 
          
The other comments as to 14 (that because WBCMT was not present during
the project, it was not involved in creating or implementing safety measures) are
the two factual issues discussed above (which are undisputed), as well as the
legal issue also discussed above that Moving Parties allowed demolition to take
place during business hours and for the tenant businesses to remain open during
construction. There is no factual dispute as to when the demolition occurred
vis-à-vis the businesses being open or that the agreement contemplated work on
the project while the tenant businesses were still open. The issue is whether
these issues are relevant to determining active negligence in creating a
dangerous condition – for purposes of interpreting the indemnity agreement. As
discussed further below, these undisputed facts do not establish that Prime can
avoid its indemnity obligation.  
          The comment as to 17 (that WBCMT was
not present) – that the G & E Construction Manager was required to be
on-site – does not mean WBCMT was present to create a factual dispute. That G
& E was required to be on-site was discussed above and regardless does not mean
WBCMT was present. 
          The other comment as to 19 (that
Prime was solely responsible for safety measures)  - that the Construction Manager was to
determine whether the work was being performed consistent with the agreement and
notify Owner of any deficiencies) – does not mean that Prime was thereby not
solely responsible for safety measures. Indeed, sec. 4.2.5, quoted above, foresees
this exact claim and refutes that such responsibility means that Prime would
not still be solely responsible for safety measures. 
          The comment as to 20 (that WBMT had
no knowledge of any potentially dangerous condition on the date of the incident)
– that the agreement required the Construction Manager to be on site when work
was being performed – does not create a factual issue: There is no evidence
that the agent of Construction Manager (Bartnett) was not on site. Moreover,
even if he was not, that does not mean WBCMT would have known of any
potentially dangerous condition. Even though WBCMT would have known about the
project generally, there is no evidence that it had any contractual duties as
far as safety or notice of or participation in the cordoning off the area that
any negligence would be deemed active.    
 
3.       Prime’s
additional facts in its Separate Statement 
 
          While both Moving Parties have
objections to certain of these facts, these facts do not create relevant
factual issues. Facts 1-3, 14 and 22-26 merely recite contractual terms. The
remaining facts are undisputed and do not conflict with the facts offered by
Moving Parties: The circumstances of what work was being performed and what
Anderson did are undisputed. There is no question G & E was not involved in
what Anderson was doing. The question is a legal one about whether it should
have been under the agreement. It is also undisputed that G & E did not
advise the dentist about the work being performed but no showing was made why this
was material. There is no claim the dentist was responsible or that the dentist
had any responsibility for what was occurring outside – that the dentist knew
was happening. Fact no. 26 is a legal conclusion that ultimately rests on the
terms of the agreement for purposes of this motion. 
 
APPLICABLE LAW 
 
          What principles the Court can draw
from the cited cases is that where the proposed indemnitee did not have an underlying
contractual obligation to undertake some action that might have avoided the
injury and did not have notice of or participate in what caused the plaintiff
injury, there will not be active negligence. Hence, where here there was at
most a failure to inspect what Anderson had done in cordoning off the area
outside the office and suggest any changes needed (and there is no evidence offered
that changes were needed), that would be passive negligence (as opposed to active
negligence where some act is taken rather than not taken). (Markley v.
Beagle (1967) 66 Cal.2d 951, 955-956, 962) See also Safeway
Stores, supra (finding its negligence as owner to be merely passive where
it merely took no action after another party’s actions led to accident) There
is no factual dispute about these critical issues here. Hence, the Court found
active negligence in Morgan, Burlingame Motor and MacDonald &
Kruse, supra, because in each of those cases the causes of the accident was
based upon actions these parties did undertake to meet various obligations on
their part that were directly tied to what caused the accident. 
 
          Prime offers no evidence that Moving
parties undertook some action that was a part of what occurred here (as opposed
to failing to take some action) that could reasonably be characterized as
“active negligence” on their part. 
          Prime’s focus is instead as to
closing of the shopping center. As discussed above, however, Moving Parties had
no contractual responsibility to close the shopping center during the Project
or for work to be performed only during non-business hours. Moreover, Prime
offers no authority that they were under any such duty to do so. Again, while
this may give rise to liability to an injured person, that is different than it
being a reason why an indemnitor should not have to provide indemnity. 
 
SUMMARY 
 
          Based on the above facts and law, the
Court finds that WBCMT, as off-site (and out of state) owner here, had no
participation in this project and specifically hired Prime as its general
contractor to handle the demolition (and safety issues coming therewith), as
the party in the best position to address those. Similarly, WBCMT hired G &
E as its construction manager. WBCMT’s role was wholly remote and there is no
evidence that any failure on its part was the result of any participation in
the safety issues that led to the alleged incident such that it could be
“actively” negligent – again at least for purposes of interpreting the
agreement (whatever a jury may find as concerns any liability to plaintiff.) The
Court holds WBCMT has a contractual right to indemnity from Prime as a matter
of law. 
          Likewise, the Court finds G & E’s
involvement (while greater than that of WBCMT) still was not related to safety
– even if having parallel obligations. Even discounting that part of sec. 4.2.5
disclaiming G & E would have any contractual obligations at all, Prime has
not shown any triable issues that those duties it had were connected to what
occurred here. Sub-secs. 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4.2.8 of the agreement,
that Prime relies on, are not relevant to safety; instead, all pertaining to under
the broader category in 4.2 of “Administration of the Contract,” including scheduling
and quality issues.  As detailed above, Prime
did not meet its burden to show any triable issue of fact to rebut G & E’s
showing that a plain reading of the agreement placed the safety issue that
occurred here as exclusively Prime’s contractual responsibility, as well as relevant
to this motion that under sec. 1.1.2 G & E also had a contractual right to
expect Prime to perform its obligations, including to indemnify G & E.
Hence, as with WBCMT, the Court finds that for purposes of the agreement, there
are simply no facts offered or law to establish how any negligence on its part
could be deemed “active” to preclude Prime having a contractual obligation to
indemnify.[6]    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons, the Court grants
both motions. 
 
 
DATED:  December__,
2023                                                      
____________________________________
                                                                                                            
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                            
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


