  Case Number:  20STCV49896    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  B Hearing:          01/09/2025
Re:                   20STCV49896
Dolores Cromwell vs Rosa Nunfio

 

 
Defendant-in-Intervention Rosa Nunfio (“Nunfio”)’s Motions to Compel Dolores
Cromwell (“Plaintiff”)’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is granted.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve Defendant with verified, objection-free
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, within 20 days of this hearing. Additionally,
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay $1,942.50
in sanctions to defense counsel within 20 days.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and
for a monetary sanction. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(b).) The statute does
not contain a time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been
served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of
interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
 
Where there has been no timely response to interrogatories, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300(b).) Failure
to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (CCP
§ 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains
relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the interrogatories.
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion.
 
Request for Production of Documents
 
If a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel . . . responses to interrogatories or production demands, absent
substantial justification or other circumstances that make imposing the
sanctions unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290(c).) Similarly, “[t]he court may impose
a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (CCP
§ 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond
or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a
court order to provide discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d) and (g).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant-in-Intervention Rosa Nunfio (“Nunfio”) moves to compel
Plaintiff Dolores Cromwell (“Plaintiff”)’s responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One. Nunfio also seeks sanctions in the amount of $882.50 per
motion, comprised of 3.5 hours of work at an hourly rate of $235.00 and a
$60.00 filing fee. (Trafton Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
Nunfio moves to compel Plaintiff’s response to discovery because Plaintiff
failed to provide any responses. Defendant propounded discovery requests on
Plaintiff on March 27, 2024. (Trafton Decl. ¶ 3; Exh A. [discovery service].) Plaintiff
never provided responses. (Ibid. at ¶ 8.)
 
Accordingly, Nunfio’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One are granted. Plaintiff is to serve Defendant
with verified, objection-free responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within
20 days of this hearing.
 
Considering Plaintiff’s total failure to comply with their discovery
obligations, the Court orders Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and
severally, to pay sanctions in the reduced amount of $647.50 per motion (reflecting
the straightforward nature of this motion and lack of opposition), payable to defense
counsel within 20 days of this hearing.
 
Moving party to give notice. Ct to sign proposed order with reduced
sanction award. 
 
Dated:  January 8, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon.
Karen Moskowitz
Judge
of the Superior Court
 