 Case Number:  23TRCV00057    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
          Wednesday, October 30, 2024
Department M                                                                                                             Calendar No. 14
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Ronald Williams v. Torrance Memorial Medical Center, et al.
            23TRCV00057
1.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 10, and Request for Sanctions
2.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 11, and Request for Sanctions 
3.      Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 9,
and Request for Sanctions
4.      Jody
Aronson, M.D.’s Motion for Protective Order and Request for Sanctions
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ronald Williams’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 10, is granted, in part. 
 
            Ronald
Williams’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 11,
and Request for Sanctions is granted, in part.
 
Ronald Williams’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 9, and Request for
Sanctions is granted, in part. 
 
Jody Aronson, M.D.’s Motion
for Protective Order and Request for Sanctions is continued.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff’s
wife, Chionese Agee, died on November 9, 2022, after surgery at Torrance
Memorial Medical Center. Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action: 1. Wrongful
Death.
 
            Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories
 
Where
responses to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes
that they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or,
because an objection is without merit, that party may move for an order
compelling a further response.  CCP §
2030.300(a).  Notice of the motion must
be given within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any
verified supplemental responses.  CCP §
2030.300(c).  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with CCP §
2016.040.  CCP § 2030.300(b).
 
            Meet
and Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth meet and
confer declarations in substantial compliance with CCP §§ 2030.300(b)(1).  (Declarations, Neil Howard.)
 
Motions to
Compel 
 
Special Interrogatories, Set
10
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 10, is granted. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220
states:
“(a) Each answer in a
response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.
(b) If an interrogatory
cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.
(c) If the responding party
does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.240
states:
“(a) If only a part of an
interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be
answered.
(b) If an objection is made
to an interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for
the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection is
based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be
clearly stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information sought
is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010),
that claim shall be expressly asserted.”
 
As to Special
Interrogatories, Set 10, Nos. 240 to 244, Defendant failed to serve responses
that are fully compliant with CCP § 2030.220. While Defendant asserted that it
does not currently have the information available to respond and that it has
made a reasonable effort, Defendant did not state that this reasonable effort
was made by inquiring to other people and organizations.
 
Thus, the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 10, is granted.
 
Defendant is ordered to
serve further responses within 10 days of this date.
 
Special Interrogatories, Set
11
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 11, is granted. The wording
of the interrogatories is sufficiently clear such that Defendant should be able
to formulate a factual response. In addition, merely pointing to the fact that
medical records have been produced does not sufficiently establish that
Plaintiff has the specific information called for in these interrogatories at
his disposal.
 
Thus, the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 11, is granted.
 
Defendant is ordered to
serve further responses within 10 days of this date.
 
Special Interrogatories, Set
9

Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 9, is granted. Defendant
served objections to interrogatories 230 to 239 including objections based on
the attorney/client privilege and work product doctrine. Defendant has not justified
its objections. 
 
            Each
of the interrogatories in question essentially seek the identity of the
individual(s) that Defendant contacted in attempting to formulate responses and
obtain documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set 11. While it is true that potentially these interrogatories may contemplate
matter that may be subject to a privilege based on the attorney/client
privilege, Defendant provided no factual declaration or any evidence that would
support the objections. 
 
            “The
party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary
facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the
course of an attorney-client relationship. [Citations.] Once that party
establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim of privilege, the
communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and the opponent of
the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the communication
was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other reasons apply.” DP
Pham, LLC v. Cheadle (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 653, 665. Here, Defendant
submitted no evidence to establish the preliminary facts supporting the
existence of the attorney/client privilege.
 
Thus, the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 9, is granted. 
 
Defendant is ordered to
serve further responses within 10 days of this date.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
The
Court determines that, pursuant to CCP § 2030.300(d), other circumstances exist
to make the imposition of sanctions unjust. 
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
The
Court is authorized to limit discovery through a protective order.  The order may be granted on the motion of any
party or other person affected by the discovery sought.  CCP §§ 2017.020(a), 2019.020(b),
2019.030(a).  A protective order may be
obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any discovery method on any
of the following grounds:  (1)  “The discovery sought is unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative …;  (2)  “(The information) is obtainable from some
other source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive;  (3) 
“The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive,
taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  CCP § 2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.080 states:
“(a)
When requests for admission have been made, the responding party may promptly
move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b)
The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or
undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited
to, one or more of the following directions:
(1)
That the set of admission requests, or particular requests in the set, need not
be answered at all.
(2)
That, contrary to the representations made in a declaration submitted under
Section 2033.050, the number of admission requests is unwarranted.
(3)
That the time specified in Section 2033.250 to respond to the set of admission
requests, or to particular requests in the set, be extended.
(4)
That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be admitted or be admitted only in a certain way.
(5)
That some or all of the answers to requests for admission be sealed and
thereafter opened only on order of the court.
(c)
If the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court
may order that the responding party provide or permit the discovery against
which protection was sought on terms and conditions that are just.
(d)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.090 states:
“(a)
When interrogatories have been propounded, the responding party, and any other
party or affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a
protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b)
The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This
protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the
following directions:
(1)
That the set of interrogatories, or particular interrogatories in the set, need
not be answered.
(2)
That, contrary to the representations made in a declaration submitted under
Section 2030.050, the number of specially prepared interrogatories is
unwarranted.
(3)
That the time specified in Section 2030.260 to respond to the set of
interrogatories, or to particular interrogatories in the set, be extended.
(4)
That the response be made only on specified terms and conditions.
(5)
That the method of discovery be an oral deposition instead of interrogatories
to a party.
(6)
That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a certain way.
(7)
That some or all of the answers to interrogatories be sealed and thereafter
opened only on order of the court.
(c)
If the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court
may order that the party provide or permit the discovery against which
protection was sought on terms and conditions that are just.
(d)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Meet and Confer
 
No
declaration was filed with the Court. 
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
Defendant
moves for a protective order “relieving her from having to respond to Request
for Admissions, Set 9 (Exh. A), and the accompanying Form Interrogatory, Set 8
(Form Exh. B), for an order precluding plaintiff from serving any additional
discovery on Dr. Aronson, other than discovery seeking later acquired
information (Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2030.070 and 2031.050), without prior
leave of court, and for monetary sanctions[.]” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines
2-6.)
 
The
Court notes that, in the caption of the motion, Defendant stated the following:
“[Declarations and Exhibits submitted separately, concurrently herewith.]”
However, no declarations or exhibits were filed with the Court. It does appear,
however, that the missing declarations and exhibits were served upon Plaintiff.
 
Therefore,
Defendant Jody Aronson’s Motion for Protective Order is continued. The
documents that were served upon Plaintiff but not filed with the Court are
ordered to be filed within five days of this date.
 
Defendant
Jody Aronson’s Motion for Protective Order is continued to January 30, 2024.
The Court further notes that if Plaintiff’s opposition is correct that only 23
Requests for Admissions remain in dispute, the Court recommends that the
parties meet and confer such that an amicable resolution to the dispute is
reached without the need for Court intervention.
 
Due
to the Court’s holiday and vacation schedule, the motions currently set for December
3 and December 4, 2024, including Torrance Memorial Medical Center’s Motion for
Protective Order and Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand
for Production of Documents, Set 15, are also continued to January 30, 2024.
 
The
motions currently scheduled for November 16, 2024 remain on that date.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 