  Case Number:  22TRCV00168    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Wednesday,
October 30, 2024
Department B                                                                                                
        Calendar No. 12 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Eden Dabalus v. Jose Ian Mangisay, et
al. 
            22TRCV00168
1.      Ferdinand Canlas’ Motion to Vacate Default and Default
Judgment  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ferdinand Canlas’ Motion to Vacate
Default is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March
4, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff and Defendants
entered into several partnership agreements to operate several businesses.
Defendants made improper demands for payment to Plaintiff and proceeded to terminate
Plaintiff’s partnership. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1.
Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
3. Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4. Accounting 5. Conversion; 6. Dissolution of
Caring Hands Hospice, LLC; 7. Dissolution of Allure Med Spa and Wellness LLC;
8. Dissolution of Endeavors Medical Group Corp.; 9. Dissolution of Splendor
Hospice and Palliative Care, LLC; 10. Dissolution of Joshua’s Palliative Care
and Hospice.
 
            Moving party’s default was entered
on October 12, 2023 after Defendant failed to appear for the hearing on that
date for: “Order to Show Cause Re: Striking Answers of Jose Manginsay and
Ferdinand Canlas, if defendants fail to appear; Case Management Conference;
Order to Show Cause Re: Status of proof of services as to remaining named
defendants.” No default judgment has been entered in this case. 
 
Motion to Set Aside Default
 
            CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant
part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant
part: “When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party
in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action.  The notice of motion shall be
served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her;
or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.” 
 
            CCP § 473.5(b) states: “A notice of
motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by
subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” The phrase
“actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not
include constructive or imputed notice to the client. Tunis v. Barrow
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.
 
            “After six months from entry of
default, a trial court may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if
statutory relief is unavailable.  . . .
One ground for equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied
when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a
hearing on the merits. Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ...
a mistake led a court to do what it never intended[.] When a default judgment has
been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Defendant moves for an order setting
aside the default entered against Defendant on October 12, 2023 on the grounds
that the default was entered because of excusable neglect, fraud, and/or
mistake. Defendant also moves pursuant to the equitable power of the Court.
 
            As noted above, because the entry of
default was made more than six months prior to the filing of this motion, the
motion can only be granted pursuant to the equitable power of the Court. Thus,
the Court will focus on the elements as outlined in Rappleyea cited
above. 
 
            First, Defendant has demonstrated
the existence of his assertion that he has a meritorious defense since
Defendant had previously filed an Answer in this case on October 14, 2022. 
 
Second, Defendant provided a satisfactory excuse for
not presenting a defense. Defendant contends that his inadvertence in properly
calendaring the October 12, 2023 hearing resulted in his failure to attend.
(Decl., Canlas, ¶ 7.)  The Court further
notes that, on August 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel was ordered to give notice
of the hearing date of October 12, 2023, which specifically outlined that the
Defendant’s Answer would be stricken if he did not attend. There is no
indication in the Court’s file that Plaintiff ever gave notice of the August 3,
2023 hearing and the upcoming October 12, 2023 date. 
 
Third, Defendant provides a sufficient showing of
reasonable diligence in seeking to set aside the default once discovered.  Defenant states that he never received notice
of the Court’s order of October 12, 2023 and only realized default was entered
after receiving the default judgment package that was received on July 19, 2024.
(Id. at ¶¶ 8-9.)  Once again, the Court’s
file does not indicate that Plaintiff ever gave notice of the court’s ruling of
October 12, 2023, as well. In Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff contends that
notice was given but simply not filed with the Court. However, no declaration
was provided from an individual with personal knowledge regarding the notice.
The person who allegedly provided the notice, Kari A. Keidser, failed to
provide a declaration in order to lay a foundation for the purported exhibit
which allegedly demonstrates notice was provided via U.S. mail to Co-Defendant
Jose Manginsay. 
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion to
vacate the default is granted. The Court does note that it is somewhat
perplexed regarding the requests to recall the writ of execution and writ of
levy which were mentioned in both the motion and Reply. Since no judgment has
been entered, it is unclear how any such writs could have been obtained. If such
writs were obtained, the Court will have questions for Plaintiff at the time of
the hearing.
 
Defendant’s Answer filed on October 14, 2022 is hereby
reinstated.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
            