 Case Number:  22STCV23140    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 18, 2023                TRIAL DATE: March
5, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Berenice Ceja v. Rahn Industries, Inc.,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV23140            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF ELIGO RODRIGUEZ; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Berenice Ceja
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Eligo
Rodriguez
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on July 19,
2022. Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected to extensive sexual harassment
and retaliation for complaining about the harassment to which she was
subjected, culminating in her termination.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant
Eligo Rodriguez to appear for a deposition, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition is DENIED AS MOOT.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant
Eligo Rodriguez to appear for a deposition, and for sanctions. 
 
//
 
//
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
The declarations of Attorneys Guile Gomez
and Tizoc Perez-Casillas state that Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and
confer extensively with Defendant’s counsel via email and telephone between
September 20, 2023 and October 18, 2023. (Declaration of Guile Gomez ISO Mot.
¶¶ 4-6 Exhs. 1, 6-7; Declaration of Tizoc Perez-Casillas ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-3 Exhs.
2-5.) The declarations state that the parties were unable to resolve this
dispute. (Id.) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has satisfied her
statutory meet and confer obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
            The undisputed facts show that
Defendant’s counsel provided deposition dates approximately one hour after this
motion was filed on October 26, 2023, and that the deposition was conducted on
November 29, 2023. (Declaration of Michelle Perez-Yanez ISO Opp. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh.
1.) Plaintiff maintains, nonetheless, that sanctions should be awarded against
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel, jointly and severally, for misuse of the
discovery process. 
            
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions against
any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel deposition,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. The Court may award sanctions in favor of a party who moves to compel
discovery even if the discovery is provided after the motion is filed. (See Cal
Rules of Court Rule 3.1348.) 
 
Here, however,
the Court believes that imposition of sanctions against Defendant would be
unjust. “[T]he purpose of discovery sanctions is not to provide a weapon for
punishment, forfeiture and the avoidance of a trial on the merits . . . but to
prevent abuse of the discovery process and correct the problem presented.” (McGinty
v. Superior Court (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 204, 210 [internal citations and
quotations omitted].) That purpose is not served by imposing sanctions on a
party who provides deposition dates within an hour of service of a motion to
compel and then follows through by sitting for deposition. The problem has been
corrected, and imposition of sanctions would only serve to impose unnecessary punishment
on Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition is DENIED AS MOOT.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 18, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 