  Case Number:  21STCV07459    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgmentMoving Party:                 Defendant Shannice Mabandla, M.D.Responding Party: None. Tentative Ruling: GrantedBACKGROUNDPlaintiffs Christina Robles (“Robles”), Steve Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”), and Aiden James Gonzales (“Aiden”), a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Christina Robles (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants White Memorial Medical Center dba Adventist Health White Memorial (“WMMC”), Ardeshir Karimi, M.D., Shannice Mabandla, M.D., Chasity D. Jennings-Nunez, M.D., Kerry Park, M.D., Connie Choe, R.N., and Does 1 to 100 for (1) medical malpractice and (2) negligent infliction of emotional distress. The FAC alleges that defendants failed to provide proper medical treatment to Robles during child labor, which resulted in childbirth injuries to Aiden. (FAC ¶ 37.) Gonzalez is the father of Aiden. (Id. ¶ 3.)Defendant Shannice Mabandla, M.D. (“Dr. Mabandla”) moves for summary judgment on the grounds that she abided by the applicable standard of care, and that she did not cause Plaintiffs’ injuries. Any opposition was due on or before May 31, 2024. No opposition has been filed to date.LEGAL STANDARDA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)““The pleadings define the issues to be considered on a motion for summary judgment” (Sturgeon v. Bratton (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1407, 1417–1418, 95 Cal.Rptr.3d 718), and the issues framed by the pleadings are the only issues a motion for summary judgment must address. [Citation].” (Physicians Comm. for Responsible Med. v. McDonald's Corp. (2010) 187 Cal. App. 4th 554, 568.)DISCUSSIONAs framed by the pleadings, Plaintiffs allege Robles presented herself to WMMC on December 1, 2019 while 36.6 weeks pregnant. (FAC ¶ 10.) Robles was under the care of defendants as her “primary care physicians.” (Id. ¶ 13.) During delivery, Aiden’s arm was struck, causing shoulder dystocia. (Id. ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that defendants failed to properly diagnose the need for a Cesarean delivery, which resulted in childbirth injuries of shoulder dystocia and future developmental injuries to Aiden, fourth degree perineal laceration to Robles, and emotional distress to Gonzalez. (Id. ¶¶ 37-39.)Dr. Mabandla asserts she is entitled to summary judgment because she did not perform the ultrasound for estimated fetal weight, and that she was neither present nor did she participate in the delivery of Aiden. Dr. Mabandla asserts that her treatment of Robles fell within the standard of care at all times, and that no action or omission by her caused or substantially contributed to Plaintiffs’ injuries. In support thereof, Dr. Mabandla proffers the declaration of obstetrician/gynecologist Stephen A. Herbert, M.D. (“Dr. Herbert”). The standard of care against which the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the knowledge of experts. (Elcome v. Chin (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.) Unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only be proved by an expert’s testimony. (Ibid.) If the “common knowledge” exception does not apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot be disregarded. (Ibid.)Dr. Herbert opines that at the time Robles presented to WMMC, Dr. Mabandla was an intern known as a PGY-1. (Herbert Decl. ¶ 45.) Dr. Herbert provides it was appropriate and within the standard of care for an intern to perform a history and physical on an obstetrical patient presenting to labor and delivery, and that Dr. Mabandla’s report of the patient’s history, physical examination, and findings to her senior resident Dr. Di Bella complied with the standard of care. (Id. ¶¶ 45-46.) Dr. Herbert avers there is no evidence that Dr. Mabandla was present for or participated in Aiden’s delivery, and that the delivering physicians were Dr. Jennings-Nunez and Dr. Di Bella. (Id. ¶ 48.) Dr. Mabandla was also not noted as one of the others present at the delivery. (Ibid.) Therefore, Dr. Herbert is of the opinion that to a reasonable degree of medical probability, no act or omission by Dr. Mabandla caused, contributed, or was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ injuries. (Id. ¶¶ 49-51.)Dr. Herbert’s declaration is sufficient to meet Dr. Mabandla’s moving burden to establish that Dr. Mabandla is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. “‘When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.’” (Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.) The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiffs to raise a triable issue of material fact in this regard. Because Plaintiffs did not oppose the motion, Plaintiffs necessarily fail to demonstrate with admissible or competent evidence that there are any triable issues of material fact.   CONCLUSION Defendant Shannice Mabandla, M.D.’s motion for summary judgment against Plaintiffs’ FAC is GRANTED. Moving party is ordered to give notice.