  Case Number:  23AHCV00867    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ORLANDO GARCIA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LOS
   POZITOS, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00867
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   24, 2024



 
On April 18,
 2023, plaintiff Orlando Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against defendant Los Pozitos, Inc. (“Defendant”). On September
 15, 2023 Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories (Set One),
Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set
One), and Requests for Admissions (Set One) on Defendant.
No responses were received. Defendant did not serve any responses and ignored
Plaintiff’s attempts to meet and confer. As a result, Plaintiff filed this
motion for an order compelling Defendant to serve verified discovery responses without
objections and deeming the truth of the matters within Requests for Admissions
(Set One) admitted. The motion is unopposed. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to interrogatories and inspection demands, the court may make an
order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails
to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones
based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) The Code of Civil
Procedure provides that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the
party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party
acted with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants them relief from the waiver,
upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially
compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result
of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).) The court shall grant
a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the
party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before
the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Where a party fails to provide a timely
response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Defendant
did not oppose this motion and it is undisputed that Defendant did not serve responses
to Defendant’s discovery requests.  There
is also no evidence that substantially compliant responses to Defendant’s
Requests for Admissions (Set One) have been served before the hearing. 
However, “[e]very direction of a court
or judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is
denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 1003.) Government Code section 70617 requires payment of a $60 filing
fee for each motion filed with the Court. Here, Plaintiff seeks 4 orders
regarding 4 different discovery devices but filed only one motion. Plaintiff
may not circumvent the Government Code with an omnibus filing; accordingly, the
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion on the condition that Plaintiff pay 3
additional filing fees and file proof of payment with the Court. 
The Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions on the same condition and imposes sanctions against Defendant and
counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $640,
consisting of 1 hour at a billing rate of $400 ($100 per motion) and $240 in
filing fees. 
          Defendant is
ordered to pay sanctions and serve verified responses, without objections, to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), and Form Interrogatories (Set One) no later than 20
days after Plaintiff files proof that the 3 additional filing fees have been
paid. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 24th
day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.