 Case Number:  24AHCV00446    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALLY BANK, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MARINE
   NERSISYAN, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24AHCV00446
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
  24, 2024




 


)


 



          
          Plaintiff
Ally Bank (“Plaintiff”) seeks a writ of possession against defendants Marine
Nersisyan (“Nersisyan”), Devine Motorworkz Corp. (“Body Shop”), and Grigor
Cholakyan, individually and dba Devine Motorworkz (“Cholakyan”) for a 2013 Mercedes-Benz
G Class (“Subject Vehicle”).
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at
any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a
writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court
in which the action is brought.” (CCP § 512.010(a).) Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and
include: 
(1) A showing of the basis of the
plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the
property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached. 
(2) A showing that the property is
wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came
into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge,
information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention. 
(3) A particular description of the
property and a statement of its value. 
(4) A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there. 
(5) A statement that the property has
not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized,
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure. 
Before the hearing on the writ of
possession, the defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and
complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the
application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (CCP § 512.030.) “The writ will be issued if
the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other
requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (CCP § 512.040(b).) “A
claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the
plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (CCP §
511.090.)
          Here, Plaintiff
has shown that it is entitled to possession of the Subject Vehicle and that it
is being wrongfully detained by Body Shop and Cholakyan. The Court notes that
Defendants are currently in default, therefore they have admitted all the
allegations of the Complaint and Plaintiff is nearly certain to obtain a
judgment against Defendants as long as they submit a proposed order which
conforms to the Court’s ruling issued on September 12, 2024. In addition,
Plaintiff has shown there is probable cause to believe that the Subject Vehicle
is located at 9601 Glenoaks Blvd., Unit 6, Sun Valley, CA 91352, which is Body
Shop’s principal place of business. The Court also finds that Defendants have
no interest in the Subject Vehicle and Plaintiff does not need to submit an
undertaking. (CCP § 515.010(b).)
The application for an order issuing a
writ of possession is GRANTED. However, Item 3d of the proposed order also
states that there is probable cause for the Subject Vehicle to be located at
630 S. Lake St. Apt 104, Burbank, CA 91502. as a probable location of the
Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff has not made any showing with regard to this latter
address. Therefore, the Court interlineates the proposed order to strike the
references to 630 S. Lake St. Apt 104, Burbank, CA 91502 in Items 3d and 5f in
the proposed order.           
 
 
Dated
this 24th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 