 Case Number:  24TRCV01218    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  8   Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: January 10, 2024CASE NUMBER: 24TRCV01218CASE NAME: Noemi Cerna v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, et al.MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC Plaintiff, Noemi CernaRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Noemi CernaTRIAL DATE: July 17, 2025MOTION: (1) Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff(2) Request for Monetary SanctionsTentative Rulings: (1) GRANTED, with the parties to advise the Court of the date, time, and location if they agree on one of the two offered dates for Plaintiff’s deposition, and if not the Court will select a date and order it.(2) Request for Monetary Sanctions DENIED without prejudice to being renewed if a further hearing is required.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn April 9, 2024, Plaintiff, Noemi Cerna (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”), and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Violation of Song Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty.The moving papers assert that on October 11, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff, Karen Mullen with Defendant’s Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff. Moreover, on October 23, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with Defendant’s Amended Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff, which was set for November 14, 2024 at Clark Hill LLP’s Los Angeles office. (Declaration of Andre Karchemsky (“Karchemsky Decl.”), ¶ 3, Exhibit B.) On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff served objections to Defendant, which indicated that “Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are unavailable” and they requested that “Defendant meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel in order to schedule the deposition on a mutually agreeable date.” (Karchemsky Decl., ¶ 4, Exhibit C.) The Parties’ counsels met and conferred on November 7, 2024. Defendant’s counsel requested Plaintiff to provide dates of availability by November 11, 2024. However, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has not responded with any dates.As such, Defendant MBUSA has moved on a Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff.B. ProceduralOn December 6, 2024, Defendant MBUSA filed this Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition. On December 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On December 31, 2024, MBUSA filed a reply brief.II. ANALYSISA. Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, section (a) provides:“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)The motion must “be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)B. Discussioni. Meet and Confer EffortsPlaintiff’s opposition brief argues that MBUSA failed to meet and confer in good faith when it demanded a response within two (2) business days during the holiday season. The Court agrees. Both parties have failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to Court intervention. A review of the email exchanges between the Parties’ counsel does not demonstrate good faith discovery efforts.ii. Motion to Compel DepositionMBUSA seeks an order from this Court compelling Plaintiff to produce Plaintiff for deposition, in person, within fifteen (15) days of the Court’s ruling. Plaintiff’s opposition states that this Motion is mooted by Plaintiff’s offering of reasonable alternative dates for Plaintiff’s deposition. In light of the holiday season, Plaintiff’s counsel has expressed that due tounavailability of both Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel for a date of February 7, 2025 on December 6, 2024 and an alternative date of March 12, 2025. While the substantive portion of the merits of this Motion are arguably mooted by Plaintiff’s providing of two dates prior to the hearing, no date has been agreed upon and the Court is inclined to order Plaintiff to appear on one of those two offered dates so avoid the need for a further hearing. Plaintiff failed to provide these dates until after MBUSA filed this motion, which appears tot eh Court to be discovery misuses. However, MBUSA gave Plaintiff only two days to respond tot eh meet and confer letter, which is troubling.iii. SanctionsWhile Plaintiff offered tow alternative dates for the Plaintiff’s deposition prior to the hearing, no good cause has been presented as to why that did not happen before the motion was filed. However, the Court does not award monetary sanctions at this time on the grounds that the meet and confer efforts were insufficient. MBUSA claims Plaintiff failed to provide alternative deposition dates in correspondence dated November 11, 2024. However, there is no follow up email, no indication or evidence of telephonic efforts on the part of Defense counsel, and no meet and confer email to Plaintiff’s counsel of his intention to file this motion if alternative dates were not provided. As such, the Court does not award sanctions at this time, but reserves the prospect of doing so if a further hearing is required on the taking of Plaintiff’s deposition.