  Case Number:  23PSCV02792    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Arturo Salvador’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Arturo Salvador’s Motion for Leave to File  Cross-Complaint is GRANTED and Defendant Arturo Salvador is ordered to  separately file the proposed Cross-Complaint with the Court forthwith. BACKGROUND This  is an action for breach of contract and fraud. In March 2021, Plaintiff  Wilfredo Machado Pacheco entered into an alleged agreement with Defendant  Arturo Salvador in which Machado Pacheco agreed to invest $300,000 in  Salvador’s transportation business. In exchange, Salvador allegedly promised to  transfer the titles for twenty-one of the business’s tractor-trailer vehicles  to Machado Pacheco. After Machado Pacheco transferred $307,200 to Salvador and  Salvador’s business partners, Salvador allegedly failed to transfer the titles  or return the money. On  September 12, 2023, Machado Pacheco filed a complaint against Salvador and Does  1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) breach of oral  contract, (3) conversion, and (4) common counts. On December 8, 2023, Salvador filed an answer to the  Complaint. On October  17, 2024, Salvador filed the  present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for November 13, 2024,  along with an informal discovery conference and post-mediation status  conference/trial setting conference. ANALYSIS Salvador seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Armando  Paniagua Prudencio, Erika Sarai Liopez Ventura, Maria Angelica Espinoza Chavez,  Jose Amilcar Solorzano Monge, Keiry Vanessa Lopez Ventura, Carlos Ernesto  Hernandez Perez, and Roes 1-50 that alleges causes of action for (1) equitable  indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3) comparative indemnity, (4) apportionment  of fault, and (5) contribution. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Salvador’s motion. Legal  Standard Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), a party is entitled  to “file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint  or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer  to the complaint or cross-complaint.” Furthermore, “[a]ny other cross-complaint  may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 428.50, subd. (b).) If a cross-compliant is not filed within these  guidelines, it may only be filed with leave of the court, who may grant it “in  the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) A  cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the  time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990)  221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)  A “‘[r]elated cause of action’ means a cause of  action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of  transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges  in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  Leave must be  granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in  good faith. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) “[W]hat  constitutes ‘good faith’—or lack of it—under Code of Civil Procedure Section  426.50 must be determined in light of and in conformity with the liberality  conferred upon the trial courts by the section and by prior law. … [T]his  principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in  order to support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this  section.” (Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980)  114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) A determination of bad faith may be premised on  “substantial injustice or prejudice” to the opposing party.  (Id., at  p. 903; see also Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 560, fn. 9  [stating leave was properly denied where defendant’s motion “was merely a  tactical strategic maneuver to deprive plaintiffs of a right to a jury  trial”].) Discussion In  this case, Salvador’s counsel states  Salvador’s claims are compulsory because they arise out the same transaction or  series of events as Machado Pacheco’s action. (Seyfnia Decl., ¶ 8.) While  Salvador filed an answer, Salvador initially delayed in filing the proposed  cross-complaint to see if Salvador and Machado Pacheco could resolve their  dispute through mediation. (Seyfnia Decl., ¶ 5-6.) After they were unable to do  so by October 2024, Salvador’s counsel began the process of preparing this  cross-complaint. (Seyfnia Decl., ¶ 7.) Based on these representations, the  court finds Salvador has established good cause to file a cross-complaint.  Further, the court received  no opposition to the present motion. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Salvador’s  motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Salvador’s motion for  leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED and Salvador is ordered to  separately file the proposed cross-complaint with the court forthwith.