 Case Number:  24PSCV01654    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Checkr, Inc.’s Demurrer
to Plaintiffs Candice Ruppert and Kenneth Ruppert’s First Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs
Candice Ruppert and Kenneth Ruppert
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Checkr, Inc.’s Demurrer
to Plaintiffs Candice Ruppert and Kenneth Ruppert’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED
IN PART as to the first cause of action and SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20)
days leave to amend as to the second cause of action.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. Defendant Uber
Technologies, Inc. (Uber) is a transportation network company that provides rides
to passengers. Defendant Rasier, LLC (Rasier) handles all payment transactions
between Uber and its drivers while Defendant Checkr, Inc. (Checkr) runs
background checks and screenings of drivers for Uber. In October 2022,
Plaintiffs Candice Ruppert and Kenneth Ruppert ordered a ride from Uber and
were picked by Uber’s driver, Defendant Xiuhe Huang. During the drive, the Rupperts
allege Huang was utilizing other transportation and delivery applications. As
an alleged result of these distractions, Huang rear-ended another motor vehicle
at a high rate of speed that was operated by Plaintiff Erma Cabugnason.
On
May 21, 2024, the Rupperts filed a complaint against Uber, Huang, and Does
1-10, alleging causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) negligent hiring,
supervision, and training.
On
June 5, 2024, Cabugnason filed a complaint against Uber, Huang, and Does 1-50,
alleging causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) general
negligence.
On
July 26, 2024, the Rupperts filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Uber,
Checkr, Rasier, Huang, and Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for (1)
negligence and (2) negligent hiring, supervision, and training.
On
September 25, 2024, Checkr filed a demurrer and then withdrew it. On October
15, 2024, Checkr filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing on September 5,
2024, Checkr’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with the Rupperts’
counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Jindal Decl., ¶ 4.)
A hearing
on the demurrer is set for November 13, 2024, along with a case management
conference and a hearing on a motion to be admitted pro hac vice. An informal
discovery conference is also set for November 26, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Checkr
demurs to the Rupperts’ entire FAC. For the following reasons, the court OVERRULES Checkr’s demurrer to the
first cause of action and SUSTAINS Checkr’s demurrer to the second cause of action with
leave to amend.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Negligence (First Cause of Action)
Checkr
argues the Rupperts’ first cause of action for negligence fails because they
did not adequately plead breach and causation. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
The
basic elements of a negligence claim are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,
and (4) damages. (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 472, 480.) Because “[a]llegations of negligence have long been
exempted from the code pleading requirement to state the facts constituting the
cause of action,” it may be pleaded generally. (McCoy v. Gustafson (2009)
180 Cal.App.4th 56, 102.)
Discussion
In
this case, the FAC alleges Checkr failed to conduct a thorough background check
of Huang which would have uncovered Huang’s unsafe driving history. (FAC, ¶ 25-26.)
Checkr argues this allegation is insufficient because federal law prohibits
agencies like Checkr from reporting all criminal conduct and driving history.
(Demurrer, p. 6:5-11.) They point to the Federal Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)
which prohibits a “consumer reporting agency” from providing reports that
contain “[c]ivil suits, civil judgments, and records of arrest that, from date
of entry, antedate the report by more than seven years or until the governing
statute of limitations has expired, whichever is the longer period.” (15
U.S.C., § 1681c, subd. (a)(2).) The FCRA also prohibits consumer reporting
agencies from reporting “[a]ny other adverse item of information, other than
records of convictions of crimes which antedates the report by more than seven
years.” (15 U.S.C., § 1681c, subd. (a)(5).)
This
argument fails, however, since there are no allegations in the FAC that
establish Huang’s driving report included information outside of the seven-year
period imposed by the FCRA. Thus, on their face, the allegations of Checkr’s
alleged breach are not foreclosed by federal consumer reporting requirements. Checkr
also argues these allegations are not made with particularity since the FAC
does not specify which incidents in Huang’s driving record are at issue. (Demurrer,
p. 6:12-23.) But, such specificity is not required here as negligence may be
alleged generally.
Accordingly,
the court OVERRULES Checkr’s demurrer to this cause of action.
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Training (Second
Cause of Action)
Checkr
contends the Rupperts’ second cause of action for negligent hiring,
supervision, and training fails because the FAC does not allege Checkr was
Huang’s employer. The court agrees/disagrees.
Legal Standard
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision
are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the
employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue
risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan
F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
Discussion
In
this case, the Rupperts admit they failed to allege Huang was Checkr’s employee.
(Opp., p. 6:21-22.) They request leave to amend the FAC to include allegations Checkr
was negligent in hiring, supervising, and training its employees in performing
background checks. (Opp., p. 6:23-7:12.)
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Checkr’s demurrer to this cause of action with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Checkr’s
demurrer to the Rupperts’ FAC is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action and SUSTAINED as to the second cause of action with twenty (20) leave to amend.