 Case Number:  22STCV22258    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   The complaint, amendments, and answers 
On
July 11, 2022, Plaintiff Ebony Tay (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Neiman Marcus Group LLC, Doe 1, and Does 2-100 for premises
liability, negligence, and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention. 
On
August 8, 2022, Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as
Neiman Marcus Group LLC) filed an answer. 
On
December 29, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants The
Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc. as Doe 2 and The Neiman Marcus Group, LLC as Doe 3. 
On
January 25, 2024, Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group LLC f/k/a The Neiman Marcus
Group, Inc., improperly named as The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (Doe 2) and
Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group LLC f/k/a The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.,
improperly named as The Neiman Marcus Group, LLC (Doe 3) filed answers. 
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lidija
Lilija as Doe 1. 
B.   Motion and amended motion to compel depositions, to appoint a
discovery referee, and for sanctions 
On
November 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the depositions of Defendant
Neiman Marcus Group, LLC’s employees Aisha McQueen, Allyson Sims, an unknown
male, and an unknown female, and for sanctions. 
The motion was set for hearing on December 27, 2023.  
On
December 13, 2023, Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC (“Neiman”) filed an
opposition. 
On
December 14, 2023, Plaintiff rescheduled the hearing on the
motion for February 29, 2024. 
On
February 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended motion to compel the depositions
of Neiman’s employees Aisha McQueen, Allyson Sims, an unknown male, an
unknown female, and Dr. Joshua Prager, for appointment of a discovery referee,
and for sanctions.  The motion was set to
be heard on February 29, 2024.  On
February 20, 2024, Neiman filed an opposition to the amended motion and a request
for sanctions.  On February 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.  The Court
continued the hearing to April 8, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 9, 2024. 
C.   Improper bundling of motions 
Plaintiff
has filed one purported motion which contains requests to compel five different
depositions and to appoint a discovery referee. 
As a result, instead of giving each request its own place on the
calendar and time for Court consideration, the Court was required to provide
tentative rulings on six substantive matters within the time provided for one
matter.  The Court admonishes Plaintiff that
the Court will refuse to consider any future motions that contain more than one
properly presented issue. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court (1) to compel Neiman to produce Aisha McQueen, Allyson Sims, an
unknown male employee, an unknown female employee, and Dr. Joshua Prager for
depositions, (2) to appoint a discovery referee at Neiman’s expense, and (3) to
award monetary sanctions against Neiman. 
Neiman
asks the Court (1) to deny the motion to compel depositions, (2) to order Plaintiff
to bear the cost of a discovery referee, and (3) to award monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Depositions 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280, subdivision
(a), provides: 
“The service of a deposition notice under Section
2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to
testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
  “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
          California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a) provides that, except as provided in subdivision
(b), a motion to compel answers at a deposition must be accompanied by a
separate statement.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  Subdivision (b)
provides that a separate statement is not required when “no response has been
provided to the request for discovery.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).) 
B.   Discovery referee 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 639 provides in part: 
“(a) When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the written motion of any party, or of its own motion, appoint a referee
in the following cases pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (b) of Section
640: 
* * * 
“(5) When the court in any pending action determines
that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine
any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action
and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon. 
* * *
 “(c) When a referee is
appointed pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a), the order shall
indicate whether the referee is being appointed for all discovery purposes in
the action. 
“(d) All
appointments of referees pursuant to this section shall be by written order and
shall include the following: 
“(1) When the
referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of subdivision
(a), a statement of the reason the referee is being appointed. 
“(2) When the
referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a), the
exceptional circumstances requiring the reference, which must be specific to
the circumstances of the particular case. 
“(3) The
subject matter or matters included in the reference. 
“(4) The
name, business address, and telephone number of the referee. 
“(5) The
maximum hourly rate the referee may charge and, at the request of any party,
the maximum number of hours for which the referee may charge. Upon the written
application of any party or the referee, the court may, for good cause shown,
modify the maximum number of hours subject to any findings as set forth in
paragraph (6). 
“(6) (A)
Either a finding that no party has established an economic inability to pay a
pro rata share of the referee’s fee or a finding that one or more parties has
established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fees
and that another party has agreed voluntarily to pay that additional share of
the referee’s fee. A court shall not appoint a referee at a cost to the parties
if neither of these findings is made. 
“(B) In determining whether a party has established an
inability to pay the referee’s fees under subparagraph (A), the court shall
consider only the ability of the party, not the party’s counsel, to pay these
fees. If a party is proceeding in forma pauperis, the party shall be deemed by
the court to have an economic inability to pay the referee’s fees. However, a
determination of economic inability to pay the fees shall not be limited to
parties that proceed in forma pauperis. For those parties who are not proceeding
in forma pauperis, the court, in determining whether a party has established an
inability to pay the fees, shall consider, among other things, the estimated
cost of the referral and the impact of the proposed fees on the party’s ability
to proceed with the litigation. 
“(e) In any matter in which a referee is appointed
pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a), a copy of the order appointing
the referee shall be forwarded to the office of the presiding judge of the
court. The Judicial Council shall, by rule, collect information on the use of
these references and the reference fees charged to litigants, and shall report
thereon to the Legislature by July 1, 2003. This subdivision shall become
inoperative on January 1, 2004.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 639, subds. (a)(5), (c), (d), (e).) 
          California Rules of Court, rule 3.920(c), provides that “A
discovery referee must not be appointed under Code of Civil Procedure section
639(a)(5) unless the exceptional circumstances of the particular case require
the appointment.”  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.920(c); see Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.921-3.922.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Depositions 
1.    Allyson Sims 
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Neiman employee Allyson Sims (“Sims”) for October 27, 2023.  On October 19, 2023, Neiman served an
objection to the deposition notice.  The
parties rescheduled Sims’s deposition for January 29, 2024. 
On
January 29, 2024, Sims appeared for her deposition.  However, Plaintiff’s counsel adjourned the
deposition after about two hours based on Neiman’s counsel’s allegedly
unprofessional behavior.  (Abrolat Dec. ¶ 17 & exh. 14.) 
Plaintiff has not provided a separate statement to
support her request to compel Neiman to produce Sims for the remainder of her
deposition.  (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345.)  The Court therefore denies
the motion to compel the resumption of Sims’s deposition. 
2.    Aisha McQueen 
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Neiman employee Aisha
McQueen (“McQueen”) for October 26, 2023. 
On October 19, 2023, Neiman served an objection to the deposition
notice. 
The
parties rescheduled McQueen’s deposition for February 1, 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel canceled the deposition
based on Neiman’s counsel’s allegedly unprofessional behavior during Sims’s
January 29, 2024 deposition. (Abrolat
Dec. ¶ 18 & exh. 14.) 
Because
Plaintiff’s counsel canceled McQueen’s deposition and has not presented any
evidence showing that Plaintiff attempted to reschedule it, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel McQueen’s deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
3.   
Joshua
Prager, M.D. 
The
parties scheduled Dr. Prager’s deposition for February 6, 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel canceled the deposition
based on Neiman’s counsel’s allegedly unprofessional behavior during Sims’s
January 29, 2024 deposition. (Abrolat
Dec. ¶ 18 & exh. 14.) 
Because
Plaintiff’s counsel canceled Prager’s deposition and has not presented any
evidence showing that Plaintiff has attempted to reschedule it, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Prager’s deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
4.    The “unknown male” and “unknown female” Neiman
employees 
Plaintiff
asserts that on September 20, 2023 she properly noticed the depositions of
unknown male and unknown female Neiman employees seen in video footage.  The deposition notice for the male employee
identified the employee as “Defendant’s employee who appears male, is seen on
videos standing near the counter case with white gloves, appears to be wearing
a headset and makes pointing motions down the isle of where Plaintiff was
injured.”  (Exh. 1.)  The deposition notice for the female employee
identifies the employee as “Defendant’s employee who appears female, seen on
videos passing by Plaintiff at the time of Plaintiff’s fall and/or injury.”  (Exh. 1.) 
The depositions were set for October 2 and 3, 2023. 
Neiman
did not object to these deposition notices.  The depositions evidently did not take place on October 3 and 4, 2023.  On December 20, 2023, Neiman's counsel informed Plaintiff's counsel: “The ‘unknown’ female does not have her work schedule
for January yet – as soon as she has her schedule we will provide a [deposition]
date. In the meantime, please provide me with dates that you’re available in
January so we can coordinate with her work schedule.  [¶] We are attempting to reach the ‘unknown
male’.”  (Exh. 9 to Abrolat Dec.) On January 3, 2024, Neiman's counsel told Plaintiff's counsel that "Jane Doe" was available on January 30, 2024.  Plaintiff's counsel responded that she was available for Jane Doe's deposition on February 15 or 16, 2024.  Neiman's counsel responded that Jane Doe did not have her February work schedule yet.
In Neiman's opposition to Plaintiff's initial motion to compel, Neiman asserted that the “unknown male” and “unknown female” no longer work for
Neiman.  (Lenkov dec. Dec. 13, 2023 ¶ 20.)  But Neiman has not shown that the “unknown male”
and “unknown female” were not Neiman employees when Plaintiff served the
deposition notices and on the dates of the scheduled depositions. 
Even
if Plaintiff did not give Neiman enough information to identify the “unknown”
employees in time for them to appear at the depositions scheduled for October 2
and 3, 2023, Neiman waived this objection by failing to serve objections to the
deposition notices.  Plaintiff’s counsel met
and conferred with Neiman’s counsel in an attempt to reschedule the
depositions.  (See Exh. 9 to Abrolat
Dec.)  Plaintiff was not required to
provide a separate statement to support her motion to compel the depositions of
these witnesses.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  The Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Neiman to produce the “unknown male” and “unknown
female” for deposition. 
B.   Discovery referee 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to appoint a discovery referee to attend all future depositions,
arguing that Neiman’s counsel obstructed Plaintiff’s attempts to depose Sims and
Neiman’s person most qualified, William Drew, and insulted Plaintiff’s counsel
in email correspondence.  Plaintiff
argues that “[Neiman’s counsel’s] gross unprofessional misconduct in both [Drew’s]
and Sims’ depositions and in other communications demonstrates that exceptional
circumstances are present.”  (Amended Motion
p. 13.) 
In
addition, Plaintiff asks the Court to require Neiman to pay for the discovery referee,
arguing that “it is [Neiman’s] attorney’s pattern of conduct that warrants the
need for a referee.”  (Amended Motion p.
13.) 
Neiman
does not object to the appointment of a discovery referee, but argues that
Plaintiff should bear the expense because, according to Neiman, Plaintiff’s counsel was at fault. 
The
Court has reviewed the deposition transcript excerpts attached to the amended
motion and opposition and finds that exceptional circumstances exist warranting
the special appointment of a discovery referee for the limited purpose of
monitoring depositions and making recommendations to the Court, including
sanctions recommendations.  These
circumstances consist of the inability of counsel for Plaintiff and Neiman to
avoid rancorous clashes which disrupt the deposition and obstruct the discovery
process.   Although the Court does not
apportion blame between counsel, the Court agrees that some of Neiman’s counsel
statements were inappropriate.  (See,
e.g., Drew deposition p. 90 [“I don't care what you [Plaintiff’s counsel]
tolerate, it's the most preposterous deposition where you're sitting all day
asking nonsense questions, ‘What is the policy in the back room? Do they have
cleaning supplies in the bathroom?’ I mean just move on already”]; Sims
deposition p. 13 [“I mean I can ask your questions if you want my help”]; Sims
deposition p. 15 [“It’s all nonsense . . . All fabricated by you [Plaintiff’s
counsel]”].)  But it is also unclear why Plaintiff's counsel thought it was appropriate to inform Sims that Neiman's counsel did not represent her (Sims) and to state that Neiman's counsel had a "conflict of interest."  (Sims deposition pp. 52, 54.)
The Court appoints a discovery referee under Code of Civil Procedure section 639,
subdivision (a)(5), to monitor all future depositions taken in this case and
make recommendations (including sanctions recommendations) to the Court.  The Court appoints the referee because
antagonism between counsel for Plaintiff and Neiman threatens to disrupt the
discovery process.  The deposition
excerpts attached to the parties’ filings establish exceptional circumstances
by demonstrating that counsel cannot resolve their disagreements without the
help of a discovery referee. 
Neither
party has established an inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s
fees.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd.
(d)(6)(A).)  Therefore, each party will
pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fee. 
If Plaintiff
and Neiman do not agree on the selection of the referee or referees, each party
shall submit to the Court up to three nominees for appointment as referee and
the Court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, from among
the nominees against whom there is no legal objection.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 640, subd. (b).) 
Plaintiff
and Neiman are ordered to meet and confer and submit to the Court a stipulation
concerning the maximum hourly rate the referee may charge and the maximum
number of hours for which the referee may charge.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (d)(5).)  If Plaintiff and Neiman cannot reach an
agreement, the parties may submit briefing on the issues. 
C.   Monetary sanctions 
1.    Plaintiff’s request for sanctions 
Plaintiff
requests sanctions of $3,843.00 based on 3.9 hours of attorney time to prepare
the motion at a rate of $970.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee.  Plaintiff does not, however, explain how much
time her counsel spent on each of the separate requests contained in the
motion.  
Plaintiff
is entitled to attorney fees only on her request to compel Neiman to produce
the “unknown male” and “unknown female” employees for deposition. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
The Court has denied Plaintiff’s other requests to compel depositions
and sanctions are not available on a motion to appoint a discovery referee. 
The
Court grants Plaintiff sanctions of $560.00 based on two hours of attorney time
at a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour and one filing fee for Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Neiman to produce the “unknown male” and “unknown female”
employees for deposition.  In all other
respects, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
2.    Neiman’s request for sanctions 
Neiman
requests sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process” under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (c), arguing Plaintiff’s counsel’s
conduct during Sims’s deposition was “extremely embarrassing, oppressive, and
frivolous.” 
“[Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is] ‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions
may not be imposed based solely on [the statute].  Monetary sanctions may be imposed only if
authorized by some other provision of the Discovery Act.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 [court may impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery
process “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method or other provision of this title”]; City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 498-504.) 
Neiman
has not identified a provision of the Discovery Act that authorizes sanctions here.  The Court denies Neiman’s requests for
monetary sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion to compel Defendant Neiman Marcus
Group, LLC to produce Allyson Sims for
the resumption of her deposition. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion to compel Defendant Neiman Marcus
Group, LLC to produce Aisha McQueen for her
deposition. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion to compel Defendant Neiman Marcus
Group, LLC to produce Joshua Prager, M.D. for his deposition. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion to compel Defendant Neiman Marcus
Group, LLC to produce “unknown male employee” for his deposition.  The Court orders Defendant Neiman Marcus
Group, LLC to produce “unknown male employee” for his deposition within 30 days
of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion to compel
Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC to produce “unknown female employee” for her
deposition.  The Court orders Defendant
Neiman Marcus Group, LLC to produce “unknown female employee” for her
deposition within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s request for sanctions and orders
Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC and its counsel to pay Plaintiff Ebony Tay
$560.00 within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The Court
ORDERS Plaintiff Ebony Tay to pay the Court $300.00, consisting of five
additional filing fees, within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC’s request for sanctions. 
The
Court finds exceptional circumstances and GRANTS Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion
to appoint a discovery referee to monitor
all future depositions taken in this case and make recommendations (including
sanctions recommendations) to the Court. 
Each party will pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fee. 
If
Plaintiff Ebony Tay and Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC do not agree on the
selection of the referee or referees, each party shall submit to the Court up
to three nominees for appointment as referee within 30 days of the hearing on
this motion. 
Plaintiff
and Neiman are ordered to meet and confer and submit to the Court a stipulation
concerning the maximum hourly rate the referee may charge and the maximum
number of hours for which the referee may charge.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd.
(d)(5).)  If Plaintiff and Neiman cannot
reach an agreement, the parties may submit briefing on the issues.  The parties will file a stipulation or
briefing within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court sets an Order to Show Cause re: Appointment of a Discovery Referee on May
13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling within five days.