 Case Number:  22STCV11950    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 8, 2022, Plaintiff Kimberley Marie Elkerton (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Brandon Lamahr Frison (“Frison”), California Coach
Orange, Inc. (“Coach”), and Does 1-100 for negligence, intentional infliction
of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligence
per se, assault and battery, and negligent hiring, retention and supervision. 
On
January 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants
Bahaeddin Fawzi Hassan (“Bahaeddin Hassan”) as Doe 1 and Southside Towing
(“Southside”) as Doe 2. 
On
June 14, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Hadley
Towing Equipment, Inc. (“Hadley”) as Doe 3. 
On
July 5, 2023, Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and Southside filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Frison, Mark Fawzi Hassan (“Mark
Hassan”), Hadley, All American Towing Inland Empire, LLC (“All American”), Park
Avenue Realty Investments, Inc. (“Park Avenue”), and Roes 1-10 for total
equitable indemnity, contribution, equitable apportionment, and declaratory
relief. 
On
July 25, 2023, Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and Southside filed an amended answer
to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
September 6, 2023, the clerk entered Hadley’s default on the cross-complaint. 
On
September 11, 2023, Frison and All American filed (1) an answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint, (2) an answer to the cross-complaint of Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and
Southside, and (3) a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Laila Aaen
(“Aaen”) and Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, apportionment of comparative
negligence, and declaration relief. 
On
September 13, 2023, the clerk entered the defaults of Mark Hassan and Park
Avenue. 
On
February 27, 2024, Frison and All American (“Moving Parties”) filed a motion to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition and for sanctions, to be heard on April 8, 2024.
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
On
March 19, 2024, the Court sustained Aaen’s demurrer to the cross-complaint
filed by Frison and All American with 30 days leave to amend. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 8, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Parties ask the Court to compel Plaintiff to appear for a deposition and to impose
sanctions on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion to compel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. 
*
* *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
Moving
Parties assert that, on February 8, 2024, they noticed Plaintiff’s deposition
for February 28, 2024.  (Dorenfeld Dec. ¶¶
2-3.)  Moving Parties have not provided a
copy of the deposition notice. 
Moving
Parties also state that, on February 9, 2024, Plaintiff served an objection to
the deposition notice. (Dorenfeld Dec. ¶ 4.)  Moving Parties have not provided a copy of the
objection. 
On
February 21, 2024, Moving Parties’ counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email
stating:  “I am contacting you to request
dates for deposition of your clients. Please provide dates by 12:00 p.m. on
2-22-24.  If dates are not given, we will
be filing a Motion to Compel.”  (Dorenfeld Dec. ¶ 5 & exh. A.)  According to Moving Parties, Plaintiff’s
counsel did not provide dates by February 27, 2024, when Moving Parties filed
this motion. 
In response, Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that “no deposition notice was even provided herein.”  (Partiyeli Dec. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff also asserts that her counsel “did,
in fact, suggest alternative dates for the taking of the depositions, but such
requests were rejected or ignored by Defendants’ attorney.”  (Opposition p. 3.)  Plaintiff has provided no evidence to support
this assertion. 
The
Court denies the motion.  Even assuming
that Moving Parties served a deposition notice on February 8, 2024, Moving
Parties admit that Plaintiff served an objection on February 9, 2024.  Moving Parties do not challenge the validity
of the objection.  Therefore, Moving
Parties have not shown that Plaintiff failed to attend a deposition without
first serving a valid objection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  In
addition, Moving Parties have provided no legal authority authorizing an order to compel a party’s deposition based on a six-day delay in responding to an
email requesting alternative deposition dates. 
The
Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendant Brandon Lamahr Frison and Cross-Defendant
All American Towing Inland Empire, LLC to compel the deposition of Plaintiff
Kimberley Marie Elkerton and for sanctions. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Kimberley Marie
Elkerton’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.