 Case Number:  22STCV12757    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Maria Del Carmen Ramos (“Ramos”) and Teodoro Ramos
Sanchez (“Sanchez”) filed this action against Defendants AA Gonzalez Inc.
(“Gonzalez”), Jose Almanzar Orozco (“Almanzar”), and Does 1-100 for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
July 31, 2023, Gonzalez filed an answer. On January 25, 2024, Almanzar filed an
answer. 
On
January 30, 2024, Sanchez filed a motion to quash deposition subpoena or, in
the alternative, to modify deposition subpoena, and request for monetary
sanctions, to be heard on April 8, 2024.  On March 27, 2024, Gonzalez and Almanzar (“Defendants”)
filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 17, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Sanchez
asks the Court to quash or modify a subpoena that Gonzalez served on Antelope
Valley Union High School District (“District”). Sanchez also requests sanctions. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: 
“(g) Any consumer whose personal records are sought by
a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in which this
subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for production, bring a
motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice
of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and deposition
officer at least five days prior to production. The failure to provide notice
to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the motion to quash or modify
the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the deposition officer as an
affirmative defense in any action for liability for improper release of
records. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
As a
general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would be admissible evidence at
trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
When
a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to
privacy, limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and
financial matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the
litigant’s right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to
maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is
discoverable. (Ibid.) For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial,
or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on February 6, 2020, at Van Nuys Boulevard and Glenoaks Boulevard
in Los Angeles, Defendants negligently drove, operated, owned, entrusted, and/or
maintained a motor vehicle, causing Defendant’s vehicle to strike Sanchez’s motor
vehicle, injuring Sanchez. 
B.   Subpoena 
On
January 3, 2024, Gonzalez served a subpoena for appearance and production of
business records on District.  The
subpoena requests: 
“Any and all documents and records pertaining to the
scholastic and academic ability of Teodoro Ramos Sanchez, born on January 14,
2005, with SS# UNK, including, but not limited to, all transcripts, report
cards, disciplinary records, absentee records, teacher comments, test results
and student health medical records, from 08/01/2019 to present. Include
athletic records and include records from Lancaster High School 44701 N. 32nd
Street West Lancaster, CA 93536.” 
C.   Privacy and overbreadth 
 “
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’  [Citation.] 
Therefore, . . . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy
interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial.  Thus courts must balance the right of civil
litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons
subject to discovery”].) 
 “[A]lthough
in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have
unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient
privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they
have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to
information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not
automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 849 (Britt) [trial court erred by placing “absolutely no
limit on defendant's efforts to obtain wholesale disclosure of each plaintiff's
lifetime medical history”].) “[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all
privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,] mental or emotional injury’;
while they may not withhold information which relates to any physical or mental
condition which they have put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are
entitled to retain the confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic
treatment they may have undergone in the past.” 
(Id. at p. 864, fn. omitted.)  
 “Even
when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues
of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be
a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be
narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the
least intrusive manner. [Citation.]”  (Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) 
D.   Analysis 
 Sanchez argues the subpoena is improper because it is not limited to the body parts
that were injured as a result of the accident and, as a result, the subpoena
seeks information that is irrelevant and not likely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and invades Sanchez’s privacy rights.  According to Sanchez, “[t]he subpoenas’
broadly worded requests for any and all medical records/films/bills etc.
violate Plaintiff’s privacy by demanding medical records not restricted in
terms of body parts.”  (Separate Statement
p. 4; see Points and Authorities pp. 3-4.) 
 Although Sanchez’s moving papers do not state which body parts Sanchez contends were
injured in the accident, Defendants assert that Sanchez is claiming the
accident resulted in injuries to his neck, back, and shoulder.  Defendants argue the Court should not limit
the subpoena to these body parts because “[t]he absence of any mention of neck,
back, or shoulder complaints to the school which required a physical is highly
relevant to the issues in this case.” 
(Opposition p. 6.)  Yet if the
Court limits the subpoena to these body parts, the District's production of
responsive documents – or inability to produce responsive documents – will provide
the information Defendants are seeking: whether Sanchez reported problems
with his neck, back, or shoulder to his school before the accident. 
 The
Court has weighed the need for this discovery against Sanchez’s privacy
rights and concludes that the subpoena is overbroad to the extent that it
requires production of medical records that do not involve Sanchez’s neck,
back, or shoulders.  The Court therefore
modifies the subpoena by restricting the request for medical records to medical
records that involve Sanchez’s neck, back, or shoulders. 
 Sanchez asks the Court to award $5,440.00 in sanctions against Defendants and their
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a).  The statute authorizes sanctions only where “the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).)  Sanchez argues the subpoena’s
request for medical records was oppressive. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a) [“unreasonable or oppressive
demands . . . includ[e] unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person”].) 
 While
the Court has concluded that the subpoena’s request for medical records is
overbroad, the request does not support a sanctions award.  At most, the parties had an honest
disagreement about the appropriate scope of the request for medical records.  Sanchez has not shown bad faith, lack of
substantial justification, or oppression. 
The Court denies Sanchez’s request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Teodoro
Ramos Sanchez’s motion to quash or modify the deposition subpoena issued by
Defendant AA Gonzalez Inc. to Antelope
Valley Union High School District.  The
Court modifies the subpoena’s request for medical records to medical records
that involve Plaintiff Teodoro Ramos Sanchez’s neck, back, or shoulders.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.