On August 5, 2021, Xu Hai, Fangyu Huang, and Kangying, LLC (“Kangying”) filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) in consolidated case no. 20STCV21231 against Defendants Michel Amar, Alec Amar, Bit.Management, LLC, NYAM, LLC, and Multiple Application Technology, LLC for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of the implied covenant of food faith and fair dealing, (4) fraudulent transfer, and (5) an accounting.  The allegations of the SAC are as follows.  The parties entered into an agreement to create IMT LLC, a bitcoin mining business.   Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by “(1) ousting [Plaintiffs] from the business; (2) refusing them access to the financial records of the company; (3) taking the proceeds of the business from the company and keeping them for themselves; and (4) moving the mining operations away from IMT without notice or compensation to KANGYING, HUANG, and HAI, and otherwise making material and intentional misrepresentations in connection therewith.”  (SAC ¶ 51.)  “[D]efendants ALEC, MICHEL, and NYAM have transferred some or all of the assets, equipment, personal property, accounts, revenues, and/or profits of IMT to MAT for the purposes of making those assets, equipment, personal property, accounts, revenues, and/or profits unavailable to KANGYING, HUANG, and HAI, and in order to cause IMT to appear insolvent.”  (SAC ¶ 66.) On March 28, 2022, Hai and Huang dismissed their claims in the SAC, leaving only Kangying as a Plaintiff.  Defendants Michel Amar, Alec Amar, Bit.Management, LLC, NYAM, LLC and Multiple Application Technology, LL—for the second time—seek summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action in the SAC.  Previously, the Court ruled as follows:Defendants contend that all claims fail because Kangying is bound by a termination agreement for IMT LLC that precluded future claims against the Defendants: “there will be no future claims or assessments against Michel Amar, Alec Amar, Bit or any Amar company by Kevin Yap, Kangying or IMT and previous agreements between the parties are hereby deemed void.”  Defendants contend the aforementioned provision was provided in exchange for Defendants tendering $1 million in assets to Kangying.  They contend it is undisputed that these assets were in fact transferred to Kangying. Kangying disputes that it was bound by the termination agreement.  Hai has filed a declaration indicating that he is the controlling member of Kangying, such that it was invalid when Kevin Yap, a minority member, signed the termination agreement on behalf of Kangying.  In Reply, Defendants argue that the termination agreement could be signed by Yap because Hai drafted the parties’ initial agreement as to IMT and therein he stated the following as to the directors of IMT and their authority: “IMT will form a 4 member Board of Directors (BOD); the Directors are Michel and Alec from BIT and Jerry and Kevin from K/J. All major decisions must have an approval of at least 3 Board Members. . . . Governance matters to be included in the partnership agreement will be determined by the BOD.”  Defendants contend that since Alec, Michel, and Yap (three of the four directors) agreed to the termination agreement, that is sufficient to make that agreement binding on all parties, including Kangying. . . .Based on its plain language, the Court believes that the initial operating agreement allowed 3 of 4 directors to bind IMT; these directors could decide whether IMT should be dissolved and cease business.  However, it is not apparent that this agreement allowed 3 directors of IMT to bind Kangying, an apparent member of IMT, to certain matters, such as accepting payment in exchange for relinquishing its claims against the Defendants.  That would seem to require consent from Kangying, not IMT.  There is a triable issue as to whether Kangying consented because Hai has presented evidence he was the only member of Kangying that could bind Kangying.  There is no requirement that Hai provide documents corroborating this fact in order to defeat a summary judgment motion.  Defendants could have presented documents to the contrary in their Reply, but did not do so.  Ultimately, Defendants’ argument seems to be that the operating agreement allowed 3 directors of IMT to bind all parties as to any matters relating to IMT, but that is not what the agreement states.  Because there are triable issues, the Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is denied.   Defendants now primarily contend that “on April 21, 2023, Defendants resumed Hai’s deposition, and Hai repeatedly contradicted the declaration upon which the Court relied. (UMF 1- 14.) Hai admitted that Yap had been endowed with broad – indeed, limitless – authority to conduct business on behalf of Kangying, and was in fact the only member of Kangying responsible for dealing with Defendants at the time that the Termination Agreement was being negotiated and executed. (UMF 5-7, 9-11, 13-14.) The newly discovered facts contained in Hai’s testimony demonstrate that Hai’s previous (counsel-drafted) declaration was perjurious, and constitute newly discovered facts which support the issues re-asserted in the instant motion. Accordingly, this motion is procedurally appropriate under CCP § 437c(f)(2).” The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Before addressing the validity of the termination agreement, Defendants first argue that all claims fail because they are premised on IMT’s operating agreement, but, per the operating agreement, Kangying was never a member of IMT in the first place. Plaintiff argues that there are multiple ambiguities in both the IMT operating agreement and the termination agreement that should preclude summary judgment. The Court agrees with Defendants.  The IMT operating agreement does not define Kangying as a member of IMT.  To the contrary, the operating agreement states that IMT was a partnership between BIT, NYAM, and K/J, where K/J refers to Kevin Yap and Jerry Xu.  Further, the termination agreement is signed by Kevin Yap, as member of IMT.  Based on the operating agreement, it’s not possible for both Kevin Yap and Kangying to be members of IMT—rather, the members were K/J, which includes Kevin.   Plaintiff argues that if it were not a member of IMT then there would not have been a need for a termination agreement referring to Kangying.  The termination agreement, however, generally refers to ceasing mining business operations, and, per the operating agreement, Kangying was involved in that business; therefore, it necessarily makes sense that Kangying would be referenced in an agreement winding such business up.  Indeed, the termination agreement also references a payment of $350,000 to “Reunion”, which is not a member or partner of IMT.  That is, the existence of the termination agreement does not itself establish Kangying as a member of IMT.  If that’s what the parties wanted, they should have clearly laid that out in the operating agreement.   Plaintiff also points to the termination agreement’s statement that IMT was formed by Kangying and NYAM.  But, “forming”—whatever that means in this context—is not the equivalent of labeling Kangying as a member.  And, in any case, the termination agreement cannot create rights that did not exist in the first place via the operating agreement. Because Kangying was not a member of IMT and all of its claims rely on being a member of IMT through the operating agreement, the Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.  The Request for Judicial Notice is granted. A proposed judgment is to be submitted within 10 days.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 