 Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTION


Motion for Reconsideration




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, Individually and as Trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler individually and as Trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  a Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually
  and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On October 2, 2024, the Court
granted Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for the Eisler
Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee for the Eisler
Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as trustee for the
Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West End Properties; Robert
Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells’ (“Defendants”) Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff
Yazmin Ortiz’s (“Plaintiff”) action for failure to bring the case to trial
within five years.  (See Minute Order,
Oct. 2, 2024.)  
 
            The Court entered an Order
dismissing the case on October 3, 2024, and on October 8, 2024, the Court
entered judgment in favor of Defendants. 
 
Plaintiff now moves for reconsideration of the Courts order granting
Defendants’ motion to dismiss. 
Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.  The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  Where
the statutory requirements are met, reconsideration should be granted; upon
reconsideration, however, the court may simply reaffirm its original
order.  (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.)  
 
The moving party on a motion for
reconsideration “must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time[.]” (Mink
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342, internal quotations
& citations omitted; see New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 221 [on a motion for reconsideration, a party must present
new or different facts, circumstances, or law, which the moving party “could
not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced” in connection with
the original hearing].)
 
JURISDICTION
 
“After entry of judgment, a trial court has no further power to rule
on a motion for reconsideration.”  (Ramon
v. Aerospace Corp. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1236.)  “Once judgment has been entered […] the court
may not reconsider it and loses its unrestricted power to change the judgment.
It may correct judicial error only through certain limited procedures such as
motions for new trial and motions to vacate the judgment.”  (Ibid.)
 
This is true even where the motion for reconsideration was filed
before judgment, but judgment was entered prior to the scheduled hearing.  (See Safeco Insurance Company of Illinois
v. Architectural Facades Unlimited, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1477.)
 
Thus, the law is clear that entry of the judgment divests the Court of
jurisdiction to hear Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration.  Once judgment has been entered, the parties
are limited to pursuing post-judgment remedies.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is denied because the Court no longer has jurisdiction to rule
on it.
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.    
 
 
DATED:  November 21, 2024                       ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       November 21, 2024
CASE NUMBER        SC125247
MOTION                    Motion to Set Aside/Vacate
Dismissal
MOVING PARTY      Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz
OPPOSING PARTIES            Defendants Rudy Eisler, Individually
and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler individually
and as Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler,
individually and as a Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy
Eisler, individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler
Investments; West End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin
Wells
 
MOTION
 
            On October 2, 2024, the Court
granted Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for the Eisler
Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee for the Eisler
Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as trustee for the
Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West End Properties; Robert
Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells’ (“Defendants”) Motion to Dismiss
Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz’s (“Plaintiff”) action for failure to bring the case to
trial within five years.  (See Minute
Order, Oct. 2, 2024.)  
 
            The Court entered an Order
dismissing the case on October 3, 2024 and on October 8, 2024, the Court
entered judgment in favor of Defendants. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to set aside/vacate the dismissal.  Defendants oppose the motion and  Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
                         
I.         
DISCRETIONARY AND MANDATORY RELIEF
 
Code of Civil procedure section 473 “includes a discretionary
provision, which applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies
as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25
(hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473
is a remedial statute to be “applied liberally” in favor of relief if the
opposing party will not suffer prejudice. 
Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief from default.  Unless inexcusable
neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.”  (Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24
[cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
A.        DISCRETIONARY RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
B.   
MANDATORY
RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  “In considering whether the trial court
properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            Plaintiff does not provide an
affidavit demonstrating her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.  Plaintiff’s introduction
outlines arguments that the judgment is void because (1) the Court dismissed
Plaintiff’s case in retaliation for Plaintiff’s filing of two statements of
disqualification; (2) the dismissal was entered due to the Court’s bias against
Plaintiff; (3) Plaintiff has gathered new evidence to support her claims; and
(4) opposing counsel lied and committed fraud upon the Court to obtain the
dismissal, and (5) Plaintiff will be prejudiced if the dismissal is not
vacated.
 
            However, the body of the brief
contains no arguments or evidence about Plaintiff’s first two unfounded
accusations that the Court acted out of retaliation or bias.  Nor does Plaintiff provide any new evidence
warranting relief.  
 
            Plaintiff’s declaration merely
indicates that the Court told Defendants’ counsel at the Final Status
Conference “that’s on you” as to whether they wanted to bring a Motion to
Dismiss for failure to bring the case to trial within five years, after which
Defendants’ counsel did file such a motion to dismiss.  (Ortiz Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Contrary to Plaintiff’s characterization, the
Court does not find that this comment constitutes legal advice or a “wink-wink
tip” to Defendants’ counsel, but rather a general disclaimer that whether a
party wishes to bring a motion is up to that party to decide.
 
As for Plaintiff’s fourth argument that opposing counsel lied and
committed fraud upon the Court, Plaintiff argues only that Defendants’ counsel erroneously
told the Court that the Court of Appeal had dismissed Plaintiff’s writ of
mandate due to Plaintiff’s status as a vexatious litigant, whereas the Court of
Appeal actually rejected Plaintiff’s filing because it did not contain a
pre-filing order form, bookmarks, or a proof of service.  
 
Plaintiff’s status as a vexatious litigant means that Plaintiff must
satisfy certain prefiling requirements before Plaintiff is able to file new
cases, including writs with the Court of Appeal.  Thus, the Court does not find Defendants’
counsel’s representation that Plaintiff’s writ was dismissed for failure to
comply with the pre-filing requirements for a vexatious litigant was substantially
untrue.  But even if Defendants’ counsel
were mistaken about the reason Plaintiff’s writ was dismissed, that mistake is
immaterial to the Court’s decision to dismiss Plaintiff’s action for failure to
bring it to trial within five years.
 
Plaintiff also argues generally that the dismissal was improper
because Defendants’ counsel had requested a continuance.  The Court already addressed this argument in
connection with its order granting Defendant’s motion to dismiss for failure to
bring the case to trial within five years. 
Specifically, the Court reviewed the December 6, 2022 Minute Order, and
found no reference to a 5-year deadline, a trial continuance, or any other
reason why Defendants would be estopped from asserting the 5-year deadline.  
 
Plaintiff now asserts in her declaration that Defendant’s counsel
requested a continuance to “do a mediation” at the March 26, 2024 hearing.  The Court similarly has no record of
Defendants’ counsel making or the Court granting any such request for a
continuance at the March 26, 2024 hearing, nor has Plaintiff provided any such
record.  Rather, in connection with
Plaintiff’s demurrer to Defendants’ first amended answer, the Court found that
Plaintiff failed to adequately meet and confer prior to filing the demurrer,
and continued the hearing on the demurrer to permit the parties to meaningfully
meet and confer first.  
 
Plaintiff also argues that the complaint should have been dismissed
without prejudice, and that the Court exceeded its jurisdictional authority in
dismissing the case with prejudice.  In
support, Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 581, which provides
that the Court may dismiss an action without prejudice pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 583.110.)
 
Section 581 clearly refers to discretionary dismissals
for delay in prosecution. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (b) [“An action may
be dismissed …”] [emphasis added].)  
 
By contrast, when a Plaintiff fails to bring an action to trial within
five years, dismissal is “mandatory” and is “not subject to extension, excuse,
or exception except as expressly provided by statute.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.360.)  
 
If the Court were able to dismiss the action pursuant to Section
583.360’s mandate without prejudice and allow Plaintiff to simply revive it,
that would effectively be a backdoor “extension” or “exception,” which the
statute expressly forbids, and which would render the five-year rule meaningless.  (Hassan v. Mercy American River Hospital
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 709, 716 [standard rules of statutory construction prohibit
any interpretation “that renders part of the statute meaningless or
inoperative”].)
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion to set aside or vacate the dismissal of her action
for failure to bring it to trial within five years.  
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
DATED:
November 21, 2024                                                 ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court