 Case Number:  23SMCV05437    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05437




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Residents
  Medical Group, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  and Cross-Defendant Global Asset Recovery Management, LLC  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities; Declaration of Diana Spielberger
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Appendix
     of Exhibits

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
Declaration of Gilbert Luna
Declaration of Tina Abdolhosseini
Compendium of Evidence
Response to Separate Statement of
     Undisputed Material Facts


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment 
Objections
     to Evidence

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Global Asset
Recovery Management LLC (“Plaintiff”) brought suit, seeking $40,667 against
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Residents Medical Group, Inc. dba Residents
Medical (“Defendant”) stemming from two causes of action for (1) breach of
contract and (2) common counts.  
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s
complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Defendant replies.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of the following:
 
Exhibit 1: Complaint filed on June 21, 2021 in
Orange County Superior Court, case no. 30-2021-01207901-CU-BC_CJC, captioned RDI
Financial LLC v. Residents Medical Group Incorporated
 
Exhibit 2: Request for Dismissal filed on October
1, 2021, in RDI Financial LLC v. Residents Medical Group Incorporated.
 
Exhibit 3: Substitution of Attorney form filed on
October 8, 2021, in RDI Financial LLC v. Residents Medical Group
Incorporated.
 
Exhibit 4: Complaint filed on February 1, 2023 in
Orange County Superior Court, case no. 30-2023-013105554-CU-BC-CJC, captioned Global
Assistance Recovery Management LLC v. Residents Medical Group, Inc. dba
Residents Medical Group.
 
Exhibit 5: Tentative Ruling filed in Global
Assistance Recovery Management LLC v. Residents Medical Group, Inc. dba
Residents Medical Group
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the requested exhibits are part of the court records for the Orange
County cases captioned RDI Financial LLC v. Residents Medical Group
Incorporated and Global Assistance Recovery Management LLC v. Residents
Medical Group, Inc. dba Residents Medical Group, the Court may take
judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the requested documents as court records,
but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Defendant’s evidentiary objections to
the Luna declaration:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Sustained
3.     Overruled
 
The Court rules as follows
with respect to Defendant’s evidentiary objections to the Abdolhosseini
Declaration:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION

 
1.     DEFENDANT’S EVIDENCE
 
The contract attached to the
Complaint is between a company called Interdependence and Defendant Residents
Medical.  (See Ex. A to Complaint.)  Plaintiff brought suit to recover $40,667 as
an assignee of Interdependence’s rights, title, and equity under the contract.  (Complaint at ¶ BC-1; BC-4.)  
 
Defendant contends that in
response to discovery requesting evidence of the assignment of rights under the
contract from Interdependence to Plaintiff, Plaintiff has produced only an
assignment from Interdependence to a company called RDI Financial, LLC (“RDI”),
which is a non-party to this litigation. 
(UMF No. 4.)  Further, Defendant
has responded to Special Interrogatory numbers 1 and 2 that it has no further
facts supporting its contention that Interdependence’s rights under the
contract were assigned to Plaintiff, other than the assignment from
Interdependence to RDI it produced.  (UMF
No. 5.)
 
Thus, Defendant has met its
initial burdens of production and persuasion that Plaintiff will be unable to
prove that it has standing to enforce rights under the contract as an assignee
of Interdependence.  
 
2.     PLAINTIFF’S EVIDENCE
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff
indicates that there are two additional assignments from Interdependence to
Plaintiff, which Plaintiff inadvertently neglected to produce, but which
Plaintiff has now produced, establishing Plaintiff’s standing as
Interdependence’s assignee.  (Luna Decl.
¶¶ 3-7 and Exs. A-B; Abdolhosseini Decl. ¶¶ 3-7 and Ex. D.)
 
Defendant points out in reply that the assignment of the subject $40,667 debt from Interdependence to RDI is
dated June 21, 2021 (Ex. 8), whereas the purported assignments of the same debt
from Interdependence to Plaintiff are dated February 1, 2023 and November 17,
2023 (Exs. A-B to Luna Decl.)  
 
Defendant contends this is
problematic because Interdependence no longer had the ability to assign the
debt to Plaintiff it had already assigned two years prior to RDI.  Defendant also casts doubt on the credibility
of the purported assignments, by virtue of the fact that the second,
“confirmation” assignment is dated the same day Plaintiff filed the complaint
in this action, and Plaintiff waited nearly three months after the MSJ was
filed – until the eve of the opposition deadline – to supplement its production
and interrogatory response.
 
With regard to Defendant’s
credibility arguments, the Court cannot weigh the evidence or make credibility
determinations on a motion for summary judgment. (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th. at p. 840  [“the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility”].)
 
With regard to Defendant’s argument about the successive assignments
of the same rights, the June 21, 2021 assignment to RDI provides:
 
Interdependence
PR, whose address 1655 South Blue Island #355, Chicago, IL 60608 hereby sells,
assigns, transfers, and set over to assignee of the record RDI Financial LLC
whose address is 17595 Harvard Ave Ste C688 Irvine, CA 92614 all rights, title,
and interest in the contract bay between Interdependence PR and Residents Medical Group, Inc. whose last knows [sic] address is 11766 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 405, Los
Angeles, CA 90025 for the sum total
of $40,667.00 RDI Financial LLC, who may take lawful means
to enforce said contract.
 
            Similarly,
the February 1, 2023 and November 17, 2023 assignments to Plaintiff provide:
 
Interdependence
PR, whose address 1655 South Blue Island #355, Chicago, IL 60608 hereby sells,
assigns, transfers, and set over to assignee of the record Global Asset
Recovery Management, whose address is 17595 Harvard Ave Ste C-688 Irvine, CA
92614 all rights, title, and interest in the contract bay between
Interdependence PR and Residents
Medical Group, Inc. whose last
knows [sic] address is 11766
Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 405, Los Angeles, CA 90025 for the sum total of $40,667.00 Global Asset Recovery Management, who may
take lawful means to enforce said contract.
 
While the second and third
assignments to Plaintiff may appear at first glance to be invalid by virtue of
the first assignment to RDI, the Court notes that both RDI and Plaintiff appear
to have the same address and suite number. 
Further, the Court notes that it was Plaintiff who produced both the
assignment to RDI and the two subsequent assignments to Plaintiff.  This is sufficient to create a factual
dispute as to what, if any, relationship there is between Plaintiff and RDI
that may give Plaintiff the right to enforce contractual rights assigned to RDI
and/or which assignment(s) are valid.  As
discussed above, the Court cannot weigh this competing evidence at the summary
judgment stage.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, having found
Plaintiff created a disputed issue of material fact as to the assignment of
Interdependence’s contractual rights, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
DATED:  November 21, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 