  Case Number:  21STCV06450    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



OSCAR VALENCIA, et
  al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
436 DAISY PROPERTY LLC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV06450
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PETITIONS TO CONFIRM MINOR’S COMPROMISE
 
Date: November 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Reynaldo Ventura (“Reynaldo”),
Erika Ventura (“Erika”), Marie Urieta (“Urieta”), Lorena Cortez (“Cortez”), Jennifer
Sandoval (“Sandoval”), Ivon Ibarra (“Ibarra”), Dominga Santiago (“Santiago”)
and Belen de la Rosa (“de la Rosa”) (collectively, “Petitioners”)[1]
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers. 
No opposition has been filed.  Any
opposition was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days
prior to the hearing.  (Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”), § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
Petitioners,
individually and as guardians ad litem for minor claimants (collectively,
“Minor Claimants”), initiated this action which arises out of a landlord/tenant
relationship.  The operative First Amended
Complaint alleges: (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability; (2) breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) negligence; and (4) violation of Civil
Code section 1942.4.
 
Plaintiffs
and Minor Claimants have agreed to settle their claims against Defendant Estate
of George Efrain Gutierrez.  Petitioners
filed petitions to approve the compromise of disputed claim on behalf of Minor
Claimants (the “Petitions” or “Petition”). 
Reynaldo filed a Petition on behalf of Reyna Ventura.  Erika filed a Petition on behalf of Giselle
Ventura.  Urieta filed a Petition on
behalf of Angel Zackary Funez.  Cortez
filed a Petition on behalf of Jeancarlos Valencia.  Sandoval filed a Petition on behalf of Jose
Daniel Cabral.  Ibarra filed Petitions on
behalf of (1) Alexander Torres and (2) Iker Morales.  Santiago filed a Petition on behalf of
Alexandra de la Rosa.  De la Rosa filed a
Petition on behalf of Ricardo Gutierrez.
 
DISCUSSION
            If an action is pending and
settlement is effected prior to trial, the minor’s compromise must be approved
by the court.  (CCP § 372.)  A petition to approve a minor’s compromise is
governed by California Rules of Court (“CRC”), rules 7.950, et seq. and Probate
Code sections 3500 and 3600 et seq.  The
trial court is authorized to approve and allow payment of reasonable expenses, costs,
and attorney’s fees in an action concerning the compromise of a minor’s claim.  (Prob. Code § 3601, subd. (a); Curtis v.
Estate of Fagan (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 270, 277-79; see also CCP § 373.5.)
 
            Plaintiffs have agreed to settle their claims against Defendant for $330,750.  The proposed settlement agreement (the
“Settlement”) allocates $1,000.03 for each Minor Claimant.  The Petitions request approval to deduct $243.27
from each Minor Claimant’s portion of the Settlement to cover attorney’s fees
and $26.96 in costs.  The Petitions also
request that Minor Claimants’ respective proceeds from the Settlement be
deposited in insured accounts specified in Attachment 18b(2), subject to
withdrawal only upon authorization of the Court.
 
Attorney’s
Fees
Unless the court has approved the fee
agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.  (CRC, r. 7.955(a).)  The court must give consideration to the
terms of the agreement between the attorney and minor’s representative and must
evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at the
time the agreement was made.  (CRC, r.
7.955(a)(2).)  CRC, rule 7.955(b)(2) sets
out nonexclusive factors the court may consider in determining the
reasonableness of attorney’s fees in connection with a petition for minor’s
compromise.  Under CRC, rule 7.955(c),
the petition must include a declaration by the attorney addressing the factors
set forth in CRC, rule 7.955(b)(2) that are applicable to the matter that is
before the Court.
 
Minor Claimants’ counsel declares
that this action involves 49 Plaintiffs, consisting of 10 minors and 39
adults.  (Declaration of Christofer
Chapman (“Chapman Decl.”) ¶ 2.)  The
adult Plaintiffs have received a larger portion of the Settlement than Minor
Claimants in order to compensate them for bodily injury, emotional distress,
property damage, out-of-pocket costs, rent reimbursement and other lease
damages not suffered by Minor Claimants. 
(Chapman Decl. ¶¶ 3, 8.)  Minor
Claimants suffered allergies and insect bites (Id, ¶ 7.)  Counsel accepted this case on a contingency
basis and the fee agreement executed with Plaintiffs indicates that counsel is
entitled to collect 40 percent of the net recovery of adult Plaintiffs and 25
percent of the net recovery of Minor Claimants in attorney’s fees.  (Id., ¶ 9.)  Counsel estimates that the average amount of
time expended in the prosecution of this case on behalf of Minor Claimants is
approximately 30 hours each.  (Chapman
Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
RULING
            The
Court finds that the Settlement is fair and reasonable and the requested amount
in attorney’s fees is fair and reasonable. 
For these reasons and because they are unopposed, the Court therefore
provisionally GRANTS the Petitions, conditioned on Petitioners appearing
(either remotely or in person) at the hearing. 
(Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  The Court sets a Non-Appearance case review
for January 15, 2025 at 10 am regarding proof of the deposit of the net
settlement funds in insured accounts.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






