  Case Number:  21STCV46348    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant City of Burbank’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication.
 
The unopposed motion is granted.
Additionally, Defendant’s unopposed request for
judicial notice, filed 9/27/23, is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
In this case, Plaintiff SAMI AMMARI seeks declaratory
and injunctive relief against the CITY OF BURBANK (“Defendant”) based on
Defendant’s enforcement of Burbank Municipal Code § 6-1-1010 to impound motor
vehicles owned by Plaintiff. The causes of action in the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) are: (1) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Re Vehicle Code
Preemption of City Ordinance; (2) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Re
Violation of California Due Process Clauses; (3) Declaratory and Injunctive
Relief Re California State Privileges or Immunities; and (4) Declaratory and
Injunctive Relief, and for Damages for Violations of Plaintiff’s Civil Rights.
On 9/27/23, Defendant moved for summary judgment, or,
in the alternative, summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s FAC. On 11/27/23, the
parties filed a stipulation leading to a continuance of the motion for summary
judgment to 2/15/24. Plaintiff did not file an opposition. 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR A CONTINUANCE IS
DENIED
On 2/8/24, after the deadline had passed for filing an
opposition brief, Plaintiff filed a request to continue the hearing on
Defendant’s motion pending a motion to amend Plaintiff’s complaint. Plaintiff
seeks such relief because his counsel “came across” a case on the afternoon the
opposition was due that, counsel claims, provides legal support to allege that Burbank
Municipal Code § 6-1-1010 violates Plaintiff’s Fourth Amendment rights.
(Wallace Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Counsel contends that Plaintiff must amend the FAC to
raise the newly discovered Fourth Amendment issue prior to a hearing on
Defendant’s motion. 
Plaintiff’s request is denied, for the following
reasons. First, Plaintiff has no justifiable explanation for waiting a week
after Plaintiff’s opposition was due to seek a continuance. Plaintiff’s counsel
acknowledges he found the case regarding the Fourth Amendment issue on 2/1/24,
the deadline for filing the opposition. (Wallace Decl., ¶ 6.) Given the
parties’ stipulation to extend the hearing, Plaintiff had more than four months
to research, write, and file the opposition. Plaintiff provides no explanation
for why counsel waited until the afternoon of the deadline to conduct research
related to opposing the summary judgment motion. Plaintiff’s counsel states
that after he found the case on 2/1/24, rather than filing an opposition or a
request to continue, he reached out to opposing counsel, considered filing an
ex parte application, and then finally, a week later, filed the request for a
continuance. (Id., ¶¶ 8-9.) Plaintiff provides no explanation for why
any request for a continuance could not have been filed the day the opposition
was due on 2/1/24. 
Second, Plaintiff did not timely seek to amend the pleading
and include the proposed pleading as is required when a party seeks to avoid
summary judgment by going outside the pleadings. While Plaintiff has now reserved
a hearing date for a motion for leave to amend the FAC and filed a motion for
leave on 2/13/24 (two days before the hearing), Plaintiff should have taken
these actions by the deadline for filing an opposition to the summary judgment
motion, which he did not do. Dang v. Smith (2010) 190 Cal. App. 4th 646,
664 (“If a party seeks to avoid summary judgment by going outside the
pleadings, it is incumbent upon him to move to amend in a timely fashion…. And
in moving to amend, he must “[i]nclude a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a)(1); cf. 5 Witkin,
supra, Pleading, § 1200, p. 632 [in absence of proposed amendment, it will be
“almost impossible to show an abuse of discretion in denying the motion”].)”).
Third, Plaintiff’s request for a continuance to amend
the pleading has no merit because the FAC’s Fourth Cause of Action for “Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief, and for Damages for Violations of Plaintiff’s Civil
Rights (42 U.S.C. § 1983)” is already broad enough to cover the proposed
allegations regarding unconstitutional impounding. (See, e.g.,  Wallace Decl., ¶ 7  (“Although other constitutional issues are
framed in the plaintiff’s complaint in this case, the specific issue of the
Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirements as they apply to impound of parked
vehicles is not currently included,…”); and FAC, ¶ 31 (“The actions of the
defendant City of Burbank, and particularly the City’s seizure and impound of
the motor vehicles associated with plaintiff and its interference with
plaintiff’s lawful business and expressive activities, were the product of
policies or customs adopted by the City, and constitute violations of the
plaintiff’s Constitutional rights, under color of law. As a direct and
proximate result of the City’s unconstitutional and unlawful actions, plaintiff
has sustained damages….”)).  [Emphasis
added.]  As a matter of law, Plaintiff’s Section
1983 claim already encompasses the Fourth Amendment of the United States
Constitution, because such a claim can include any constitutional rights. Bach
v. County of Butte (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 554, 564 (“Some particularized
facts demonstrating a constitutional deprivation are needed to sustain a cause
of action under the Civil Rights Act.”). Cf. also Laabs v. City of
Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1256-1257 (for summary judgment
opposition purposes, “the allegations in the claim were broad enough to
encompass those in the complaint.”)). Plaintiff’s decision to not oppose the
motion and file an untimely request to continue the hearing thus appears to be
a thinly disguised attempt to delay the hearing.
The Court therefore denies Plaintiff’s request. 
LEGAL STANDARD
In moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
a “defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) 
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff “to show, by
responsive separate statement and admissible evidence, that triable issues of
fact exist.”  Ostayan v. Serrano
Reconveyance Co. (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1411, 1418, disapproved on
other grounds by Black Sky Cap., LLC v. Cobb (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 156,
165; see also CCP § 437c(p)(2). A plaintiff’s failure to provide a
separate statement with the opposition may “constitute a sufficient ground, in
the court’s discretion, for granting the motion.” (CCP § 437c(b)(3).)
“Judicial notice, of course, may be utilized on a
motion for summary judgment.”  Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 887.  Failure to object to requests for judicial
notice constitutes a waiver of the objection. Giles v. Horn (2002) 100
Cal. App. 4th 206, 228.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action seeks declaratory
and injunctive relief based on Plaintiff’s allegation that Burbank Municipal
Code § 6-1-1010 is preempted by California Vehicle Code § 22651. Local
ordinances that duplicate, contradict, or intrude into an area completely
occupied by state law are preempted. Kirk v. City of Morgan Hill (2022)
83 Cal. App. 5th 976, 981.  The
Court agrees with Defendant that application of this law to the undisputed
facts regarding Plaintiff’s claim, see SUF Nos. 1-9, makes clear that Plaintiff
cannot, as a matter of law, establish preemption of Burbank Municipal Code §
6-1-1010.  
Plaintiff’s Second and Fourth Causes of Action allege
that Burbank Municipal Code § 6-1-1010 violates Plaintiff’s due process rights
under the California and U.S. Constitutions. Defendant has accurately stated
the applicable legal standards for demonstrating a due process violation.
(Mot., pp. 12-16.) The Court concludes that when such legal standards are
applied to the undisputed facts regarding Plaintiff’s claims, see SUF
Nos. 10-47, Plaintiff cannot, as a matter of law, establish that the terms or
application of Burbank Municipal Code § 6-1-1010 violate the state or federal
due process clauses.
Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action alleges that Burbank
Municipal Code § 6-1-1010 violates Plaintiff’s equal protection rights under
the California Constitution. Defendant accurately sets forth the applicable
legal standard for evaluating an equal protection violation claim. (Mot. pp.
16-17.) And, when that legal standard is applied to the undisputed facts
regarding Plaintiff’s claim, see SUF Nos. 48-73, Plaintiff cannot, as a
matter of law, establish that Burbank Municipal Code § 6-1-1010 violates the
equal protection clause in the California Constitution. 
The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff, but Plaintiff
provided no opposition, including no separate statement. Plaintiff therefore
has not raised any triable issue of fact. Accordingly, the Court grants
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 