 Case Number:  22STCV15295    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
6-11-24
Case
#22STCV15295
 
VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Woojoo Kim
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Valley View-Santa Fe Springs LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Vacate Default
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Valley View-Santa Fe Springs LLC leased certain premises, 14525 Velley View
Avenue, Suite H, Santa Fe Springs, to Defendant Endotec, Inc. for a five year
term from March 1, 2016 to February 28, 2021. Defendants Woojoo Kim and Young
Dock Shim executed a guaranty on the lease. Plaintiff alleges tenant ceased
making payments in June 2020, thereby leading a total default of $16,451.10.
Plaintiff additionally alleges excessive wear and tear damage to the premises,
thereby leading to an additional claim for $15,135.46 less the $3,655.80
security deposit. 
 
On
May 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Contract. On December 1,
2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Breach of Contract, and
Breach of Guaranty. On February 16 and 28, 2023, the clerk entered defaults
against Woojoo Kim and Endotec, Inc., respectively. On July 20, 2023, the court
entered judgment against Kim for $32,227.66. On September 19, 2023, an order of
dismissal for Young Dock Shim was entered.
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendant Woojoo Kim moves to vacate the February 16 and
July 20, 2023, default and default judgment on grounds of lack of actual notice
of the complaint, or alternatively on grounds of mistake, inadvertence, and/or
excusable neglect. Woojoo Kim also intermingles an argument for relief based on
extrinsic mistake. The court electronic filing system shows no filed opposition
at the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff. Moving party filed a
notice of non-opposition and declaration.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473.5 provides in part:
 
(a) When service of a summons has
not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a
default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action,
he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or
default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall
be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or
her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that
the default or default judgment has been entered.
…
(c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was
made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or
default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend
the action.
 
A plaintiff has the initial burden to establish valid
statutory service of a summons and complaint. (Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1439-40; Floveyor Internat. v. Sup. Ct. (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 789, 794.) Plaintiffs filed multiple proofs of service. On
December 19, 2022, the court granted leave to serve the Secretary of State for
Endotec, Inc., due to the inability to execute service on the agent for
service, Woojoo Kim at any identified address. On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service attesting to personal service on “KIM woo joo AKA
Woojoo Hoover” at 2510 Monterey Pl., Fullerton, on December 24, 2022. On
February 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second proof of service representing
personal service on “KIM WOOJOO aka WOOJOO KIM” on December 24, 2022, at 2510
Monterey Pl., Fullerton. On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a third proof of
service attesting to personal service of “KIM WOOJOO aka WOOJOO KIM, an
individual” on December 24, 2022, at 2510 Monterey Pl., Fullerton. 
 
All three proofs of service were executed by a licensed
process server. “The return of a
process server registered [under] Division 8 of the Business and Professions
code upon process or notice establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of producing
evidence, of the facts stated in the return.” (Evid. Code, § 647.) The proofs of service remain
factually undisputed. A writ of execution was entered on October 11,
2023, and returned on March 13, 2024, following the levy on a bank account in
the name of Woojoo Kim. The motion was filed on March 19, 2024.
 
Woojoo Kim concedes to knowledge
of the action and concedes to communications with counsel regarding the denial
of any liability notwithstanding the execution of the guaranty. [Affidavit of
Woojoo Kim, ¶¶ 10-13.] Notwithstanding, Woojoo Kim maintains Plaintiff was
obliged to provide notice of the default. The court finds no legal authority
for this position. Again, Woojoo Kim appears aware of the summons and
complaint, with no challenge to the validity of service. The court finds no
basis for relief on grounds of the failure to then notify Woojoo Kim again
about the entry of default prior to seeking the writ of execution. The motion
is therefore denied on the basis of improper service or notice.
 
The court considers the alternative request. Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) provides in part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 
“The six-month
time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional and the court may
not consider a motion for relief made after that period has elapsed.
(Citation.) The six-month period runs from entry of default, not entry of
judgment.” (Manson, Iver & York v.
Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) The motion was filed 243 days,
or seven months and 28 days after entry of the judgment, and 397 days, or one
year, one month and three days after the entry of default. The court lacks
jurisdiction to grant relief. The motion is therefore denied on this basis. 
 
Woojoo Kim finally
cites to extrinsic mistake doctrine. Given the lapse of the six month deadline
and lack of invalid notice, the requested relief depends on equity. “[E]xtrinsic mistake” constitutes “a term broadly applied when
circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing
on the merits.” (Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981.) “[E]xtrinsic mistake exists when the ground ... is the excusable
neglect of the defaulting party to appear and present his claim or defense. If
that neglect results in an unjust judgment, without a fair adversary hearing,
the basis for equitable relief on the ground of extrinsic mistake is present. (Citation.)
Relief will be denied, however, if the complaining party's negligence permitted
the ... mistake to occur. (Citation.)” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black, supra, 176 Cal.App.4th at p. 47.) Circumstances of
extrinsic mistake include numerous examples, including: “when one party relies on another to defend (Citations); ... when a
mistake led a court to do what it never intended (Citation); when a mistaken
belief of one party prevented proper notice of the action (Citations); ... cases
involving ... mistaken belief as to immunity from suit (Citations). (Kulchar v. Kulchar (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467,
471-472.) 
 
“‘To set aside
a judgment based upon extrinsic mistake one
must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted party must demonstrate that
it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party seeking to set aside the
default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to
the original action. Last [ ], the moving party must demonstrate diligence in
seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.’” (Rappleyea v. Campbell, supra, 8 Cal.4th
at p. 982.)
 
Since the equitable power of the court is being invoked, the
relief sought is subject to equitable defenses, including laches. Thus, relief
may be denied if it is shown that the moving party has been guilty of
unreasonable delay in seeking relief, causing prejudice to the opposing party.
(McCreadie v. Arques (1967) 248
Cal.App.2d 39, 46 [plaintiff would be prejudiced by having to prove matters 5
years old if judgment set aside].)  The
greater the prejudice to the responding party, the more likely it is that the
court will determine that equitable defenses such as laches or estoppel apply
to the request to vacate a valid judgment. (Rappleyea
v. Campbell, supra, 8 Cal.4th
at p. 983.)
 
Woojoo Kim admits to executing the
guaranty on behalf of a Endotec, Inc., an employer at the time. Endotec, Inc.
was owned by a South Korean corporation identified as Korea Bone Bank Co., Ltd.
The lease required a signature and guaranty of a United States resident, which
led to Woojoo Kim being “mandated” to execute the lease. Woojoo Kim was unaware
of the impacts of the guaranty if the lessee defaulted. Woojoo Kim was
eventually terminated from employment. Upon service of the lawsuit, Woojoo Kim
contacted counsel, and believed a dismissal was forthcoming due to the lack of
any continuing relationship with Endotec, and denial of responsibility for the
default. [Affidavit of Woojoo Kim.]
 
The court accepts the circumstances for not responding to
the complaint and the diligence in seeking relief upon execution of the writ to
the bank account. Woojoo Kim only cites to numerous meritorious affirmative
defenses, and in fact includes a proposed answer, which the court also accepts
as meeting the first element of the required showing. The court declines to
substantively consider the merits of any and all proposed defenses to the
action.
 
Judgment Creditor presents no opposition and therefore
otherwise expresses no basis of prejudice. The court finds the underlying
collection unfairly imposes a hardship of Woojoo Kim, thereby warranting
adjudication on the merits. The court therefore grants the motion to vacate on
equitable grounds.
 
Woojoo Kim is ordered to separately file the answer within
10 days of this order.
 
Woojoo Kim to give notice.
 