 Case Number:  23STCV10162    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68 Date:  6-11-24 c/f 5-29-24 (3-25-24 stipulation and order) Case  #23STCV10162 Trial  Date: Not Set   MEDICAL SUBPOENA   MOVING  PARTY: Plaintiff, Alexis Craney-Foster  RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendant, Skyhop Global, LLC   RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  to Quash Subpoena for Records from Express Care CA Virtual   SUMMARY  OF ACTION Plaintiff Alexis Craney-Foster was an employee of defendant  SkyHop Global LLC from January 8, 2021, through September 27, 2022, as an  airport shuttle driver for airport employees. During the course of employment,  Plaintiff alleges defendant Timothy Boykin began a course of sexually  inappropriate comments and touching. On June 5, 2021, Boykin visited her home,  where he non-consensually engaged in sexual intercourse with Plaintiff while  Plaintiff was intoxicated and incapacitated in her home after normal work  hours.   Plaintiff complained about the conduct of Boykin, which  led, at least in part to his dismissal. New supervisor defendant Eros Surla  also allegedly engaged in sexually harassing conduct.   Plaintiff again complained, and was promised $50,000 in exchange for the  execution for a settlement agreement. Plaintiff refused. Plaintiff continued to  report the inappropriate conduct of Surla, but was told no relief was  available. Plaintiff was subsequently terminated.    On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 17 cause of action  complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid  Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment  – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the  FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in  Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual  Assault and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation  of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the  FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in  Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation  of Labor Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor  Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor  Code § 226; Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;  Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation  of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; and, Breach of Contract in  Violation of Civil Code Section 1549. On September 5, 2023, the court sustained  the demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action in the complaint with leave to  amend.    On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 16 cause of action first  amended complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid  Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment  – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the  FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in  Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual  Assualt and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation  of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the  FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in  Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation  of Labor Code § 226.7; 13; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor  Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor  Code § 226; 15. Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;  and, Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in  Violation of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5. On December 14,  2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the  first amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike allegations in regard  to the conduct of Boykin without leave to amend.   On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended  complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid Pro Quo  – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment – Sexual  Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;  Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation  of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual Assault  and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of the  FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; Wrongful  Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in Violation of Labor  Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §  226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7;  Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226;  Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203; and, Failure to  Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation of Labor  Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; Breach of Contract in Violation of  Civil Code Section 1549.   On April 10, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of  SkyHop without leave to amend as to the to seventh cause of action for sexual  assault and battery, and overruled the remainder of the demurrer. The court  granted the motion to strike the seventeenth cause of action with  prejudice/without leave to amend, and denied the remainder of the motion.  SkyHop answered the second amended complaint on April 19, 2024. On April 26,  2024, Plaintiff dismissed Timothy Boykin.   RULING: Denied. Plaintiff  Craney-Foster moves to quash the deposition subpoena served by Defendant SkyHop  Global, LLC (SkyHop) seeking medical records served on third party Express Care  CA Virtual. Plaintiff contends the records sought are overbroad, and therefore  infringe on medical rights of privacy and seek irrelevant information. SkyHop  in opposition maintains the records are relevant in that Plaintiff placed her  emotional state at issue, thereby outweighing any privacy concerns. SkyHop  further maintains the subpoena is narrowly tailored. Plaintiff in reply  reiterates the overbroad position in that the subpoena fails to limit discovery  to the claims within the instant action, thereby invading privacy rights.   “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness … the  court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),  … may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing  compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,  including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as  may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive  demands…” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1987.1, subd. (a).)   The subpoena  itself was the result of placement of emotional distress as a result of the  conduct of SkyHop.    “Responding  Party has suffered and continues to suffer, without limitation, emotional  distress, mental and physical pain, anguish, suffering, loss of sleep, loss of  appetite, depression, shame, humiliation, loss of confidence, and loss of  self-esteem. ... (a) PLAINTIFF continuously experiences extreme trauma and PTSD  symptoms related to the sexual assault and harassment. (b) Becoming worse (c)  Sporadically in the evenings.” [Declaration of Regina Agopian, ¶ 4, Ex. 1:  Responses to Form Interrogatories, numbers 6.2-6.3.] The medical provider(s)  were identified in discovery. [Declaration or Regina Agopian Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. 5:  Supplemental Responses to Form Interrogatories – Employment, numbers 204.3  & 204.6 ]   Prior  to the filing of the motion, SkyHop requested HIPPA releases, which Plaintiff  refused to execute. [Agopian Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.] Subpoenas were subsequently served  on the medical provider.   “1. All documents which concern, reference, or otherwise  relate to the diagnosis, care, treatment and/or prognosis of CRANEY-FOSTER from  January 1, 2021, to the present.  2. All documents, including, but not limited to, all  writings, correspondence, emails, memoranda, medical records, psychiatric and  psychological records, charts, histories, physicals, reports, doctor’s notes,  nurse’s notes, prescriptions, evaluations, consultations, diagnostic tests and  test results, psychiatric and/or psychological tests and test results, which  concern, reference, or otherwise relate to CRANEY-FOSTER from January 1, 2021,  to the present.  3. Any and all communications from January 1, 2021, to the  present between YOU and anyone concerning CRANEY-FOSTER’s health care.  4. Any and all communications from January 1, 2021, to the  present between you and CRANEY-FOSTER concerning her health care.  5. Any and all documents from January 1, 2021, to the  present, which you received from any other doctor, psychiatrist, psychologist,  hospital, or other health care provider or health care facility, which concern,  reference, or otherwise relate to CRANEY-FOSTER.  6. Any and all documents relating to CRANEY-FOSTER’s ability  to work, including any documents reflecting or relating to any medical  restrictions or leaves of absence from January 1, 2021, to the present. 7. All documents which YOU used in YOUR evaluation and/or  analysis of the medical condition and/or mental health of CRANEY-FOSTER from  January 1, 2021, to the present. 9. All documents, including, but not limited  to, sign-in sheets, bills or other billing information, which concern,  reference or otherwise relate to CRANEY-FOSTER from January 1, 2021, to the  present.”   [Agopian Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. 9: Deposition Subpoena.]   “[T]he mere  filing of a lawsuit does not trigger application of the patient-litigant  exception.” (Patterson v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 927, 930.) A patient may  continue to exercise a reasonable expectation of privacy of their medical  information if the information is not directly relevant to a particular  condition the patient placed in issue. (California  Consumer Health Care Council v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2006)  142 Cal.App.4th 21, 31.) “‘The patient thus is not obligated to sacrifice all  privacy to seek redress for a specific mental or emotional injury; the scope of  the inquiry permitted depends upon the nature of the injuries which the  patient-litigant himself has brought before the court.’” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864.) “‘The party  seeking the constitutionally protected information has the burden of  establishing that the information sought is directly relevant to the claims.  [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (See Barrenda  L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 794, 801-802.) The standard  for good cause requires the moving party to produce specific facts justifying  discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action  or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43  Cal.3d 833, 840.) “[A]n  implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights encompasses only discovery  directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair resolution  of the lawsuit… [¶] … On occasion her privacy interests may have to give way to  her opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance the right of civil  litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons  subject to discovery.” (Id. at  p. 842.)    Plaintiff’s medical emotional medical state was placed in  issue through the filing of the subject action and damages claim, thereby  providing SkyHop with the right to examine Plaintiff’s medical history prior to,  during and after the time of the incident(s). [Agopian Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.] It is presumed from the discovery  responses that at least some of the subject records directly relate to the  anguish caused by the underlying incidents. Plaintiff seeks to limit production,  but the argument itself lacks specificity as to a means for separating  potentially unrelated consultation and treatment. (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d 415, 439; Patterson v. Superior Court, supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at pp. 931-932; see  Evid. Code, § 1016, subd. (a).)   The subpoena  itself seeks information beginning in January 2021, the time of Plaintiff’s  employment, through the present. Plaintiff maintains continuing suffering post  employment thereby rendering the time frame reasonable and relevant. Plaintiff  was given the option of dismissing the emotional distress claims, and elected  to proceed. The court therefore finds a compelling basis for production  in that no reasonable alternatives for discovery of the information exists.    The motion to quash the subpoena is therefore DENIED.  Plaintiff makes no alternative request for a protective order, though the court  finds no basis for limiting production either way. Nevertheless, the parties  may seek to limit records to claims relating directly the subject action (e.g.  subsequent to the incident), but may include prior records for purposes of  establishing a baseline and noticeable changes following the course of events,  if applicable.    SkyHop to arrange for service, compliance and production of  the records pursuant to this order denying the motion for protective order and  effectively allowing production pursuant to the subpoenas.   Neither party makes any request for sanctions. “[I]n making  an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under  Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the  reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the  requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2.)   Multiple motions to be heard on June 13, 2024, as well as  the Case Management Conference.   Defendant to provide notice.Dept. 68Date:
6-11-24 c/f 5-29-24 (3-25-24 stipulation and order)Case
#23STCV10162Trial
Date: Not Set QUASH EMPLOYMENT RECORDS SUBPOENA MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Alexis Craney-Foster RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Skyhop Global, LLC RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
to Quash Subpoena for Records from UPS SUMMARY
OF ACTIONPlaintiff Alexis Craney-Foster was an employee of defendant
SkyHop Global LLC from January 8, 2021, through September 27, 2022, as an
airport shuttle driver for airport employees. During the course of employment,
Plaintiff alleges defendant Timothy Boykin began a course of sexually
inappropriate comments and touching. On June 5, 2021, Boykin visited her home,
where he non-consensually engaged in sexual intercourse with Plaintiff while
Plaintiff was intoxicated and incapacitated in her home after normal work
hours. Plaintiff complained about the conduct of Boykin, which
led, at least in part to his dismissal. New supervisor defendant Eros Surla
also allegedly engaged in sexually harassing conduct.
Plaintiff again complained, and was promised $50,000 in exchange for the
execution for a settlement agreement. Plaintiff refused. Plaintiff continued to
report the inappropriate conduct of Surla, but was told no relief was
available. Plaintiff was subsequently terminated.  On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 17 cause of action
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assault and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation
of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; and, Breach of Contract in
Violation of Civil Code Section 1549. On September 5, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action in the complaint with leave to
amend.  On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 16 cause of action first
amended complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assualt and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; 13; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; 15. Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
and, Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5. On December 14,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the
first amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike allegations in regard
to the conduct of Boykin without leave to amend. On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid Pro Quo
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment – Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation
of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual Assault
and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7;
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226;
Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203; and, Failure to
Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; Breach of Contract in Violation of
Civil Code Section 1549. On April 10, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of
SkyHop without leave to amend as to the to seventh cause of action for sexual
assault and battery, and overruled the remainder of the demurrer. The court
granted the motion to strike the seventeenth cause of action with
prejudice/without leave to amend, and denied the remainder of the motion.
SkyHop answered the second amended complaint on April 19, 2024. On April 26,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Timothy Boykin. RULING: Granted.Plaintiff
Craney-Foster moves to quash the deposition subpoena served by Defendant SkyHop
Global, LLC (SkyHop) seeking employment records from third party UPS. Plaintiff
contends the records sought are overbroad, infringe on privacy rights, and seek
irrelevant information. SkyHop in opposition maintains the records are relevant
for purposes of examining credibility in subject claims based on potential
issues with prior employers, such as claims for accommodation, “preexisting
conditions or alternative stressors.” SkyHop further maintains the subpoena is
narrowly tailored. Plaintiff in reply reiterates the overbroad position in that
the subpoena fails to limit discovery to the claims within the instant action,
thereby invading privacy rights. “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness … the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
… may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).) The subpoena
itself was the result of the identification of the subject entity as an
employer prior to SkyHop from 2014 to 2015. [Declaration of Regina
Agopian, ¶¶ 4-6.] Following
identification of the employers, SkyHop served a subpoena for employment
records. SkyHop maintains the sought after records reflect on the credibility
of the employment claims.  1. All documents CRANEY-FOSTER submitted to YOU expressing
interest in employment, inquiring about employment, applying for employment,
and/or accepting employment, including but not limited to LinkedIn
communications with recruiters, email inquiry, a cover letter / email, a formal
application, resume, and signed offer letter. 2. Documents sufficient to show the earliest contact YOU had
with CRANEYFOSTER regarding employment with YOU, including but not limited to
recruiting efforts and the date of such contact. 3. Documents reflecting any representations or statements
CRANEY-FOSTER made to you regarding her past work experience and/or employment
with YOU, including but not limited to cover letters and YOUR notes of
interviews with CRANEY-FOSTER. 4. Documents sufficient to show any offers of employment YOU
made to CRANEY-FOSTER, including but not limited to the terms of such
employment. 5. Documents sufficient to show CRANEY-FOSTER’s dates of
employment with YOU. 6. Documents sufficient to show the job titles of
position(s) held by CRANEYFOSTER during her employment with YOU. 7. Documents sufficient to show CRANEY-FOSTER’s job
responsibilities, in each position she has held with YOU, such as a job
posting, job description, and/or performance reviews that identify expectations
of the position.8. CRANEY-FOSTER’s performance reviews/evaluations. 9. Documents reflecting any disciplinary action YOU issued
to CRANEY-FOSTER, including but not limited to documented verbal warnings. 10. CRANEY-FOSTER’s personnel file including benefit files,
medical files and leave of absence files. 11. Documents sufficient to show the wages, bonuses, equity,
benefits, and any other compensation YOU paid to CRANEY-FOSTER, including but
not limited to payroll records, sales incentive plans, and/or stock purchase
agreements applicable to CRANEY-FOSTER. 12. Documents that show the reason for the separation of
CRANEY-FOSTER’s employment or other association with YOU. 13. Any and all documents that relate to complaints or
grievances brought by or against CRANEY-FOSTER. [Agopian Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 5-8: Deposition Subpoena and Notice
to Consumer.]  “Privacy interests generally fall into one of two
categories: (1) an interest in making intimate personal decisions or conducting
personal activities without observation, intrusion, or interference (‘autonomy
privacy’); and (2) an interest in precluding the dissemination or misuse of
sensitive and confidential information (‘informational privacy’).” (Ortiz v. Los Angeles Police Relief Assn.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1301.) The objecting party has the burden to file
evidence of the preliminary facts establishing a privilege exists. (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557; HLC
Properties, Limited v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 35
Cal.4th 54, 59.)  Notwithstanding the burden on
Plaintiff to establish the privacy protection, Plaintiff only offers a
conclusive argument for privacy without specific support. An argument can be
made for personnel records subject to privacy protections, to the extent
employment records reflect autonomous protections, (see El Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 342, 345 disapproved of in part by Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.) The standard for good cause compelling production when
privacy objections are concerned requires the propounding party to produce
specific facts justifying discovery, and that the inquiry seeks relevant information
to the subject matter of the action or information reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) Waiver
constitutes a potential basis for justification into the concerned subject
matter. “[A]n implicit
waiver of a party's constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly
relevant to the plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair resolution of the
lawsuit… [¶] … On occasion her privacy interests may have to give way to her
opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance the right of civil
litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons
subject to discovery.” (Id. at
p. 842.)  The subpoena
itself seeks information regarding potential employment issues six plus (6+)
years prior to the employment period with SkyHop. The temporal span alone
renders the inquiry questionable given the identified position regarding
“stressors,” “accommodation” needs and/or other “preexisting” conditions. The
court also finds the lack of a nexus between the purported conduct underpinning
the present action with any potential issues several years before employment
with SkyHop. Even if SkyHop presented a more founded basis, the court finds no
showing regarding the lack of available alternatives given the identified key
factors. SkyHop concurrently seeks medical information, which could presumably
offer information regarding preexisting conditions, stressors or other
(medically) based needs for accommodation.  The court therefore
finds the subpoena invalid, even given the general statement of privacy, and
pro formulaic motion. The motion to quash the subpoena is therefore GRANTED. Neither party makes any request for sanctions. “[I]n making
an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2.) Multiple motions to be heard on June 13, 2024, as well as
the Case Management Conference. Defendant to provide notice. 

































































































































  