 Case Number:  23STCV22956    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  55  
Plaintiff Kelly Lee Salido  (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment
discrimination case against Defendants Royal Bank of Canada, Joanne Arago, and
City National Bank. Defendant City National Bank (“Defendant”) moves to compel
arbitration pursuant to the Mutual Agreement for Arbitration of Disputes (“Agreement”)
between the parties. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
Request for Judicial Notice
The Court takes judicial notice of the six court
filings submitted by Defendant. 
Legal Standard
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” Code
Civ. Proc, § 1281.2. “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving
the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration
bears the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236.
Analysis
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that the
Agreement exists, that she repeatedly confirmed the Agreement, or that the
Agreement covers her claims in this lawsuit. Plaintiff instead argues that the
Agreement is not enforceable because
it is both procedurally unconscionable (the way the agreement was negotiated) and substantively unconscionable
(whether the agreement’s terms are unreasonably one-sided). Opp’n, pp. 9:7-13:20.
Plaintiff further contends that the objectionable provisions
cannot be severed from the remainder of the arbitration agreement.
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated that
when determining whether an arbitration agreement was unconscionable, there is
both a procedural and a substantive element. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿ Both types of unconscionability must be present for a court
to refuse to enforce an arbitration agreement. The court uses a sliding scale
in assessing the procedural and substantive elements, i.e., “the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243-44.
Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion. It is undisputed that the
Agreement was a contract of adhesion, a take it or leave it contract, that
Plaintiff agreed to when she began working for Defendant and then had to agree
to at various times during her nearly 17 years of employment with Defendant. Therefore,
there is at most a low level of procedural unconscionability as is typical in mandatory
employment arbitration agreements. 
Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it is (1)
infinite in scope; (2) infinite in duration; and (3) lacks mutuality. Plaintiff
contends that these provisions are undistinguishable from those at issue in Cook
v. Univ of S. Cal., 102 Cal.App.5th 312 (2024), in which the court found the
agreement unconscionable and unenforceable.
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement compels arbitration of “all claims” between Plaintiff
and an expansive web of Defendant-related entities, with no temporal or
substantive limitations. (Opp., pg. 9.) As such, Plaintiff argues the scope
extends far beyond any reasonable nexus to Plaintiff’s employment relationship,
encompassing personal banking matters, consumer transactions, privacy claims,
and any conceivable dispute with all affiliated entities Defendant has had or
will have in the future. (Opp., pgs. 9-10.) 
The
Court disagrees with Plaintiff. In Cook, the case on which Plaintiff
relies, the agreement required arbitration of all claims the plaintiff/employee
might have against the university, even claims unrelated to her employment. 102
Cal.App.5th 312, 321. Unlike in Cook, the Agreement’s scope (Section
3.1) is limited to claims arising out of her employment. The scope does not
extend far beyond a reasonable nexus to the kinds of privacy or financial
claims Plaintiff appears to be contemplating.
Plaintiff
contends that the Agreement impermissibly requires Plaintiff to arbitrate
disputes indefinitely. Plaintiff points to Section 3.1 of the Agreement, which
provides for arbitration of any employment-related claim even after Plaintiff’s
employment ends with Defendant, and Section 14, which requires that any
amendment to the Agreement be made in writing and signed by both parties. In Cook,
the Court of Appeal concluded that a provision providing for arbitration of any
claims after the employee’s employment terminated was not terminable at will after
a reasonable time because any changes had to be done in writing signed by both
parties, and thus was substantively unconscionable. Cook, 102 Cal.App.5th
at 326. Th difference in this case is that the Agreement’s scope is limited to
employment-related claims, and thus the duration of any such claims is
necessarily restricted by any statutes of limitations applicable to the
arbitrable claims. Unlike in Cook, therefore, a time limit does exist for the arbitrable
claims. The Court therefore concludes that the Agreement is not unconscionable with
regards to duration.  
Finally,
Plaintiff contends that the Agreement lacks mutuality because Section 2.2 grants
enforcement rights under the Agreement to “CNB-related entities,” not just Defendant,
the signatory to the Agreement. Read together, Section 2.2 and 3.1 provide that
Defendant and other CNB-related entities may seek to arbitrate any
employment-related claim against Plaintiff. In Cook, the Court of Appeal
held that a provision that enabled non-signatories to assert claims against a
plaintiff/signatory was unconscionable because the third-parties could enforce
the agreement simply by showing they are beneficiaries under the agreement
whereas the plaintiff would have to show the third parties accepted a benefit
under the agreement. Cook, 102 Cal.App.5th at 327-28. The Court reasoned
that such a scenario is a significant benefit to the employer’s related
entities without a reciprocal benefit to the employee. Id. Similarly here, Defendant’s
unnamed related entities can easily enforce the Agreement by showing they are
intended beneficiaries whereas Plaintiff could only enforce the Agreement
against third-parties if she could establish they accepted a benefit under the
Agreement.  The bottom line is that
Plaintiff should be able to This is an unfair and one-sided provision that
constitutes substantive unconscionability. 
Severability
The
Court therefore finds a very low level of procedural unconscionability and one
item of substantive unconscionability. The issue regarding non-signatory third
parties is not fatal to the Agreement, however, because the reference in
Section 2.2 to the CNB entities other than Defendant can be severed from the
Agreement without affecting the rest of the otherwise valid Agreement. 
Conclusion
The
Court grants the motion to compel arbitration but severs Section 2.2’s
reference to CNB-related entities such that the terms of the Agreement only
apply as between Plaintiff and Defendant, the signatory to the Agreement. The
case is stayed pending completion of the arbitration. 
 
 
 