 On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff Dean R. Isaacson filed a Complaint asserting two claims for breach of contract.Motion for Reconsideration On October 28, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant Trancas PCH LLC’s demurrer to the entirety of the Complaint, without leave to amend.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the demurrer. Plaintiff now seeks for the Court to reconsider its ruling on the aforementioned demurrer.  The primary basis for the Motion is that Plaintiff is facing serious health concerns and this was the reason that an opposition to the demurrer could not be filed.Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a) provides, “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”Here, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate new facts or law that could not have been presented before.  On October 25, 2024, before the demurrer was heard, Plaintiff filed a declaration indicating his health issues.  Therein, Plaintiff states he did not read the demurrer due to his health and the advice of his physician to avoid stressors.  At the demurrer hearing, Plaintiff informed the Court that his health issues were the reason that an opposition was not filed.  (Knox Decl. para. 7.)  Thus, the Court considered Plaintiff’s health before entering its ruling.   Therefore, the Motion for Reconsideration is denied.  Defendant’s RJN is granted.Motion to Seal Plaintiff also seeks to seal his medical records filed for the demurrer and motion for reconsideration. There is a medical report and photo.Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.) The Court finds that there is an overriding confidentiality interest with respect to Plaintiff’s medical records; this interest supports a sealing order, particularly as the documents do not pertain to substantive issues of this litigation; if there is not a sealing order, Plaintiff’s sensitive medical information will be exposed; the sealing order is narrowly tailored to the extent it relates to two documents; and there are no less restrictive means to achieve the overriding interest. The Motion is granted. Moving party to give notice.