 Case Number:  23TRCV00811    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 19, 2024¿ 
CASE
NUMBER:                  23TRCV00811
CASE NAME:                        Gabriela Licea v. O’Connell
Landscape Maintenance Inc., et al.  
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
O’Connell Landscape Maintenance, Inc., and Jones Lang LaSalle Americas,
Inc.   
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Gabriela Licea (“No Opposition”)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
set.
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint
   
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
                                                
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
 
A.    Factual¿ 
 
On
March 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Gabriela Licea (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, O’Connell Landscape Maintenance Inc., Jones Lang LaSalle
Americas, Inc., and DOES 1 through 50. The Complaint alleges a cause of action
for: (1) Negligence.
 
On
February 6, 2024, this case was transferred to this Court from Judge Stern’s
courtroom in Torrance. 
 
On
January 10, 2024, Defendants, O’Connell Landscape Maintenance, Inc., and Jones
Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”), had filed a Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint that was pending before the matter was reassigned
to Inglewood.
 
B. Procedural 
 
On January 10, 2024,
Defendants filed a Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint (“XC”). To date, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 428.10 provides
that a party against whom a cause of action has been asserted may file a
cross-complaint setting forth: “(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (b).)  A
party shall obtain leave of court to file a cross-complaint if it is not
concurrently filed with the answer or at any time before the court sets a trial
date.  Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during
the course of the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (c).) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
As
noted by Defendants, Plaintiff’s Complaint is based on the allegation that she
allegedly tripped and fell when she was walking on a grassy area in the parking
lot of Manhattan Village Shopping Center. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1-2.) According to the
Complaint, as Plaintiff attempted to cross a patch of grass adjacent to the
parking area and sidewalk, she allegedly fell into a depression in the grass
and claims she suffered personal injuries. Plaintiff has sought damages from
Defendants, Jones Lange Lasalle Americas, Inc. (“JLL”) who is the property
manager for the Manhattan Village Shopping Center and O’Connell Landscape
Maintenance, Inc. (“O’Connell”) who is contracted to provide landscape
maintenance from the shopping enter. 
 
However,
Defendants note that during the discovery process, the Defendants and Plaintiff
independently discovered that a sign on the grassy area was moved, which
Plaintiff alleges caused the depression that led to her injuries. Defendants
note that they further discovered after this claim that the sign was moved by
proposed Cross-Defendant, Interstate Cleaning Corporation, Inc. (“ICC”). It is
for this reason that Defendants argue that they need leave to file this
cross-complaint against ICC for the allegations above. As such, Defendants
assert that they are seeking leave to file a cross-compliant to allege causes
of action for: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Contribution; (3) Apportionment;
(4) Declaratory Relief; (5) Express Indemnity; and (6) Breach of Contract as
against proposed cross-defendant, ICC. 
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 428, this Court
finds good cause to GRANT this motion, and that such a granting would be in the
interest of justice. Further, the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action filed against Defendants. As such, this Court finds that it
would be in the interest of justice to permit the Cross-Complaint to go forward
in a single suit, enabling all parties to have notice of proceedings and
discovery in both the main action and the cross-action, and potentially enable the
trier of fact to apportion responsibility among all alleged actors in the same
action. 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s  Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is
GRANTED.    Moving party to give notice.