 Case Number:  21STCV27551    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ARMAND RAMIREZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MACY'S, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV27551  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 29, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Armand Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Macy’s for damages arising from a trip and fall over a moving cart. Trial is currently set for April 29, 2024.  On November 16, 2023, defendant Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC (erroneously sued as Macy’s) (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion for leave to obtain an additional independent medical examination (“IME”) of Plaintiff with Defendant’s spine surgeon Mark J. Spoonamore, M.D. (“Dr. Spoonamore”).  Any opposition was due on or before February 15, 2023; none was filed.   II. Motion to Compel Additional Physical Examination Legal Standard Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837 [wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer].)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.   Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) The burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the action.  A court order for physical or mental examination must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere.  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  The purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying “fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel another to undergo psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Id.)  Discussion Here, Defendant contends that Plaintiff provided he had back surgery in April 2021, and that Plaintiff was advised that he may need a second back surgery. Plaintiff was previously examined by orthopedist Ronald Kvitne, M.D. (“Dr. Kvitne”) on November 2, 2022. However, Defendant avers that Dr. Kvitne does not specialize in spine issues. Dr. Kvitne declares that spine issues were to be addressed by Paul Kaloostian (“Dr. Kaloostian”), whom Defendant had noticed Plaintiff’s second IME. However, Defendant clarifies that Dr. Kaloostian never actually conducted an examination of Plaintiff. Defendant now seeks Plaintiff to be examined by spinal surgeon Dr. Spoonamore. Plaintiff objected to Defendant’s IME notice with Dr. Spoonamore, and after meet and confer efforts, Defendants aver Plaintiff is of the position that he will not submit to an additional examination without a court order. Plaintiff did not oppose the motion seeking an additional examination with a spine specialist, or otherwise dispute that his spine and back are at issue. However, the Court notes that Defendant filed another motion to compel a third physical examination of the spine with Dr. Kaloostian. The language of the IME notice with spine surgeon Dr. Spoonamore is identical to the language of the proposed examination with neurosurgeon Dr. Kaloostian. The Court is unable to determine the material differences in the proposed examinations of the spine between Dr. Spoonamore and Dr. Kaloostian, and thus the proposed examinations appear duplicative. Either Dr. Kaloostian may do the spine examination or Dr. Spoonamore, not both. The Court wishes to speak to defense counsel on this issue at the hearing; the ruling on the motion will be adjusted accordingly depending on the results.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 28th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   