  Case Number:  22STCV04700    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
CLAUDIA MENDOZA, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV04700




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
TORRANCE MEMORIAL MEDICAL CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                         September 21, 2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants
Albert Grabb, M.D. and Torrance Radiology Medical Group
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs
Salvador Mendoza and Claudia Maldonado 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
On February 7,
2022, plaintiffs Claudia Maldonado and Salvador Mendoza filed a Complaint
against Torrance Memorial Medical Center, Torrance Memorial Physicians Network,
Torrance Radiology Medical Group, Richard Huete, M.D., and Albert Grabb, M.D.
based on the medical treatment provided by defendants to plaintiff Claudia
regarding her pregnancy. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with
a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th
826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.
App. 4th 1110, 1119. 
“On a motion for
summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a
prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” 
CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP
§ 437c(p)(2).  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal. App. 4th 463, 467. 
“When deciding
whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that
evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi,
159 Cal. App. 4th at 467; CCP §437c(c).  “’An issue of fact can only be
created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation,
conjecture, imagination or guesswork.’”  Lyons v. Security Pacific
National Bank (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 1001, 1014 (citation omitted). 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Albert Grabb, M.D. and
Torrance Radiology Medical Group
request summary judgment on the grounds that the care rendered to plaintiff
Claudia Mendoza by defendants met the applicable standard of care; defendants
did not cause plaintiff’s injuries; and since there is no liability as to these
moving defendants, plaintiff Salvador Maldonado’s derivative claim for loss of
consortium must fail.
The complaint alleges that around June 2020,
plaintiff Claudia discovered that she was pregnant.  Complaint, ¶13.  At around July 2020, Claudia consulted and
engaged for compensation defendants to competently provide medical services,
including examining, diagnosis, testing, prescribing medications and drugs, and
handling and controlling the care and treatment of Claudia’s pregnancy.  Id., ¶14. 
On July 21, 2020, one or more of the defendants ordered that an
ultrasound be done on Claudia to determine the health and condition of the
fetus.  The ultrasound was performed by
one or more of the defendants.  Id.,
¶15.  The images were sent to defendants
Albert Grabb, MD for review and interpretation. 
According to pertinent medical records, defendant Grabb reported
“irregular gestational sac in the lower uterine segment without pole suggesting
abortion in progress.”  Id., ¶16.  Defendant Ricardo Heute, M.D. also read and
reviewed the ultrasound report associated with the ultrasound by Dr.
Grabb.  Id., ¶17.  Thereafter, Dr. Heute prescribed Claudia a
drug misoprostol and directed her to take it in order to help purge the alleged
deceased fetus.  Id., ¶18.  Thereafter, another ultrasound was ordered
and performed on Claude by one or more of the defendants, wherein evidence of a
fetus with a heartbeat was discovered. 
Id., ¶19.  As a result of these
actions, on February 8, 2021, Claudia was forced to undergo a hysterectomy
thereby depriving plaintiffs of ever being able to birth additional
children.  Id., ¶20.
The elements of
medical malpractice are:  “(1) the duty
of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members
of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3)
a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”  Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696,
701-02 (citations omitted).  “Both the
standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert
testimony in a medical malpractice case.” 
Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at
467. 
Thus, in a medical
malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports
his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes
forward with conflicting expert evidence.” 
Munro v. Regents of University of
California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider. 
Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14
Cal. App. 3d 988, 999.  “To testify as an
expert in a medical malpractice case, a person must have enough knowledge,
learning and skill with the relevant subject to speak with authority, and he or
she must be familiar with the standard of care to which the defendant was
held.”  Avivi, supra, at 470.
In support of their motion, defendants
present the declaration of radiologist Michael Roossin, M.D., who opines that,
based on his background, education, training, and experience and review of the
ultrasound dated July 21, 2020, Dr. Grabb’s report and the addendum to the
report, and attorney Brenda Ligorsky’s declaration and copies of the documents
identified in her declaration, Dr. Grabb’s interpretation of the July 21, 2020
ultrasound was within the standard of care as it existed in 2020.  Dr. Roossin decl., ¶16.  He states that the reason for the July 21,
2020 ultrasound was noted to be “threatened abortion.”  He states that to a radiologist, that meant
the patient was early in their pregnancy and bleeding, and that in this case,
the gestational sac was abnormally low in the uterus, which is often associated
with miscarriage, as it could be moving down in the uterus to be expelled.  Id., ¶17. 
He also opines that Dr. Grabb’s report that there was an irregular
gestational sac in the lower uterine segment without a pole, suggesting an
abortion in progress, was within the standard of care.  Id., ¶18. 
Further, he opines, Dr. Grabb’s report is accurate, and conveys to the
ordering physician Dr. Grabb’s “appropriate concerns that this could be a
miscarriage, as miscarriage is the most common explanation for these ultrasound
findings.”  Id., ¶19.  He also states that the clinical management
of those findings is left to the judgment of the obstetrician, and not the
radiologist, and that it was not Dr. Grabb’s decision whether the patient
should be given misoprostol.  Id., ¶20.  He further opines that the medical care and
treatment which moving defendants provided to Claudia was at all times
appropriate and was within the standard of care in the community.  Id., ¶21.
As to causation, Dr. Roossin opines that to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, no alleged standard of care violation
of moving defendants was a substantial factor in causing or contributing to
plaintiff’s alleged injuries and that no act or omission by moving defendants
either caused or contributed to any of plaintiff’s claimed injuries.  Id., ¶22.
In opposition, plaintiffs present the
declaration of radiologist Carol Benson, M.D., who states that based on her
education, training, and experience, she is “very familiar” with the standard
of care applicable to radiologists, and specifically the standard of care
required in obtaining and interpreting radiological studies such as the
ultrasound taken on July 21, 202 and August 3, 2020.  She opines that based on her education,
training, and experience, and review of the deposition transcripts and
Claudia’s medical records including the radiology studies, the impression
provided by Dr. Grabb in his report dated July 21, 2020 fell below the standard
of care.  Dr. Benson decl., ¶11.  She explains that the July 21, 2020
ultrasound demonstrated findings consistent with a gestational sac with a yolk
sac, implanted on the cesarean scar in the lower uterine segment, and that the
gestational age was five weeks and two days. 
She states that except for being implanted on the cesarean scar, nothing
about Claudia’s pregnancy, as seen by the ultrasound, was consistent with a
failed pregnancy, nor was it suggestive of a failed pregnancy or an abortion in
progress.  She states that a medically
reasonable assessment of these ultrasound findings is that Claudia had a
normally developing pregnancy, located in the lower uterine segment.  Id., at ¶8. 
She opines that based on the findings contained in the ultrasound, Dr.
Grabb should not have reported that the findings of an irregular gestational
sac in the lower uterine segment without embryo was “suggesting abortion in
progress.”  Id., ¶10.  She further states that the ultrasound does
not contain sufficient findings diagnostic of a “failed pregnancy” or “abortion
in progress” nor suggestive of “abortion in progress.”  The ultrasound provides a mean gestational
sac diameter of 11.9 mm, and no heartbeat or embryo were detected.  Id., ¶11. 

As to causation, Dr. Benson opines that
obstetricians routinely rely upon ultrasound reports in the clinical management
of their patients, and that according to Dr. Huete’s deposition testimony, Dr.
Grabb’s report contributed, in a significant way, to Dr. Huete’s conclusion
that Claudia had experienced a failed pregnancy.  She further opines that within a reasonable
degree of medical probability, it is likely that Dr. Huete would not have
concluded that there was a failed pregnancy but for Dr. Grabb’s conclusion in
the ultrasound report that the findings suggest an abortion in progress.  Id., ¶12.
Plaintiffs also present the deposition
testimony of Dr. Ricardo Huete who testified that it was “basically a judgment
call” that the pregnancy was not viable “considering the bleeding, considering
the HCG levels, and considering the ultrasound report.”  Exh. B, at 57.  He also stated that it was his custom and
practice and sufficient “in this case” to rely upon the reports from the
ultrasonographer.  Id., at 60.  
In reply, defendants argue that plaintiffs’
evidence is insufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact because Dr.
Benson does not affirmatively state that she is familiar with the standard of
care in Southern California.  Defendants
also argue that Dr. Benson’s declaration is “ambiguous, conjectural,
speculative, and immaterial” because she “reviewed far more than Dr. Grabb had
in front of him at the time,” which is “particularly important in evaluating
the credibility of and foundation for Dr. Benson’s opinions, since a
radiologist reading a simple imaging study has limited information on which to
base their interpretation of the imaging.”
The court notes that defendants did not file objections
to Dr. Benson’s declaration.  
The court rules as follows:  The court finds that moving defendants have
met their initial burden through the declaration of Dr. Roossin that Dr.
Grabb’s treatment of plaintiff met the standard of care of his medical
profession and did not cause plaintiff’s injury.  The court also finds that plaintiffs have met
their responsive burden by presenting conflicting evidence through Dr. Benson’s
expert testimony to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether moving
defendants’ care and treatment rendered to plaintiff Claudia was within the applicable
standard of care and whether defendants’ conclusions regarding the ultrasound
caused and contributed to plaintiffs’ injuries.
Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is
DENIED. 
            Plaintiffs are ordered
to give notice of ruling.