Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV18819
Plaintiff: Tyrod D Taylor
Defendant: David S Gazzaniga M.D.
People Names: Tyrod D Taylor, David S Gazzaniga M.D.
Company Names: None
Places: California, Los Angeles
Dates: May 19, 2021, March 21, 2024
Events: Medical malpractice case, discovery, motion for undertaking for costs
Money: $100,000
Intentions: Defendant seeks an order requiring the out-of-state plaintiff to file an undertaking
Facts: Plaintiff resides out of state, Defendant has not shown a reasonable possibility of obtaining a favorable verdict
Disputes: Reasonable possibility of obtaining a favorable verdict, breach of duty to possess and exercise the reasonable degree of knowledge, skill, and care
Acts: Defendant discovered plaintiff's out-of-state residency, motion for undertaking for costs
Agreements: None
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure Section 1030, United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970), Landeros v. Flood (1976), Mann v. Cracchiolo (1985), Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001)
Statutes: None
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* "The policy behind the statute is to prevent out-of-state residents from filing frivolous lawsuits against California residents."
* "A Californian defendant to obtain security for potential fees and costs from the out-of-state plaintiff, which counteracts 'the difficulty of enforcing a judgment for costs against a person who is not within the court's jurisdiction.'"
* "The court to grant a Motion for Undertaking, the following requirements must be met: (1) The plaintiff must reside out of state or must be a foreign corporation; (2) There is a reasonable possibility that the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action; and (3) The motion must contain an affidavit in support of the grounds for the motion and a memorandum of points and authorities."
* "Defendant has not shown that he has a reasonable possibility of obtaining a favorable verdict."
* "Defendant should have access to medical documents for his expert witnesses to opine on whether Defendant breached his duty to possess and exercise the reasonable degree of knowledge, skill, and care which is ordinarily possessed and exercised by other members of his profession in similar circumstances."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has denied Defendant's motion for an order requiring the out-of-state Plaintiff to file a $100,000 undertaking. The court found that Defendant has not shown a reasonable possibility of obtaining a favorable verdict in the medical malpractice case. The judge noted that Defendant's evidence includes a document titled "Designation of Expert Witnesses" and another document titled "Expert Witness Declaration," but these documents do not include any expert witness testimony regarding Defendant's duty or liability or explanations on how a favorable verdict will be achieved. The judge also noted that Defendant has failed to produce any substantive evidence relating to the merits of the case demonstrating a reasonable possibility that he will prevail.