  Case Number:  21STCV18819    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  27  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA¿¿¿¿ 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT¿¿¿ 
 
 
¿¿¿ 



TYROD D TAYLOR,¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Plaintiff,¿¿¿ 
vs.¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
DAVID S GAZZANIGA M.D.
¿¿¿ 
Defendant.¿¿¿ 


)¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿ 
)¿¿¿ 


¿ 
[TENTATIVE ORDER RE] DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR
  UNDERTAKING FOR COSTS 
¿¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿ 
Dept. 27¿¿ 
March 21, 2024¿ 
1:30 p.m.¿¿¿¿ 



¿¿ 
RULING:
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR
UNDERTAKING FOR COSTS IS DENIED
 
Background
On May
19, 2021, Plaintiff filed a medical malpractice case against Defendant. Through
discovery, Defendant discovered that Plaintiff currently resides out of state
and now moves for an order requiring the out-of-state Plaintiff to file a
$100,000 undertaking. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has no basis to assert that
there is a reasonable possibility of obtaining judgment in the action or
seeking costs in the amount of $100,000.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1030 provides
the process and grounds for when a defendant may move for an order requiring an
out-of-state plaintiff to file an undertaking. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd.
(a)). The policy behind the statute is to prevent out-of-state residents from
filing frivolous lawsuits against California residents. (Yao v. Superior
Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 327, 331.) This policy is achieved by allowing
a Californian defendant to obtain security for potential fees and costs from the
out-of-state plaintiff, which counteracts “the difficulty of enforcing a
judgment for costs against a person who is not within the court's
jurisdiction.” (Yao, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at 331, quoting Shannon
v. Sims Service Center, Inc. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 907, 913).
 
For the court to grant a Motion for Undertaking, the following
requirements must be met:
(1) The plaintiff must reside out of state or must be a foreign
corporation;
(2) There is a reasonable possibility that
the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action; and
(3) The motion must contain an affidavit in
support of the grounds for the motion and a memorandum of points and
authorities. The affidavit must set “forth the nature and amount of the costs
and attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur by the
conclusion of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b)).
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that he resides
out of state.[1]
The parties disagree as to whether Movants have established a “reasonable
possibility that the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action” and
whether Movants’ affidavit “set forth the nature and amount of the costs and
attorney's fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur by the
conclusion of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b)).
 
1.   Reasonable
Possibility of Obtaining a Favorable Verdict.
To obtain an order for undertaking, a movant
must first establish he has a reasonable possibility of obtaining a verdict in his
favor. Actionable negligence involves a legal duty to use due care, a breach of
such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury. (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970)
1 Cal.3d 586, 594.) In a medical negligence action, the medical professional’s
duty is to possess and exercise, in both diagnosis and treatment, the
reasonable degree of knowledge, skill, and care which is ordinarily possessed
and exercised by other members of his profession in similar circumstances.” (Landeros
v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 408; Mann v. Cracchiolo (1985) 38
Cal.3d 18, 36). Thus, one way for a medical professional to obtain a favorable
resolution in a medical malpractice action against him is for the medical
professional to show he did not breach his duty to possess and exercise the
reasonable degree of knowledge, skill, and care which is ordinarily possessed
and exercised by other members of his profession in similar circumstances.
 
In Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan, (2001)
90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432, the Court of Appeal held the parties moving for
undertaking had proved they had a reasonable possibility of obtaining a verdict
such that a motion for undertaking should have been granted. In reaching its
holding, the Court of Appeal considered the following evidence: the movants’
favorable arbitration award (an award which the plaintiff-appellant appealed to
the trial court), a police report indicating the litigated injuries were the
plaintiff’s own fault, the responding police officer’s deposition testimony
about his post-accident interview of the plaintiff, and expert witness
testimonies (Ibid.)
 
Defendant has not shown that he has a
reasonable possibility of obtaining a favorable verdict.

Defendant's
evidence includes a document titled “Designation of Expert Witnesses”, showing that
Defendant has retained several experts, and another document titled
"Expert Witness Declaration." However, the expert witness declaration
is provided by Michael Trotter, Defendant’s attorney, rather than one of
Defendant's retained experts. In the declaration, Mr. Trotter lists the names,
qualifications, and scope of testimonies but does not include any expert
witness testimony regarding Defendant's duty or liability or explanations on
how a favorable verdict will be achieved.
Unlike Baltayan
v. Estate of Getemyan, supra., a case cited by Defendant, the movant
presented the court with various pieces of evidence to assess the merits of the
case: Movant’s favorable arbitration award, arbitrator’s letter, a police
report indicating the injuries were Plaintiff's own fault, statement from the
investigating police officer that plaintiff caused the accident, and Movant’s
expert witness testimonies, Defendant here has failed to produce any
substantive evidence relating to the merits of the case demonstrating a
reasonable possibility that he will prevail.
This case was filed in 2021 and discovery has been
conducted. Defendant should have access to medical documents for his expert
witnesses to opine on whether Defendant breached his duty to possess and exercise the reasonable degree of
knowledge, skill, and care which is ordinarily possessed and exercised by other
members of his profession in similar. Yet, no expert witness report has
been produced in support of the motion.
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:   
·                   
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.     
·                   
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.     
 
·                   
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.   
 
 


