 Case Number:  21STCV37769    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  27  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA¿¿ 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT¿ 
¿ 



JUAN PABLO FERRUFINO MEJIA,¿ 
 
Plaintiff,¿ 
vs.¿ 
¿ 
MICHELLE JO FINKELSTEIN 
¿ 
Defendant.¿ 


)¿ 
)¿ 
)¿ 
)¿ 
)¿ 
)¿ 
)  
)¿ 


CASE NO.: 21STCV37769 
¿ 
[TENTATIVE] Ruling re Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
  Adjudication 
¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Dept. 27 
March 21, 2023 
1:30 p.m.¿¿ 



 
RULING:
 
Summary adjudication as to Affirmative
Defenses Nos. 2, 4-10, 12-15 is GRANTED.
 
Summary adjudication as to Affirmative
Defenses Nos. 3 and 11 is DENIED.
 
 
Background: 
 
On October 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed
the present lawsuit, alleging Defendant reversed her car, hitting Plaintiff when
he was walking behind the car. On December 7, 2021, Defendant filed an answer,
raising 15 affirmative defenses. After discovery had been conducted, Plaintiff
moved the Court for summary adjudication on Affirmative Defenses numbers 2 to
15 because Defendant has no evidence to support these alleged defenses. In
Defendant’s opposition, she forfeits all of the affirmative defenses at issue,
except for numbers 3, 4, 11, and 13. For those remaining Affirmative Defenses,
Defendant contends that there are triable issues of fact. 
 
Affirmative Defenses At Issue 
 
THIRD AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE: Defendant
is informed and believes and upon such information and belief alleges that at
all times mentioned herein, Plaintiff was negligent, careless and reckless and
unlawfully conducted himself so as to substantially contribute to the alleged
injuries and damages of himself, compared to the conduct of all other parties,
all of which said negligence either bars in whole or in part the damages sought
herein. 
 
FOURTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE: Defendant
is informed and believes and upon such information and belief alleges that at
all times mentioned herein, if Defendant was negligent, co-defendants, both
known and unknown, were negligent, careless, and reckless, and unlawfully
conducted themselves so as to substantially contribute to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries and damages, and said negligence, if any, either bars in whole or in
part the damages sought herein against Defendant. 
 
ELEVENTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
Defendant is informed and believes and upon such information and belief alleges
that at all times mentioned herein, Plaintiff was negligent, careless, and
reckless, and unlawfully conducted himself by: (a) using a public street or
highway on foot and failing to yield the right of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway so near as to constitute an immediate hazard, in violation of
California Vehicle Code section 21954; (b) walking on a roadway in violation of
California Vehicle Code section 21956; (c) suddenly leaving the curb or other
place of safety and walk or run into the path of an approaching vehicle; and
(d) providing valet parking services on a public right-of-way without a valid
Valet Parking Attendant permit, in violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code
section 103.203. Plaintiff’s conduct described in this paragraph substantially
contributed to his alleged injuries and damages compared to the conduct of all
other parties, all of which said negligence either bars in whole or in part the
damages sought herein. 
 
THIRTEENTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
Defendant is informed and believes and upon such information and belief alleges
that at all times mentioned herein, Plaintiff has failed to mitigate his
damages so as to bar, in whole or in part, the damages sought herein. 
 
Legal Standard¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843). “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119).¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519). A defendant/plaintiff moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action [or affirmative defense] has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements... cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
¿¿ 
Movant has two methods to shift the
burden of proof. In addition to the standard method of presenting evidence that
negates an essential element, she may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses
to show that the responding party cannot establish an essential element. (Union
Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 590). Once the movant. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the responding party . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. CCP §
437c(p)(2).    
 
Affirmative Defenses Nos. 3, 4, 11 
 
1. 
Plaintiff's Initial
Burden 
 
Plaintiff grouped Affirmative Defenses
3, 4, and 11 together, citing the same Undisputed Material Facts (UMFs) 3, 24,
and 25 and referencing the same pieces of evidence: excerpts from Marvin
Augustin Cardona's deposition (Ex. B) and Defendant's responses to form
interrogatories, Set One (Ex. F) to support his motion for summary adjudication
of these three affirmative defenses.  
 
A. 
Factually devoid discovery
responses 
 
The Court examined Defendant's
responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, which requested Defendant to state
all facts, all evidence, and identify all documents supporting each of her
affirmative defenses in her answer. Defendant responded that “despite a
diligent and good faith attempt to obtain the information sought, at this
time, given the present status of litigation, Responding Party does not have
sufficient information to fully respond to this interrogatory. Discovery and
investigation are ongoing.” (Ex. F.) 
However, moving
Party’s initial burden will shift based on factually
devoid discovery responses only if: (1) discovery responses fail to set forth facts and
identify evidence supporting responding party’s allegations; and (2) the court can reasonably
infer from the
proffered discovery and responses that the responding party is unable to produce any additional evidence. (Andrews
v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 96, 102-103.)  The
responding party must have been afforded adequate opportunity for discovery (Union
Bank v. Sup.Ct. (Demetry) (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590) or have declared
that they have no further information following extensive discovery. (Weber
v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1441-1442.) Moving party does not satisfy its burden of proof by
producing discovery responses that do not exclude the possibility that
responding party may possess or may
reasonably obtain evidence sufficient to establish its
claim/defense. (Id. at 1441-1442.)  
 
The evidence Plaintiff relies on to meet his initial burden
shows that Defendant's responses were served on 1/31/22, less than two months
after her answer was served on 12/7/21. (Ex. F). Given that discovery had only
been ongoing for less than 2 months, it is understandable that "Defendant does not have sufficient information to fully
respond to the interrogatory.” (Id.) Based on this evidence, the Court
cannot reasonably infer that Defendant is incapable of producing any additional
evidence. 
 
B. 
Affirmative Evidence 
 
Plaintiff introduces excerpts from
Cardona's deposition to meet his initial burden against Affirmative Defenses
Nos. 3, 4 and 11. The deposition reveals that the accident occurred at night
(Cardona Depo. 21:12), with Defendant's car parked on the street. The valet,
including Plaintiff and Cardona, parked a car in front of it and beside it.
(Cardona Depo. 18:25-19:19). Plaintiff and Cardona observed that the car in
front of Defendant's was in the way of her getting out. Cardona asked Plaintiff
to move the car that was in front of Defendant. Plaintiff moved around
Defendant's car to reach the car in front. As Plaintiff was walking behind
Defendant’s car, she began to move and backed into Plaintiff (Cardona Depo.
21:22-22:4, 23:1-10.) 
 
For Affirmative Defense No. 3,
concerning Plaintiff's alleged negligence, a reasonable mind could indeed
question whether Plaintiff acted negligently based on the evidence provided by
Plaintiff himself. Plaintiff's choice to navigate around Defendant's car,
particularly in close proximity, especially knowing that Defendant was in the
process of maneuvering her vehicle out of the parking spot, raises a triable
issue of fact as to Plaintiff’s own negligence. Additionally, the evidence does
not demonstrate that Plaintiff communicated with Defendant as he was walking
behind her car. These are all triable issues of fact and therefore Plaintiff
has not met his initial burden. 
 
For Affirmative Defense No. 11, it is
reasonable to infer that the incident occurred on a public street, as the car
was parked on a street next to a meter, and Defendant was reversing on a
street. Consequently, Plaintiff failed to meet his initial burden concerning Affirmative
Defense No. 11, which pertains to failing to yield to a car on a public street
and walking on a public street way. 
 
For Affirmative Defense No. 4, the
deposition detailing how the incident occurred does not indicate negligence by
anyone other than Defendant and Plaintiff. Although Cardona asked Plaintiff to
move the car in front of Defendant's car, he did not direct Plaintiff to go behind
Defendant's car. Thus, Plaintiff has met his initial burden. 
 
2. 
Defendant’s Burden 
 
In meeting her burden, Defendant
introduces excerpts of her own deposition where she states that she did not see
Plaintiff at any time before the collision. She checked her mirrors and ensured
no one was in the vicinity but did not see Plaintiff. She also did not see
Plaintiff in her backup camera. Defendant speculated that Plaintiff might have
purposefully stepped behind her car, allowing her to hit him (Finkelstein Depo,
Exhibit A to Defendant’s Opposition). This introduces a triable issue of fact
regarding Plaintiff's own negligence. Was Plaintiff walking so fast or so close
to Defendant’s car that she could not see him in the mirrors and camera? This
situation presents a triable issue of fact relating to Plaintiff's own
negligence.  
 
3. 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Summary Adjudication as
to Affirmative Defense Nos. 3 and 11 is DENIED, and Summary Adjudication as to
Affirmative Defense No. 4 is GRANTED. 
 
Affirmative Defense No. 13
 
In meeting his initial burden,
Plaintiff references UMFs 33, 34, 35. The supporting evidence are Defendant's
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One (Ex. F), and Defendant’s Responses
to Requests for Admission (RFAs), Set Two. (Ex. K.) As previously discussed,
Defendant's responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One, were served only
two months after she filed her answer, which does not indicate an inability to
acquire additional evidence. Upon reviewing Defendant's responses to the RFAs,
the Court observed that RFAs 62 through 99 all relate to Plaintiff's mitigation
efforts. (Ex. K.) Defendant’s responses stated that she lacked sufficient
information to respond. (Ex. K.) 
Defendant’s responses were served on March 7, 2023. (Ex. K.) Given that
Plaintiff's requests comprehensively addressed the issue of mitigation, and the
responses were provided after substantial discovery, the Court concludes that
Plaintiff has fulfilled his initial burden.
 
Defendant failed to present any
evidence demonstrating that Plaintiff did not mitigate his damages. In the
opposition, Defendant only produced two deposition excerpts related to the
incident. Defendant has not met her burden, and therefore, summary adjudication
as to Affirmative Defense No. 13 is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
Summary adjudication as to Affirmative
Defenses Nos. 2, 4-10, 12-15 is GRANTED.
 
Summary adjudication as to Affirmative
Defense Nos. 3 and 11 is DENIED.
 
 
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:   
 ·                   
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.     
 ·                   
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.     
 
 ·                   
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.   
 
 