  Case Number:  22CMCV00625    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00625
 Maria Delo Consuelos Bustos Rodriguez v. Ross Stores, Inc.
Tuesday,
 June 25, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
 MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF VICENTE CARDENAS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
DENYING
 PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF ALEXANDRA LOPEZ; REQUEST FOR
 SANCTIONS
 
I.      
BACKGROUND      
      The complaint
alleges claims for premises liability and negligence arising from an incident
in Defendant’s store wherein Plaintiff was injured after slipping on a
disinfectant wipe.
      As the issues in
both motions are identical, this ruling applies to both motions. 
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
requests an order compelling  two non-party
witnesses to appear for deposition. Defendant, Ross Dress for Less, Inc.
(“Ross”),  employed Vicente Cardenas
(“Cardenas”) and Alexandra Lopez (“Lopez”), a Front End Supervisor, both of whom
were present at the time of the incident. Plaintiff served notice of the Cardenas
deposition on November 29, 2023, but Defendant continued the date numerous
times until April 28, 2024, when the parties agreed to schedule the deposition
for May 8, 2024, however, the witness no longer agreed to appear.
      Plaintiff served
a deposition notice on defense counsel for the deposition of Lopez, scheduled
for March 20, 2024. (Boris decl., Ex. 7.) Defense counsel objected to the
deposition notice and indicated that Ms. Lopez was no longer employed at Ross. (Opp.
Diehl Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            In opposition, Defendant argues that neither
Cardenas nor Lopez are employed by Defendant.  Instead of serving the witnesses with a subpoena,
Plaintiff filed these motions. Defendant previously attempted to coordinate
depositions of the former employees, but was not successful.   
      In reply,
Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff’s counsel trusted that Defendant would produce the
witnesses over the parties’ numerous attempts to meet and confer, however, Defendant
did not produce either witness. Defendant should pay the costs of taking the
non-appearance.            
III.   
DISCUSSION
      If a party fails to appear for a
deposition after service of a deposition notice, without having served a valid
objection, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document or tangible thing described in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.) The moving party must show good cause
for the deposition and attempt to meet and confer. (Id.) 
      Plaintiff served a deposition notice
on defense counsel for the deposition of Cardenas, set to take place on May 8,
2024. (Cardenas Mot.  Ex. 12.) Plaintiff
served a deposition notice on Defendant for Lopez’s declaration scheduled for
March 20, 2024 (Lopez Mot. Ex. 7.) 
       Service
of a deposition notice is effective to require any deponent who is a party to
the action “or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd.(b).) The attendance and testimony of any
other deponent, including for production of documents requires service of a deposition
subpoena on the witness. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd. (c).) 
      Defendant was unable to produce Cardenas
or Lopez, both former employees, despite counsel’s attempt to coordinate it.
(Cathy M. Diehl decl., ¶¶ 4-5, 12.) Defendant’s objection to the deposition
notices informing that Cardenas and Lopez left Ross’ employment is meritorious.
(Cardenas Opp., Diehl Decl., Ex. A.; Lopez Opp., Diehl Decl., Ex. A.)
      Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s remedy is to serve the non-party witnesses with a subpoena, as
there is no procedure for the court to compel a non-party witness’s appearance
without a properly served subpoena.   
IV.  
CONCLUSION

      Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions to compel the depositions of Vicente
Cardenas and Alexandra Lopez are DENIED, including Plaintiff’s request for imposition
of sanctions. 
 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT‘S
FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO; REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT‘S
RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL INTERROGATORY; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT‘S
RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
 
I.      
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff requests an order to compel
Defendant’s responses to written discovery. Plaintiff  argues that despite reasonable attempts to
meet and confer, Defendant provided unverified responses to the second set of special
interrogatories (“SI2”) and did not provide verified responses at all to the
supplemental interrogatory or supplemental document request, (collectively, “supplemental
discovery”) despite extensions of time to respond. 
      In opposition, Defendant acknowledges that
the responses to SI2 were not verified. Defendant reserved its objections
initially, which do not require verification. However, on June 13, 2024,
Defendant served verified further responses to SI2. With respect to the
supplemental discovery, Defendant served verified responses on June 13, 2024. Defendant
reserved its objections initially, which do not require verification. 
      In reply, Plaintiff argues that the oppositions
are untimely filed on June 13, 2024, when it should have been filed and served
on June 11, 2024. Defendant does not explain the delay in providing verified
responses until after Plaintiff was required to file these motions.  
II.    
DISCUSSION
A.    
Defendant’s late oppositions have not caused
Plaintiff any prejudice. 
      The Court has considered Defendant’s oppositions
filed on June 13, 2024. although they were due on June 11, 2024,
 (nine court days before the hearing). (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005.) The
Court has discretion to consider late papers in favor of the strong policy
favoring disposition of the case on the merits. (Kapitanski v. Von’s (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 29, 32,
[“Judges are well aware of the unnecessary burdens placed on courts and counsel
when strict compliance with local procedural rules results in the expenditure
of unnecessary time and money for the preparation of later section 473
motions.”].) Plaintiff has not shown any prejudice arising from the late
filing. (Id.) The Court has considered Plaintiff’s reply.
B.    
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set Two 
      Defendant served
objections to SI2, on April 23, 2024. (Opp. Ex. A.) Defendant refused to
provide contact information for any of the witnesses identified in response to
form interrogatories on grounds of privacy. Defendant then served verified further
responses on June 13, 2024, at the same time as their oppositions. (Opp, Ex.
A).  
      A party, or one
of its agents, responding to interrogatories must sign the response under oath
“unless the response contains only objections.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.250 subd. (a).) Accordingly, initial objection-only
responses did not require verification. Notwithstanding, Defendant provided
substantive information in response to SI 66-67, without a verification from
Ross.
      Moreover,
objections must be valid. Defendant chiefly objects to providing contact
information for witnesses, but fails to substantiate the contention that a
witness’s contact information falls outside the scope of permissible discovery.
Defendant contends only that Plaintiff’s motions are moot given Defendant’s
further responses served at the same time as its opposition. The motions are
not rendered moot as Plaintiff is entitled to file motions to compel further
responses where Plaintiff believes objections are without merit. (Code Civ.
Proc., §2030.290(b).) The “burden of justifying any objection and failure to
respond remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory." (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) 
      The scope of
discovery is broadly construed and expressly permits discovery to obtain "the
identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter,
as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and
location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) The right of privacy is not absolute and protects
the person’s reasonable expectation of privacy against a “serious invasion.” (Puerto
v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250.)
      While employees’
or former employees’ contact information may be “personal, " such
information remains discoverable because the information is:
“… not particularly
sensitive, as it is merely contact information, not medical or financial
details, political affiliations, sexual relationships, or personnel information
[citations omitted]. This is basic civil discovery. These individuals have been
identified by Wild Oats as witnesses. Nothing could be more ordinary in
discovery than finding out the location of identified witnesses so that they
may be contacted, and additional investigation performed. (Planned
Parenthood, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 359, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 627 [home
addresses and telephone numbers are ‘routinely produced during discovery’].) As
the Supreme Court pointed out in Pioneer, the information sought by the
petitioners here—the location of witnesses—is generally discoverable, and it is
neither unduly personal nor overly intrusive." (Puerto
v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253–1254.) 
Additionally, refusing to disclose
contact information prevents the Plaintiff from issuing subpoenas for the
witness’s respective depositions until such time that Defendant agrees to
provide the information. Trial is currently set for November 18, 2024.
Plaintiff is entitled to expeditiously prepare her case. 
      Defendant
refused to provide identities of the persons most knowledgeable on policies and
procedures for reporting customer complaints regarding incidents on the
premises, policies, and procedures for Defendant’s loss prevention department; and
the person most qualified about safety training manuals provided to employees
that were in effect at the time of the incident. (Opp. Ex. A, SI 66-69.) These are
not “vague and ambiguous” descriptions of the topics about which Plaintiff
wants to inquire. These objections are equally without merit. 
      Finally,
Defendant does not explain why it did not respond to Plaintiff’s efforts to
meet and confer from April 28, 2024, through May 13, 2024, until after
Plaintiff filed this motion. The delay caused by asserting improper objections
and failing to meet and confer caused Plaintiff to incur fees and costs to
prepare these motions. 
C.    
Responses to Supplemental Interrogatory and Supplemental
Production of Documents
      Plaintiff served
supplemental discovery on March 21, 2024, to "elicit any later acquired
information bearing on all answers previously made by any party” in response to
interrogatories and request for production of documents. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.070 subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.050 (a).) Plaintiff permitted an extension to respond
until May 7, 2024. (Mot. Boris Decl. Ex. 3.) Defendant requested an extension
of time to respond, but never responded, despite Plaintiff’s numerous efforts
to meet and confer. (Mot. Boris Decl. ¶¶ 1-7.)
      Defendant does
not explain why responses were served after the due date and not until June 13,
2024, when Defendant filed its opposition to this motion, or why Defendant
failed to respond to Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer. (Opp. Ex. A.) 
      In its
supplemental responses, Defendant asserted numerous objections despite the fact
that an untimely response waives objections including one based on privilege or
work product. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.050 subd. (a).) Plaintiff is entitled to further
verified responses, without objection.  
D.    
Plaintiff is entitled to an award of
sanctions.
      Imposition of
sanctions are warranted as Defendant has not shown substantial justification
for failing to timely respond to the supplemental discovery or substantiating
any objections asserted in response to SI2. The court reduces Plaintiff’s
counsel’s hourly rate from $450 per hour to $350 per hour which is reasonable
for non-complex discovery motions. The Court permits four hours to prepare each
motion and reply brief as requested and one hour to appear for all three
motions. Sanctions are calculated as follows:



Compel Further Responses to SI2


$350 x 4


$1,400.00




Compel Response to Supplemental
  Interrogatory 


$350 x 4


1,400.00




Compel Response to Supplemental
  document request


$350 x 4


1,400.00




Appearance


$350 x 1


350.00




Total sanctions


 


$4,550.00



 
III.   
CONCLUSION
      Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s three motions to compel responses to
supplemental discovery and further responses to the second set of special
interrogatories.  Defendant is ordered to
serve within 10 days, further, verified, and complete responses without
objections to the Special Interrogatories, Set Two; and further, verified, and
complete responses without objection to  Supplemental
Interrogatory and Supplemental Request for Production of Documents. 
      Defendant Ross Dress
for Less, Inc. and its counsel Prindle, Goetz, Barnes & Reinhotlz, LLP,
jointly and severally, are ordered to pay Plaintiff $4,550 within 10 days. 