..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 19SMCV02073
Plaintiff's Name: GEORGE KOPEK, et al.
Defendant's Name: BAGRAM MARDIROSSIAN, et al.
People-Names: Richard Lee, Toni Kopek, Bagram Mardirossian, Susanna Mardirossian
Company-Names: Casa Gateway Homeowners Association (HOA)
Places: Pacific Palisades, Beverly Hills Courthouse
Dates: November 9, 2023, August 4, 2023
Events: Motion for judgment on the pleadings, motion to approve proposed judgment, motion to sever and try separately
Money: None
Intentions: To resolve disputes over parking spaces and ownership of condominium building
Facts: Plaintiffs claim ownership of two parking spaces, G114 and G116, and contend Defendants are illegally occupying them. Defendants counter-sued, alleging adverse possession, prescriptive easement, and declaratory relief.
Disputes: Ownership of parking spaces, illegal occupation, and enforcement of governing documents
Acts: Motion for judgment on the pleadings, motion to approve proposed judgment, motion to sever and try separately
Agreements: None
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Constitution
Case Citations: Sjoberg v. Hastorf, Nicholson v. Henderson, Shaw v. Superior Court, Caira v. Offner, Nwosu v. Uba, Dills v. Delira Corp.
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure ยง598, Code of Civil Procedure ยง1048(b)
Roles:
  - Judge: Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
  - Plaintiff: GEORGE KOPEK, et al.
  - Defendant: BAGRAM MARDIROSSIAN, et al.
  - Homeowners Association: Casa Gateway Homeowners Association (HOA)
  - Attorney: None mentioned
Significant Statements:
  - "To attempt to adjudicate the rights of one party by a single judgment and those of the other by a separate judgment when the controversy is between only two parties and concerns but one subject matter . . . is simply an attempt to dispose of the case piecemeal, a procedure which has been condemned by this court in numerous decisions."
  - "There is no right to jury trial where the 'gist' of an action depends on the application of equitable doctrines."
```

Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on two motions: one regarding a proposed judgment on a cross-complaint and another regarding a request to sever and try separately certain causes of action. In the first motion, the court denies the request to approve a proposed judgment, finding that it would be piecemeal and not final or appealable. In the second motion, the court grants the request to sever and try separately the remaining causes of action in the cross-complaint, finding that they involve purely equitable issues and should be decided by the court before any jury trial.
