 Case Number:  22SMCV01836    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ALEXANDER ASH,    Plaintiff, v.  ASHTON SQUARE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV01836     Hearing Date:  November 9, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:    PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO     AMEND COMPLAINT       BACKGROUND This case involves a dispute between a homeowner and homeowners’ association.  Plaintiff Alexander Ash claims Ashton Square Homeowners Association Inc. (“HOA”) failed to timely investigate and repair water damage to his condominium unit.   This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complaint.  Plaintiff seeks to add (1) defendant Kathy Attai, the president of the HOA’s board of directors, (2) a cause of action for negligence, and (3) a new prayer for relief.  Plaintiff argues that the additional allegations arise from the same basic facts as the original complaint, and accordingly, there is no prejudice because discovery that has already been taken will apply equally to the proposed amendments.  No opposition was filed as of the posting of this tentative ruling.      LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 473(a)(1), provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ Under California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a),¿a motion to amend a pleading shall:¿ (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;¿ (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and¿ (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿¿ ¿ In addition, under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b),¿a¿separate declaration¿must accompany the motion and must specify:¿¿ (1) the effect of the amendment;¿ (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;¿ (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and¿ (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ ¿¿ The Court’s discretion to grant leave “should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the Court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿¿The Court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿¿ DISCUSSION Plaintiff’s declaration in support of his motion for leave to amend does not satisfy the requirements under CRC Rule 3.1324.  While Plaintiff identifies the proposed amendments and their effect, the declaration does not explain when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and¿the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  For these reasons, the Court denies the motion for leave to amend.  ¿  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to amend complaint.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 9, 2023            ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 