 Case Number:  24VECV00256    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  T  
HOMAYOUN V
BMW 24VECV00256
 
Tentative
ruling: Motion to compel - the court orders that within 10 days, BMW provide a
verified CODE COMPLIANT response to the Requests for Production of Documents to
Defendant, Set One Nos. 1, 2, 3, 7, 15, 16, 23, 24, 27, 28, 37, 38, 49, 50, 59,
60, 65, 66, 69, 70, 71, 72, 78, 79, 86, 88, 90, 99, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117,
118, 132, 133.  
 
The previous
responses are NOT CODE COMPLIANT and are subject to frivolous objections. 
BMW is reminded that this is a three step process: First it must state whether
they have the documents requested in their possession, custody, or control. Or
if they don't exist, or never existed, or were in existence but have been lost
or destroyed/ There is CODE language that must be followed.  Then if the
documents exist but are not in BMW's possession, custody, or control, it must
identify who has the documents. If BMW has the documents, it must identify all
of them unless specific documents are being withheld pursuant to
privilege.  The objections are boilerplate and improper.  All
objections in the introduction of its prior response are stricken as not
allowed under the CODE.
 
There shall
be a CODE COMPLIANT privilege log. 
 
Privilege
Log requirements:
 
California
Code, Code of Civil Procedure - CCP § 2031.240
 
(a) If only
part of an item or category of item in a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is objectionable, the response shall contain a statement
of compliance, or a representation of inability to comply with respect to the
remainder of that item or category.
 
(b) If the
responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both of the
following:
 
(1)
Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or
electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the
demand to which an objection is being made.
 
(2) Set
forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If an
objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked
shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information
sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.
 
(c)(1) If
an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information
sought is protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,
if necessary, a privilege log.
 
(2) It is
the intent of the Legislature to codify the concept of a privilege log as that
term is used in California case law. Nothing in this subdivision shall be
construed to constitute a substantive change in case law.
 
All of the
following objections are overruled and cannot be restated:
 
“Responding
Party objects on grounds that it is vague, ambiguous and unintelligible.
Responding Party objects on grounds that it is over broad and unduly
burdensome. Responding Party objects to the extent it seeks information that is
not relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Responding Party further objects on grounds that it fails
to specifically describe each item or reasonably particularize each category of
item in violation of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.030(c)(1).
Responding Party objects to the extent it seeks information that is protected
by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product doctrine.
Responding Party objects on grounds that it was not a party to the underlying
agreement regarding the subject vehicle and it did not manufacture, sell,
lease, inspect, service or repair the subject vehicle. Responding Party objects
to the extent it seeks information in the possession, custody and/or control of
third parties. Responding Party objects on grounds that it seeks information
that is confidential, proprietary and trade secret. The information is
proprietary to and owned by Responding Party. If the information was disclosed,
it would infringe on Responding Party’s proprietary rights. Responding Party
objects to the extent it seeks information of third parties that is protected
by the right of privacy guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution and Article I,
Section 1 of the California Constitution. Responding Party objects on grounds
that it calls for a legal conclusion. Responding Party objects on grounds that
it assumes facts that have not been established. Responding Party objects on
grounds that it is an incomplete hypothetical. Responding objects on grounds it
is compound. Responding Party objects on grounds it is harassing.”
 
After CODE
COMPLIANT responses, then plaintiff can engage in further meet and confer for
supplemental responses.
 
Monetary
sanctions are assessed against defendant BMW in the amount of $3,160.00 payable
by 11/10/2024 to the Client Trust Account of STRATEGIC LEGAL PRACTICES
A
PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION, 1888 Century Park East, Floor 19, Los Angeles, CA
90067 pursuant to CCP section 2023.030(a) – discovery abuse without substantial
justification.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.