 Case Number:  LC104978    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  T THE COURT HAS CHANGED ITS TENTATIVE RULING
AFSARY V EVEREST LC104978
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Judgment Creditor/Assignee of Record Mountain
Recovery, LLC’s Amended Motion to Amend Judgment is GRANTED.
Judgment Creditor/Assignee of
Record Mountain Recovery, LLC’s OSC re: Preliminary Injunction is DENIED and
the Temporary Restraining Order is DISSOLVED as to Julianne Everest and Kenneth
Carter, but the Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED as to Atlantic Holiday, LLC
(Atlantic Holiday); 1499 Alva Lane LLC (Alva Lane); and 7th Par Holdings LLC
(7th Par).
Introduction 
Judgment Creditor/Assignee of
Record Mountain Recovery, LLC (Mountain Recovery) filed an amended motion to
amend the judgment to add Non-Parties Atlantic Holiday, LLC (Atlantic Holiday);
1499 Alva Lane LLC (Alva Lane); and 7th Par Holdings LLC (7th Par) (collectively,
Entities) as alter ego judgment debtors. 
Concurrently with the motion to amend, the OSC re: Preliminary
Injunction (PI) is also heard as to Entities, Julianne Everest (Julianne ), and
Kenneth Carver (Carver).
Entities “specially appeared” on
their opposition to the motion to amend and the OSC re: PI.  Mountain Recovery filed a reply to support
the Motion to Amend.
Julianne and Carver did not file
oppositions to the Motion to Amend or the OSC re: PI.
Judgment against
Defendant/Judgment Debtor Alexander Everest (Alexander) was entered on October
18, 2019.
Discussion 
The Entities argued that service
of process was defective as to the OSC re: PI. 
On July 16, 2024, the Court granted Mountain Recovery’s ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order (TRO) and to set an OSC re: PI
against Nonparties Julianne, Carver, and the Entities.  Mountain Recovery did not give prior notice
of the ex parte hearing to Julianne, Carver, and the Entities.  The Court expressly required Mountain
Recovery to personally serve Julianne, Carver, and the Entities with the July
16, 2024 Order.  Proofs of personal
service were filed on August 27, 2024 as to the Entities only.  Without proofs of service as to Julianne and
Carver, service of process is improper as to them.  Without proper service of process, the Court
lacks jurisdiction as to Julianne and Carver. 
Without jurisdiction over Julianne and Carver on the OSC re: PI, any
order issued by the Court would be void.
Because service of process upon
Julianne and Carver was not performed, the TRO as to them must be
dissolved.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
527(d)(3).)  
The OSC re: PI is DENIED as to
Julianne and Carver.  The TRO is
dissolved as to Julianne and Carver.
The Entities argued that the
Court has no personal jurisdiction over them due to defective service of
process.  On August 27, 2024, Mountain
Recovery filed proofs of service showing personal service of the OSC re: PI as
to the Entities.  However, the proofs of
service as to the Entities showed that a copy of the complaint was not served
upon the Entities.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 527(d)(2).)  
However, the Entities filed a
singular Opposition to the Motion to Amend and OSC re: PI.  The Entities appeared on their Opposition by
“special appearance” designation. 
Personal jurisdiction may be asserted over a nonresident defendant who
makes a general appearance in the action and dispenses with the necessity of
service of process.  The designation of
“special appearance” is not controlling. 
If a party seeks relief on any basis other than lack of personal
jurisdiction, it is a general appearance. 
(Factor Health Management v. Superior Court (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 246,
250.)  The Entities’ opposition disputed
the Court’s personal jurisdiction over them but then proceeded to argue the
merits of the motion to amend and the OSC re: PI.  The Entities argued that the motion to
amend/OSC re: PI should be denied based upon a violation of due process
regarding the judgment and laches, an affirmative defense in equity.  With these opposition arguments, the Entities
have requested relief on grounds other than a lack of personal
jurisdiction.  The Entities’ arguments as
to defective service of process is unpersuasive.  The Entities made a general appearance in
this Court based upon the instant opposition, despite the designation of
“special appearance.”  The Court has
personal jurisdiction over the Entities despite the defective service of
process.  The Entities’ argument as to
defective service of process is unpersuasive.
The Entities argued that Delaware
law, rather than California law, should apply as to Atlantic Holiday and 7th
Par because they were formed in Delaware. 
The Entities argued that Delaware “does not appear to recognize the
outside reverse piercing theory.”  The
Entities did not cite any case law showing that Delaware does not expressly
recognize reverse veil piercing.  Without
legal authority, the Entities rely upon an assumption that a conflict of laws
exists.  Assumptions are not facts.  Further, Mountain Recovery provided Delaware
case law to show that Delaware recognizes reverse veil piercing.  (Manichaean Capital, LLC v. Exela Techs.,
Inc. (2021) 251 A.3d 694, 714.)  Because
Delaware recognizes reverse veil piercing, there is no conflict.  Without a conflict in laws, the laws of the
forum jurisdiction usually governs and the Court need not engage in a
choice-of-law analysis.  (Blizzard
Energy, Inc. v. Schaefers (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 832, 855-856 (Blizzard
Energy).)  The Entities argument that
Delaware law should apply is unpersuasive because there is no conflict.
Accordingly, the court grants the
Preliminary Injunction against the Entities.
As to the motion to amend, both
Mountain Recovery and the Entities submit that the Court has authority to amend
the judgment and add nonparty corporate entities using the reverse veil
piercing doctrine.  The doctrine permits
a judgment against an individual to be enforced against an entity of which the
individual is an insider.  (Curci
Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 222 (Curci); Blizzard
Energy, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 840-841.) 
As it is with adding a nonparty individual to a judgment entered against
an entity debtor using alter ego theory, reverse veil piercing requires: (1) a
unity of interest and ownership between the entity and the individual; and (2)
an inequitable result exists if the acts in question are treated as those of
the judgment debtor alone.  (Blizzard
Energy, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 848-849.)
As to the first factor of a unity
of interest and ownership in 7th Par, Mountain Recovery failed to present any
evidence showing Alexander or Julianne’s ownership interest or membership in
7th Par.  Mountain Recovery argued that
Julianne owned 7th Par but the Account Agreements creating bank accounts
identify entities other than 7th Par (i.e., Comforting Home Hospice, Inc.,
Solid Care Home Health Inc., Lakeshore Hospice, Inc. Horizon View Hospice, Inc.
– See Shalem Shem-Tov (Shem-Tov) Decl. pars. 16, 18-21, Exhs. Q, S-V.) These
are other entities are owned by Mr. Everest.
The Motion to Amend to add 7th
Par as a judgment debtor is GRANTED.
On the motion to amend to add
Alva Lane, Alva Lane provided evidence as to the ownership factor.  Alva Lane provided evidence that Kenneth
Carver was the member of Alva Lane, as of October 7, 2021.  (Chaney Decl. pars. 3-4, Exhs. B-C.)  Alva Lane’s evidence then presented facts
showing that Alexander became a member in February 2023.  (Chaney Decl. pars. 5-6, Exhs. D-E)  With Alva Lane’s own evidence, ownership of
Alva Lane by Alexander is sufficiently shown. 
However, the evidence of ownership does not coincide with Mountain
Recovery’s evidence to support commingling of funds.  Mountain Recovery asserted that Alva Lane
commingled funds with Julianne.  Mountain
Recovery presented evidence showing that Alva Lane’s bank accounts were used to
pay for personal expenses, essentially using Alva Lane’s bank account as
Julianne’s personal bank account.  (i.e.,
payments to masseuse, auto upholstery and repair payments, and personal credit
card payments.) (Shem-Tov Decl. par. 13, Exh. L, Schedule H.)  However, the evidence only shows transactions
occurring between February 8, 2022 and October 11, 2022, which is prior to
Alexander obtaining ownership interest in Alva Lane.  Mountain Recovery’s evidence is insufficient
to show the first factor of unity of interest and ownership in relation to Alva
Lane.  However, the evidence is
sufficient to show that the account was used as a personal account by Julianne.

The Motion to Amend as to Alva
Lane is GRANTED.
On the motion to amend against
Atlantic Holiday, Mountain Recovery presented evidence showing that Julianne
represented that she owned 100% of Atlantic Holiday in an Account Agreement
submitted to First Foundation Bank. 
(Shem-Tov Decl. par. 17, Exh. R.) 
Further, the Entities evidence supported the contention that Julianne is
100% owner of Atlantic Holiday.  The
Entities evidence further provide that Atlantic Holiday was formed on or about
May 19, 2020.  (Marcus Chaney (Chaney)
Decl. pars. 7-9, Exhs. F-H.)  Nothing in
the Entities evidence or even Alexander’s declaration shows that Atlantic
Holiday is a separate property interest held solely by Julianne.  Alexander testified that Julianne holds
Atlantic Holiday as her separate property interest per a marital agreement but
the testimony is conclusory and self-serving. 
Alexander did not attach any documentary support for the contention.  The Court does not find Alexander’s testimony
to be credible.  Julianne did not file a
declaration, in her capacity as Alva Lane’s member owner, to contest that
Atlantic Holiday was formed during marriage and is being held as community
property.  Because Atlantic Holiday is
seen to be community property, Alexander is seen to have some ownership
interest in Atlantic Holiday.  Mountain
Recovery argued that Alexander/Julianne commingled their funds with Atlantic
Holiday, and used Atlantic Holiday’s accounts/funds as their own personal
account/funds.  However, Mountain
Recovery’s evidence only shows that Atlantic Holiday’s monies came from or
transferred to Comforting Home Hospice, Inc., Alva Lane, Lakeshore Hospice,
LLC, Leader Health, LLC, Horizon View Hospice, Inc., and Solid Care Home Health
Inc.  (Shem-Tov Decl. 13, Exhs. L,
Schedules E, K, R, S, T, U, and V.) 
However, none of these entities are shown to be alter egos of Alexander
or Julianne.  The evidence presented to
the court is that Mr. Everest owns these other entities. 
The Motion to Amend as to
Atlantic Holiday is GRANTED.
As the court finds that these
entities are owned by Mr. and Mrs. Everest, there is no question of minimum
contacts.  They banked in
California.  Mr. and Mrs. Everest used
the bank accounts as their own personal monies here in California.  Property is owned in California.  The court does not find Mr. Carver's
objections persuasive in light of the clear evidence that every aspect of
ownership is shown in how Mr. and Mrs. Everest treated the monies of the
Entities. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.