 Case Number:  22STCV16322    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants’
Motion in Limine No. 1 
Plaintiff Ana Kim Nguyen and
cross-defendants Tracy Nguyen Le and Tammy Tat move in limine to preclude
defendants Vinh Hoang Lam dba Tips & Toes Nail Bar and Amy Thu Tran from
introducing or referring to evidence that was “requested in discovery, but not
disclosed and/or produced at that time.” 
(Notice of motion, p. 2.)
The order the motion seeks is too generic and
would not provide meaningful guidance to the parties or witnesses.  A motion in limine should be denied when it
seeks an order that is “not properly the subject of motions in limine … or
[seeks] rulings which would merely be declaratory of existing law or would not
provide any meaningful guidance for the parties or witnesses.”  (Kelly v. New West Federal Savings
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670 (Kelly).) 
In Kelly, the Court of Appeal stated a motion in limine to “
‘exclude any testimony of the plaintiffs which is speculative’ ” was inadequate
because “[n]o factual support or argument was presented to suggest the nature
and type of speculative testimony which [defendant] expected to be elicited
from plaintiffs.”  (Ibid.)  The court cannot “rule in a vacuum.”  (Ibid.)  
The moving parties’ request for a generic
order barring evidence not produced in discovery is improper for the reasons
stated in Kelly.  Plaintiff
and cross-defendants did not submit evidence showing they propounded discovery seeking
specific information or documents or that defendants did not provide the
requested information or documents.
The
moving parties also did not comply with Local Rule 3.57(a), which provides:
“Motions made for the purpose of precluding the mention or display of
inadmissible and prejudicial matter in the presence of the jury must be
accompanied by a declaration that includes … [s]pecific identification of the
matter alleged to be inadmissible and prejudicial” and “[a] representation to
the court that the subject of the motion has been discussed with opposing
counsel” or opposing parties in an attempt to informally resolve the dispute.  (Local Rule 3.57(a)(1) & (2).)  The moving parties submitted no declaration
in support of this motion.
Plaintiff
Ana Kim Nguyen and cross-defendants Tracy Nguyen Le and Tammy Tat’s motion in
limine No. 1 is denied.