  Case Number:  21STCV27825    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb’s Motion to Dismiss or, in the Alternative for
Evidence or Issue Sanctions, and for Monetary Sanctions
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb move for discovery
sanctions against plaintiff Victor Enright. 
After the court grants a motion to compel discovery response, if the
responding “party then fails to obey,” the court may impose terminating
sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, and/or monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c)
[interrogatories]; § 2031.300, subd. (c) [requests for production].)
Plaintiff Disobeyed Discovery Orders
            On
July 31, 2024, the court ordered plaintiff to serve verified responses without
objections to defendants’ form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production without objections within 30 days.  Plaintiff disobeyed those orders.  He did not serve responses until September 6,
2024, more than 30 days after the order. 
(Supp. Goldman Decl., ¶ 3.)  The
responses also include numerous objections. 
(Id., Exs. 2-4.)
            Plaintiff’s
opposition argues the objections are valid. 
He makes a conclusory argument that the discovery requests “seek[]
information related to ancillary case,” and “[n]o privilege has been waived in
that case.”  (Opp., p. 7.)  Plaintiff presents no authority supporting this
argument.  The Civil Discovery Act is
clear: a party who fails to serve a timely response to discovery requests
waives “any objection to the [requests], including one based on privilege or on
the protection for work product.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a) [interrogatories]; § 2031.300, subd. (a)
[requests for production].)  Plaintiff
did not serve timely responses.  He
therefore waived all objections to defendants’ interrogatories and requests for
production.
Plaintiff also did not avail himself of several opportunities
to preserve his objections after the deadline to respond passed.  When defendants moved to compel responses
without objections, plaintiff did not file oppositions to the motions.  Plaintiff did not move for relief from his
waiver of objections.  He did not move
for reconsideration of the court’s order compelling responses without
objections.  By objecting to the
requests, plaintiff disobeyed the court’s orders.
Appropriate Sanctions
Discovery
sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.”  (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “such as are
suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to
accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.”  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)  
At this
stage, imposing terminating, issue, or evidence sanctions would cross the line from
accomplishing the objects of discovery to punishing plaintiff.  When granting defendants’ motions to compel
discovery responses, the court did not impose monetary sanctions.  The court found plaintiff acted with
substantial justification based on his position that discovery was stayed under
Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16, subdivision (g).  Skipping the first level of sanctions and
going straight to greater sanctions is not warranted.  The court will impose monetary sanctions and order
plaintiff to serve responses without objections. 
Disposition
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb’s motion for
discovery sanctions is granted
in part.  
Plaintiff Victor Enright is
ordered to serve further verified
responses to defendants’ requests for production, set one, without objections
within 20 days.  Plaintiff is further ordered to produce all responsive documents concurrently with the written
responses.  
Plaintiff Victor Enright is
ordered to serve further verified
responses to defendants’ form interrogatories – general, set one, without
objections within 20 days.  
Plaintiff Victor Enright is
ordered to serve further verified
responses to defendants’ special interrogatories, set one, without objections
within 20 days.  
Plaintiff Victor Enright and his counsel of record Darren
Richie are ordered to pay defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb
$4,156.02 in sanctions within 20 days.  Plaintiff
and his counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.