 Case Number:  24STCV08692    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings; (2) Defendant
Tesla Insurance Services, Inc.’s Demurrer 
(1)
Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
Defendant
Tesla, Inc. (formerly known as Tesla Motors, Inc.) moves to compel arbitration
of this action against it by plaintiffs Vladimir Semenov and Elko Oksana.  Tesla, Inc. further moves to stay the action
under Code of Civil Procedure 1281.4.    
Existence
of Agreement
            Plaintiffs dispute the authenticity
of their signatures.  The party moving to
compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (CCP §
1281.2.)  It can meet the “initial burden
to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.”  (Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060 (Espejo).)  After the
opposing party “challenge[s] the validity of that signature,” the moving party
must “establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature was
authentic.”  (Ibid.)
            Tesla, Inc. meets its initial burden
by attaching a copy of a retail installment sales contract.  (Kim Decl., Ex. 2.)  On the bottom right of the first page, it provides:
“Agreement to Arbitrate: By signing below, you agree that, pursuant to
the Arbitration Provision on page 7 of this contract, you or we may elect to
resolve any dispute by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.  See the Arbitration Provision
for additional information concerning the agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id., p. 1.)  Underneath, both plaintiffs’ names are electronically
written in cursive font.  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiffs
do not adequately dispute their electronic signatures.  Challenging a signature’s authenticity generally requires a
declaration by the plaintiff stating he or she did not sign the agreement or does
not recall signing it.  (Espejo, supra,
246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1054; Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)
Plaintiff
Oksana states, “The documents of the sales agreement I was shown, does not have
my signature but instead has a computer generated signature, but anyone can
generate a signature.  I do not recall
authorizing arbitration but I would never agree to give up my rights for a
dispute to be heard by the court.” 
(Oksana Decl., ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff
Semenov states, “I do see my name in a computer generated form, but that is not
my signature.  That signature is not
verified and I refute that signature to be used as evidence against me.”  (Semenov Decl., ¶ 5.)  
The
electronic signatures on the arbitration agreement are computer generated, but
that does not mean they are invalid.  “
‘[A]n electronic signature has the same legal effect as a handwritten
signature.’ ”  (Espejo, supra, 246
Cal.App.4th at p. 1061.)  “[A]n
electronic signature is attributable to a person if it is the act of the person.”  (Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc.
(2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1067 (Fabian).)  Plaintiffs do not state those
computer-generated signatures did not result from their actions.  Oksana states she does not recall authorizing
arbitration specifically but does not deny executing the retail installment
sales contract that includes the arbitration agreement.  (Kim Decl., Ex. 2.)  Similarly, Semenov makes a conclusory
statement that it “is not [his] signature,” but does not state he did not
electronically execute the contract.
Assuming plaintiffs adequately challenged the
signatures, Tesla, Inc. meets its burden of showing the signatures are
authentic.  “ ‘[T]he burden of
authenticating an electronic signature is not great.’ ”  (Fabian, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at p.
1067.)  “The party seeking authentication
may carry its burden ‘in any manner,’ including by presenting evidence of the
contents of the contract in question and the circumstances surrounding the
contract’s execution.”  (Id. at p.
1068.)  The moving party can meet its
ultimate burden of the preponderance of the evidence by showing the “security
precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant’s unique username
and password, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to place his
or her name on the signature line.”  (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1062.)
Tesla, Inc. presents two declarations by
Raymond Kim, a manager of “business resolution” at the company.  (Kim Decl., ¶ 2.)  He testifies, “I am familiar with the process
by which Tesla vehicles are ordered and purchased, and the related document
creation and record-keeping processes and procedures in place.”  (Ibid.)  Kim located a copy of plaintiffs’ retail
installment sales contract by searching Tesla’s electronic records.  (Id., ¶¶ 3, 6-8.)  
In his supplemental declaration, Kim explains
the security precautions used to verify that only the buyers can electronically
execute the contract: “The individual who is listed as ‘Buyer’ on the RISC must
access on the Tesla app his or her Tesla account that he or she set up with a
unique email address and password.  The
account owner must then access the ‘Documents’ function of the app and click
through a process titled ‘Review Agreements’ in which the terms of the RISC are
displayed, including the Arbitration Provision I highlight in my previous
Declaration.  The buyer must indicate his
or her agreement to and acceptance of the provisions reflected in the RISC, and
upon completing this review and acceptance process, electronic signatures in
the name of the Buyer are affixed to the Retention Copy of the digitally
executed contract.”  (Supp. Kim Decl., ¶
4.)  “When there is a Co-Buyer involved
in the purchase of a Tesla vehicle, the review and acceptance process I
describe above is identical, except the Co-Buyer receives an email rather than
an app notification, and accesses his or her Tesla account – with its own
unique email address and password – on the Tesla website rather than on the app.”  (Id., ¶ 5.)  The contract “is a Retention Copy created by
the process I describe above, executed by a Buyer whose Tesla account was
created in the name of Oksana Elko and by a Co-Buyer whose Tesla account was
created in the name of Vladimir Semenov.” 
(Id., ¶ 6.)  
This testimony meets Tesla, Inc.’s burden of
showing that plaintiffs’ acts caused the computer-generated signatures to be
placed on the contract, including for the arbitration provision.
Unconscionability
            Plaintiffs argue the agreement is unconscionable.  “Both procedural and
substantive unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established,
but ‘they need not be present in the same degree.’ ”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 125 (OTO).)  “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.”  (Id. at
p. 126.)  Plaintiffs do not meet their
burden of proving unconscionability.
A. Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiffs show a low degree of procedural
unconscionability.  “ ‘The procedural
element addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation,
focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.’ ”  (OTO, 8 Cal.5th at p. 125.)  The “analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into
whether the contract is one of adhesion.’ 
[Citation.]  An adhesive contract
is standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the party with
superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.’ ”  (Id. at p. 126.)  For an adhesive contract, the court must
consider “whether circumstances of the contract’s formation created such
oppression or surprise that closer scrutiny of its overall fairness is
required.”  (Ibid.)  “ ‘ “ ‘Oppression occurs where a
contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise
where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed
form.’ ” ’ ”  (Id. at p.
126.)   
Plaintiffs show the contract was adhesive.  “By itself, however, adhesion
establishes only a ‘low’ degree of procedural unconscionability.”  (Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).)  Plaintiffs show no other basis
for procedural unconscionability.
Plaintiffs argue, “The documents embrace[] all the characteristics of
being signed under duress and fear of not obtaining the Tesla, insufficient
time to review the documents to purchase the vehicle, devoid of any bargaining
power lest the Plaintiffs be denied the Tesla Vehicle.”  (Opp., p. 3.) 
Plaintiffs show no duress.  That
defense generally requires “(a)
Unlawful confinement of the person of the party, or of the spouse of such
party, or of an ancestor, descendant, or adopted child of such party or spouse.  (b) Unlawful detention of the property of any
such person.  (c) Confinement of such
person, lawful in form, but fraudulently obtained, or fraudulently made
unjustly harassing or oppressive.”  (Civ.
Code, § 1569.)  Economic duress requires “a wrongful act which
is sufficiently coercive to cause a reasonably prudent person faced with no
reasonable alternative to succumb to the perpetrator's pressure.”  (Rich & Whillock, Inc. v. Ashton
Development, Inc. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 1154, 1158.)  Plaintiffs present no such evidence.  Fear of not getting the car they want is not
duress.  And plaintiffs present no evidence they had insufficient
time to review the contract.  
Plaintiffs also argue they did not understand the
agreement because they speak Russian.  (Opp.,
p. 2.)  That is not a defense to enforcement
of a contract.  “ ‘[O]ne who accepts or
signs an instrument, which on its face is a contract, is deemed to assent to
all its terms, and cannot escape liability on the ground that he has not read
it.  If he cannot read, he should have it
read or explained to him.’ ”  (Randas
v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 158, 163.)  “Generally, a party may not avoid enforcement
of an arbitration provision because the party has limited proficiency in the
English language.  If a party does not
speak or understand English sufficiently to comprehend a contract in English,
it is incumbent upon the party to have it read or explained to him or
her.”  (Caballero v. Premier Care Simi
Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 518–519.)  
Even if failing to understand the agreement were a
valid defense, plaintiffs do not meet their burden of showing that.  Both plaintiffs state they “speak and write
Russian.”  (Oksana Decl., ¶ 1; Semenov
Decl., ¶ 1.)  They never state they do
not speak or read English.  (See
Evid. Code § 412 [“If weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered when it
was within the power of the party to produce stronger and more satisfactory
evidence, the evidence offered should be viewed with distrust”].)  
Finally,
plaintiffs argue the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it does
not “specifically reference what exact rights are generally more limited than a
lawsuit,” such as the limits on discovery. 
(Opp., p. 4.)  Plaintiffs provide
no authority that specifically doing so is required.  Limiting discovery is part of substantive,
not procedural, unconscionability.  
B. Substantive
Unconscionability 
Plaintiffs show no substantive unconscionability.  “Substantive unconscionability examines the
fairness of a contract’s terms.”  (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 129.) 
“ ‘[T]he unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with “a simple
old-fashioned bad bargain” [citation], but with terms that are “unreasonably
favorable to the more powerful party.” ’ ” 
(Id. at p. 130.)
Plaintiffs do not show that the agreement unfairly limits
discovery.  Courts have held that
agreements that expressly limit discovery—rather than failing to expressly
permit discovery—can be substantively unconscionable.  (Fitz v. NCR Corp.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 720; Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1326.)  Rather
than limiting discovery, the parties’ agreement is silent on the topic.  (Kim Decl., Ex. 2, p. 7.)
Plaintiffs also fail to show that any limit on discovery would be
unfair in this case.  Generally, it is
“not sufficient simply to claim that the discovery limitations [are]
unconscionable in the abstract.”  (Baxter
v. Genworth North America Corp. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 729.)  Instead, it is “necessary to make a factual
showing that the discovery limitations would as a practical matter thwart the [plaintiffs’]
ability to prove his or her particular claims.” 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiffs make
only a conclusory argument that the agreement limits discovery in the abstract.  
Plaintiffs contend the agreement is “substantively unconscionable in
that it requires the employee to relinquish his or her relevant administrative
and judicial rights under federal and state statutes.”  (Opp, p. 4, fn. 5.)  Plaintiffs were not defendant’s
employees.  This is a products liability
case.  Plaintiffs also argue the
agreement is “buried at the end of the” contract.  (Opp., p. 5.) 
That is irrelevant to substantive unconscionability, which is about the
fairness of the contract’s terms. 
Plaintiffs further argue the agreement is substantively unconscionable
because the signatures are not authentic. 
(Opp., p. 7.)  Again, that is
irrelevant to substantive unconscionability. 
And as discussed above, Tesla, Inc. adequately authenticated plaintiffs’
signatures.  
Waiver
            Finally, plaintiffs contend
defendant “waived” any right to arbitrate “by not getting a proper
verification” of their signatures. 
(Opp., p. 6.)  Whether defendant adequately
authenticated the signatures is irrelevant to waiver.  Waiver occurs “when
the party seeking to enforce a known contractual right has intentionally
relinquished or abandoned that right.”  (Quach
v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562, 569.)  Submitting insufficient evidence while
attempting to enforce the right to arbitrate cannot constitute waiver.  Moreover, Tesla, Inc. did present sufficient
evidence that the signatures are authentic.
Disposition
            Defendant Tesla,
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is granted.  Plaintiffs Vladimir Semenov
and Elko Oksana are ordered to arbitrate this action against defendant
Tesla, Inc.  The court hereby stays
the entire action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.  
(2)
Defendant Tesla Insurance Services, Inc.’s Demurrer 
Defendant
Tesla Insurance Services, Inc. demurs to all causes of action by plaintiffs
Vladimir Semenov and Elko Oksana.  Above,
the court ordered a stay of this entire action. 
The court will therefore vacate the hearing on this demurrer.
The
hearing on defendant Tesla Insurance Services, Inc.’s demurrer is vacated.
