 Case Number:  24STCP02867    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Petitioner J.G. Wentworth
Originations, LLC’s Verified Petition for Approval of Transfer of Payment
Rights 
Petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC petitions
for approval of transfer of structured settlement rights by payee Tyler Adkins.  The petition does not include all necessary
information.  A petition must state
“[t]he payee’s name, address, and age.”  (Ins.
Code, § 10139.5(c)(1).)  The petition
does not include Adkins’s address.  A
petition must also state “[t]he payee’s marital status” (id., subd.
(c)(2)) and must identify his “minor children or other dependents, if any” (id.,
subd. (c)(3)).  The petition does not do
so.  It refers to information “as will
best forth in the Declaration to be filed” (Amended Petition, p. 4) and refers
to a declaration by Adkins listing his dependents (id., p. 5, ¶ 3).  The affidavit Adkins submitted, however, does
not include that information.  (Supp. Ex.
D, Adkins Affidavit.)   
The court needs this information before it can
adequately consider the 15 enumerated factors in approving a transfer of
structured settlement rights under Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision
(b).
The “affidavit of Tyler Adkins” is also procedurally
defective.  “An affidavit to be used
before any court, judge, or officer of this state may be taken before any
officer authorized to administer oaths.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2012.)  The
affidavit begins, “I, Tyler Adkins, duly sworn, depose and say that…”  (Supp. Ex. D.)  The header and signature indicate Adkins
electronically signed the document via Docusign.  The affidavit does not indicate it was taken
before an officer authorized to administer oaths.  The affidavit also does not fulfill the
alternative requirements to serve as a declaration under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2015.5. 
Disposition
Petitioner J. G. Wentworth Originations, LLC’s petition for approval for transfer of payment rights
by payee Tyler Adkins is denied without prejudice.