 Case Number:  24STCV14641    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 6, 2024                                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                                Sonya Valenzuela, et al. v. Patagonia, Inc., d/b/a
Patagonia.com
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV14641
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant Patagonia, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs Sonya Valenzuela, Jose Jesus Licea, and Miguel
Licea
 
 
I.         INTRODUCTION
 
            Plaintiffs
Sonya Valenzuela, Jose Jesus Licea, and Miguel Licea (collectively, Plaintiffs)
brings this action against defendant Patagonia, Inc. d/b/a Patagonia.com (Defendant)
for violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA), Cal. Penal
Code § 631. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant secretly allow a third-party
spyware company to eavesdrop on the private conversations of everyone who
communicates through the chat feature at www.patagonia.com. 
 
            On August 14,
2024, Defendant filed this Demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
On October 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
 
On October 30, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. ….
The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, 147
Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Judicial
Notice
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of 16 documents.  The request is GRANTED.  However, the court does not take judicial
notice of the truth of the matters within the documents.  (See C.R. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009)
169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 110.) 
 
B.    
Analysis
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds Plaintiffs fail to allege a
violation of Penal Code section 631(a)’s first, second, or third clauses.  Plaintiffs argue the Complaint adequately
alleges violations of the second and third clauses.  The Complaint expressly alleges only a
violation of the third clause. 
(Complaint, ¶ 28.)  Because a violation
of the third clause is contingent upon a finding of a violation of the first or
second clause, the court examines whether Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a
violation of the second clause.   (See
Swarts v. Home Depot, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 689 F.Supp.3d 732, 744
citing Martin v. Sephora USA, Inc. (E.D. Cal. Mar. 30, 2023) No.
1:22-cv-01355-JLT-SAB, 2023 WL 2717636, at *11 [“A violation under the third
clause of § 631(a) is contingent upon a finding of a violation of the first or
second clause of § 631(a).”].)
 
Penal Code Section 631
 
Penal Code section 631 subdivision (a) provides, in full, as
follows: “Any person who, by means of any machine,
instrument, or contrivance, or in any other manner, [1] intentionally taps,
or makes any unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically,
acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any telegraph or telephone wire,
line, cable, or instrument, including the wire,
line, cable, or instrument of any internal telephonic
communication system, or who [2] willfully
and without the consent of all parties to the communication,
or in any unauthorized manner,
reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the contents or
meaning of any message, report, or
communication while the same is in transit or passing over
any wire, line, or cable, or is being
sent from, or received at any place within this state; or
who [3] uses, or attempts to use, in any
manner, or for any purpose, or to communicate in any way,
any information so obtained, or who [4] aids, agrees with, employs, or
conspires with any person or persons to unlawfully do, or
permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or things
mentioned above in this section, is
punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500), or by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year, or
by imprisonment pursuant to
subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by both a fine and
imprisonment in the county jail or pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section
1170.”
 
A.    
Second
Clause
 
The second clause of Section 631(a) prohibits “[a]ny person
who, by means of any machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any other
manner … willfully and without the consent of all parties to the communication,
or in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the
contents or meaning of any message, report, or communication while the same is
in transit or passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from, or
received at any place within this state.” 

 
Defendant’s demur to the alleged violation of the second
clause because (1) the contents of the communications are not specifically
identified, (2) Plaintiffs fail to allege that the Third-Party intercepted the communications
while in transit or that they originated from or were received within
California, (3) Plaintiffs fail to allege that the Third-Party read or
attempted to read the message, and (4) the party exception applies. For the
reasons set forth below, the court overrules the demurrer.
 
1.     
Contents of
the message
 
            “[P]leading a CIPA violation does not
require identifying a specific communication that was intercepted.”  (Greenley v. Kochava, Inc. (S.D. Cal.
2023) 684 F.Supp.3d 1024, 1050-52.) “The analysis for a violation of CIPA is the
same as that under the federal Wiretap Act. The Ninth Circuit has held that
“contents” under the Wiretap Act “refers to the intended message conveyed by
the communication, and does not include record information regarding the
characteristics of the message that is generated in the course of the
communication.  Record information
includes, among other things, the ‘name,’ ‘address,’ and ‘subscriber number or
identity’ of ‘a subscriber to or customer of such service.”  (D'Angelo v. FCA US, LLC  (S.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2024) No.
3:23-CV-00982-WQH-MMP, 2024 WL 1625771, at *12 (cleaned up).)
 
                Here, the Complaint
alleges “whenever a consumer chats via Defendant’s Website, the chat is routed
through The Third Party’s servers so they may simultaneously collect a
transcript of that chat, along with other user data, in realtime and save it
for later access.” (Complaint ¶ 10.)  This
is sufficient to withstand demurrer. (See D’Angelo, 2024 WL
1625771 at *12 [“Here, the
Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs used the “chat feature” of the Website to
exchange “chat messages” with Defendant's representatives, which were “recorded”
and “transcribed” by Salesforce in “real time,” and that Salesforce read or
attempted to read or learn the meaning of their “chat conversations.” (ECF No.
1 ¶¶ 12, 14, 21, 23, 25–26.) These allegations, when accepted as true, support
a plausible inference that Salesforce recorded Plaintiffs’ chat messages, which
qualify as the “contents” of a communication under § 631(a).”].)  The CIPA claim does not fail on these
grounds.
  
            2.  Interception of the communications
 
            The
Complaint alleges that Defendant’s chat provider uses “automatic routing
software that automatically acquires and transmits user chat communications
without any active input from either Defendant’s employees, agents, or human
representatives. The Third Party acquires Website visitors’ chat communications
by first having its software route them to The Third Party’s own computer
servers that it owns, controls, and maintains. The secret code enables and
allows The Third Party to secretly intercept in real time, eavesdrop upon, and
store transcripts of consumers’ chat communications they think they are having
with Defendant, even when such conversations are private and contain personally
identifiable information (“PII”) – as Plaintiffs’ did. Defendant neither
informs visitors of this conduct nor obtains their consent to these
intrusions.”  (Complaint, ¶ 11.)  These allegations mirror allegations which
were found to satisfy the “in transit” requirement.  (See, e.g., Heiting v. Taro Pharms. USA,
Inc. (C.D. Cal. July 31, 2024) No. 2:23-CV-08002-SPG-E, 2024 WL 3738055, at
*4 [“In the SAC, Plaintiff has plausibly alleged that Genesys intercepted her
communication while the communication was in transit. Though Plaintiff again
realleges that Defendant embeds Genesys's webpage on the webpage the consumer
sees (proactive.com) by using an “iFrame” code, Plaintiff now explains that the
iFrame setup means that “at the same time Plaintiff sends [a communication] to
Defendant,” the communication is “first transmitted to Genesys's servers”
before the communications are sent to Defendant. See (SAC ¶¶ 14, 26).
The SAC also newly asserts that the Genesys Chat API permits communications,
such as Plaintiff's chat communications, to be “transmitted to Genesys in real
time.”]; Valenzuela v. Kroger Co. (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2024) No. CV
22-6382-DMG (AGRX), 2024 WL 1336959, at *2 consumer chats are intercepted when
they are “routed through Emplifi's Astute Bot servers so they may
simultaneously collect a transcript of that chat, along with other user data,
in real time and save it for later access[.]”].)

                Additionally, the
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that the communications originated in
California.  The Complaint alleges,
“Plaintiffs are residents and citizens of California. While physically within
California within the statute of limitations period, Plaintiffs visited
Defendant’s website and conducted brief conversations through the website chat
feature. Plaintiffs were not advised that the chat was monitored, intercepted,
or recorded.” (Complaint, ¶ 4.) The Complaint adequately pleads that the chat communications
were intercepted while in transit and that they originated from California.  The CIPA claim does not fail on these
grounds.

 
           3.  “Reads, or attempts to read, or to learn
the contents or meaning of any message,                  report, or communication”                      
 
Defendant argues there are no allegations showing that the
Third Party read or attempted to read Plaintiffs’ chat communications.  The argument is unavailing.  A violation of the second clause may be
predicated on a third parties’ attempt to learn the contents of the
communication.  Here, the Complaint
alleges, “The Third Party does more than merely provide a storage function for
Website users’ chat communications with Defendant. It is more than the
proverbial “tape-recorder” in the hand of Defendant. Instead, The Third Party
uses its record of Website users’ interaction with Defendant’s chat feature for
data analytics and marketing/advertising to consumers – indeed, that is why
Defendant pays The Third Party for its software.” (Complaint, ¶ 18.)  The finder of fact could reasonably infer
from this allegation that the chat provider, in using the record for data
analytics and marketing/advertising, learned the contents of Plaintiffs’
communications.  The CIPA claim does not
fail on these grounds.
 
4. Party
Exception
 
To determine whether the party exception applies, the court
must first determine whether the pleadings identify the third-party company as
an extension of Defendant. “[W]hether software providers … are third parties under
California’s eavesdropping statute, or mere tools used by websites, goes to the
heart of the privacy concerns articulated in Section 631 and California cases
interpreting it.” (Javier v. Assurance IQ, LLC (N.D. Cal. 2023) 649 F.
Supp. 3d 891, 897.)  The question is
whether the third party is being used more like a tape recorder used by one
party (deemed not to be eavesdropping) or a friend listening in on another
extension (deemed to be eavesdropping prohibited by the act). (Id. at p.
900.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges a third-party chat provider used
the information gathered from Defendant’s chat communications in a manner that
did not simply record the interactions for Defendant’s use.  Specifically, the Complaint alleges that the
third party company uses the information for data analytics and
marketing/advertising to consumers.  (See
Complaint, ¶ 18.) Accordingly, the third party acted more like an eavesdropper
and not like a tape recorder.  The party
exception fails.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant is ordered to serve and file their answer within
10 days of this order.  
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   November 6,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            