 Case Number:  24STCV14245    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 6, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Michael J. Williams v. Aaron Leider, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV14245
 





















 
MOTION
TO LIFT STAY OF DISCOVERY AS TO LIMITED ISSUES 
CONCERNING
ANTI-SLAPP MOTION



 
MOVING PARTY:              Plaintiff Michael J. Williams
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:
 Defendants Aaron Leider and Jane Garrison
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This is a defamation case.  Plaintiff Michael J. Williams (Williams or
Plaintiff) is an attorney.  Brad Prescott
(Prescott), a wealthy person who supports environmental causes, is Williams’s
client.  Over the years, Prescott has
donated substantial time and money to preservation projects advanced by the
Oswit Land Trust (Oswit).  Oswit is an
environmental nonprofit organization whose central mission is to preserve and
restore wildlife areas in the Palm Springs region.  Jane Garrison (Garrison) and Aaron Leider
(Leider) (collectively, Defendants) are Oswit’s CEO and CFO, respectively.  
 
In July 2022, Prescott helped fund Oswit’s purchase of the
Mesquite Country Club, now known as the Prescott Preserve.  In August 2022, the Mesquite Homeowners
Association (HOA) sued Oswit concerning that purchase (the Mesquite Action).  The lawsuit is ongoing.  Although not a party to the Mesquite Action,
Prescott has been involved in that lawsuit by funding Oswit’s defense and
participating through his attorney, Williams. 
 
The parties engaged in settlement discussions in the
Mesquite Action.  In October 2023,
Williams intended to attach a proposed response to the HOA’s settlement
proposal to an email but instead attached a draft amendment to Prescott’s
Living Trust.  Williams inadvertently provided
Garrison and Leider with a copy of the trust document.  Williams notified Garrison and Leider of the
inadvertent disclosure and asked them to delete the document.  Garrison, however,  reviewed the document and later asked an
estate attorney to review it. 
 
In January 2024, Prescott’s representatives notified Defendants
that Prescott would not provide Oswit with funding to acquire another
conservation project.  In response, Defendants
made derogatory remarks about Williams for purportedly pressuring the client to
withdraw the funding.
 
In February 2024, Garrison dined with Prescott and his
sister.  At the dinner, Garrison allegedly
told Prescott that his attorney, Williams, “was not trustworthy, called into
question Williams’s professional conduct and the adequacy of his performance as
a fiduciary to [Prescott], and claimed that these assertions were being
supported by an attorney Defendants had retained to review and analyze the
inadvertently disclosed draft Trust Document.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 24.)  Defendants
have not disclosed the identity of the attorney whom they retained. 
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants for (1) Defamation, (2) Interference with Contract, and (3) Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage.
 
On August 30, 2024, Defendants filed a Special Motion to
Strike the Complaint (SLAPP Suit) or, In the Alternative, Portions of The
Complaint Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16 and For an Order
Dismissing the Complaint with Prejudice. 
The Anti-SLAPP Motion is scheduled for January 31, 2025.
 
On the same day, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Lift Stay of
Discovery As To Limited Issues Concerning Anti-SLAPP Motion.  
 
On October 18, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.
 
On October 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (g),
provides “[a]ll discovery proceedings in [an] action shall be stayed upon the
filing of a notice of motion made pursuant to” Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16. Such stay “shall remain in effect until notice of entry of the order
ruling on the motion,” but the Court, “on noticed motion and for good cause
shown, may order that specified discovery be conducted notwithstanding this
subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (g).)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
Plaintiff moves the court for an order to lift the stay of
discovery to permit Plaintiff to obtain Defendants’ responses to the following
previously propounded discovery: (1) Special Interrogatories Nos. 1-10, (2) Requests
for Admission Nos. 7 and 10, and (3) Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.  Plaintiff
also seeks to take Defendants’ depositions. 
Plaintiff argues this discovery is necessary to ascertain the following:
 
(1) the
identity of and communications with the “estate attorney” referenced in
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion for purposes of substantiating the falsity
element of his defamation cause of action; 
 
(2) whether
Garrison was seriously considering filing a lawsuit against Plaintiff on
February 8 for purposes of rebutting Defendants’ claim of privilege under Civil
Code section 47(b); 
 
(3) whether
Defendants harbored ill will toward Plaintiff on February 8 for purposes of
rebutting Defendants’ claim of privilege under Civil Code section 47(c); 
 
(4) whether
Garrison intended to cause a disruption of Plaintiff’s business relationship
with Prescott for purposes of substantiating the intent element of his
interference causes of action; and 
 
(5) whether
Garrison intended to aid the “estate attorney” in allegedly violating
California Rules of Professional Conduct 4.4 for purposes of substantiating the
independently wrongful conduct element of his interference causes of action.
 
            The court
finds good cause exists to lift the stay. 
In their anti-SLAPP motion, Defendants argue, in part, that Garrison’s
statements are (1) nonactionable opinions, (2) truthful, (3) protected by the
litigation privilege because Garrison “seriously contemplat[ed] litigation, and
(4) protected by the common interest privilege based on Garrison, Prescott, and
Prescott’s sister’s common interest in Oswit and its environmental mission.  Accordingly, the information Plaintiff seeks
is tailored to meet Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion to determine if Garrison
actually consulted an attorney, the nature of the information Garrison shared with
the attorney (i.e., was it accurate or misleading?), and whether the allegedly
defamatory statements were made in contemplation of imminent litigation and
made with ill will such that neither the litigation[1]
or common interest[2]
privileges apply.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Lift Stay of Discovery As To Limited Issues Concerning Anti-SLAPP
Motion is GRANTED.   Plaintiff may obtain
the requested discovery.  Defendants’ depositions
are not to exceed three hours and are limited to the topics related to the anti-SLAPP
motion.
 
The court sets a Status Conference Re: anti-SLAPP Discovery
for January 10, 2024 at 9:00 AM.  The
court will discuss discovery issues, if any, at the conference.  Unless otherwise indicated, the opposition
and reply papers regarding Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion are to be served and
filed consistent with Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b).
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   November 6,
2024                                      




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


