  Case Number:  24STCV05772    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 6, 2024                                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Howard Scott Jordan II, et al. v. Irina Ioana Ciochiu, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV05772
 





















 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION OF COURT’SORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS’MOTION FOR ORDER
ALLOWING SUBSTITUTE OR ALTERNATIVE
SERVICE



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiffs Howard Scott Jordan II and FlightHelp, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants Irina Ioana Ciochiu, International Flight Help                                                                                     Management, Inc., FlightHelp, LLC
 
 
I.         INTRODUCTION
 
            This action
arises from a dispute between former business partners.  Plaintiff Howard Scott Jordan II (Jordan) has
extensive knowledge in intellectual property, coding, and marketing.  In November 2022, Defendant Irina Ioana
Ciochiu (Irina) engaged Jordan to work with her and Wynn Capital Management SRL
(Wynn).  Wynn is engaged in the business
of making claims on airport consumers’ behalf in connection with flight delays
and other issues stemming from airline travel. 
Wynn, a Romanian company, is owned by Ion Theodor Ciochiu (Ion).
 
According to Plaintiff, based on Irina’s false
representations that she owns Wynn’s equity, he agreed to enter into a partnership
with Irina.  Jordan and Irina agreed
that, in exchange for Jordan’s contribution to coding and marketing, he would
receive a 49% interest in Wynn’s revenues and profits.  As a means to carry out the partnership Jordan
and Irina created FlightHelp LLC (FlightHelp). 
During the partnership, Jordan contributed services, purchased software,
and helped to develop intellectual property to increase Wynn’s revenue.  
 
The partnership proved fruitful.  Consumer claims totaled over $22,000,000 by
the end of Summer 2023.  Irina embarked
on a scheme to sever Jordan from the partnership, which included but was not
limited to refusing to pay any of Jordan’s development invoices, salary, or
distributions from Wynn’s operations. 
Further, Irina locked Jordan out of any and all Wynn/FlightHelp-related
accounts and depleted FlightHelp’s bank accounts without Jordan’s authorization
or consent.
 
On March 7, 2024, Jordan and FlightHelp (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against Defendants Irina, Ion, Wynn, and
Does 1-20 alleging causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach of fiduciary
duty, (3) conversion, (4) breach of partnership agreement, (5) unfair
competition, (6) violations of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. (7)
partnership dissolution (Corp. Code § 16801), (8) violations of Penal Code §
496, (9) accounting, and (10) breach of contract.  Plaintiffs later filed amendments to the
complaint naming International Flight Help Management, Inc. (IFHM) as Doe 1 and
Flight Help Management, LLC (FHM) as Doe 2.
 
On May 13, 2024, Wynn filed a motion to quash service of
summons and complaint.  Ion filed a
declaration in support of the motion to quash. 
Ion has not appeared in this action.
 
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion For Order
Authorizing Service by Facebook, or Alternatively, Finding General Appearance
Has Been Made By Defendant Ion Theodor Ciochiu, or Finding Substitute Service
May Be Effectuated (Motion for Alternative Service).  The court denied the Motion for Alternative
Service on September 18, 2024.
 
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion for
Reconsideration of Court’s Order Denying Plaintiffs’ Motion for Order Allowing
Substitute or Alternative Service.
 
On October 24, 2024, Irina, IFHM, and FlightHelp, LLC
(hereafter, Defendants) filed an opposition.
 
On October 30, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).) 
“A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory explanation
for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time. [Citation.]” 
(New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206,
212.)  A motion for reconsideration is properly denied where it is
based on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the
original motion.  (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460.)           
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants object to the Declaration of Marius Mateescu.  (See Opp., pp. 2-3.)  The objection is OVERRULED.
 
B.    
Analysis 
 
Plaintiffs base this motion on new and different facts which,
despite diligent efforts, could not be presented at the time the Motion for
Alternative Service was filed. 
Specifically, Plaintiffs explain learning only recently that Ion
executed a form of a special power of attorney granting Irina authority to
control Ion’s affairs.
 
The court is not persuaded the special power of attorney is
a “new or different fact” which warrants reconsideration of the September 18,
2024, order.  “The nature of the task delegated in a power of attorney
itself provides a limit on the powers to be implied. An agent operating under a
power of attorney may not go beyond it nor beside it, though it is competent
for [the agent] to perform all such subordinate acts as are usually incident to
or necessary to effectuate the object expressed. In order to bind the principal
in such case, it must appear that the act done by the agent was in the exercise
of the power delegated, and within its limits. Put another way, an implied
power must be within the ultimate objective of the principal. The question is
whether the agent was engaged strictly in an endeavor to bring about a result
for which his services were engaged.  General
words in powers of attorney are always limited by the express purposes of the
power such that we have said if an agency may be fully performed without an
unenumerated power, that power will not be viewed as within the agent's
purview. To be implied, a power would have to be in pursuit of the said service
identified in the power of attorney.”  (Harrod
v. Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 939, 961 (cleaned
up).)  “A person who is authorized to perform one function on
behalf of a principal may have no authority at all regarding a different
function. In particular, the fact that a person is authorized to receive mail
on behalf of a corporation and to sign receipts acknowledging the delivery of that
mail does not mean that the same person is authorized by the corporation to
accept service of process.” (Dill v. Berquist Constr. Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1438.)
 
Here, the special power of attorney empowers Irina in the
following ways:
 
-         
“[T]o act on [Ion’s] behalf and
represent [him] before state authorities, control bodies, legal entities and
individuals,” in connection with Wynn.
 
-         
For the purpose of fulfilling this
mandate, [Ion’s] representatives [Irina and Geo] will carry out all operations
related to [Wynn], including managing the company's bank accounts (deposit and
withdrawal of money, payment orders, signing checks, settling balances, etc.)”
 
-         
“[Irina and Geo] will be able to
represent [Ion] before any court of law, of any degree, making any request or
statement on my behalf, administering evidence, challenging court decisions
that are not final, or enforcing a final Decision.”
 
-         
[Irina and Geo] are also authorized
to sign on my behalf and for me any additional acts regarding [Wynn], such as
increasing the share capital, establishing secondary offices or new points of
work and activity, adopting decisions within the company's board, managing and
cashing any amount of money, from any company or individual, they can sign
lease agreements, loan agreements, employment contracts, commercial contracts
for the good conduct of the company's activity and collaboration contracts with
material suppliers necessary for the company's activity, my representatives
having full powers to establish the price, conditions, and terms of the
contracts…and will be responsible to the authorities in the case of defective
administration or in case of prejudice to the company.”
 
Missing from this list of enumerated powers is Irinia’s
authorization to accept service on Ion’s behalf.  “General words in powers of attorney are always limited by the express
purposes of the power such that we have said if an agency may be fully
performed without an unenumerated power, that power will not be viewed as
within the agent's purview. To be implied, a power would have to be in pursuit
of the said service identified in the power of attorney.”  (Harrod, supra,
15 Cal.5th at p. 961 (cleaned up).)  Moreover,
Plaintiffs do not point to any powers granted to Irina which would require her
to accept service on Ion’s behalf in order to fully perform the agency. 
 
IV.         CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
Defendants to give notice, unless waived.
 
 
Dated:   November 6,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            