 Case Number:  BC695119    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YUKA TAMURA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ESTELLE
   CAMPBELL, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  BC695119
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   11, 2024




 


)


 



 
On November 15, 2024, defendants
Estelle Campbell and Studios at Walnut, LLC (“Campbell Defendants”) filed this
motion for a determination of good faith of the settlement between plaintiff
Yuka Tamura (“Plaintiff”) and De Miranda Management (“De Miranda”) reached
during the trial whereupon Plaintiff would enter into a full release of all
claims against De Miranda in exchange for payment by De Miranda of an
undisclosed amount. 
The Campbell Defendants request that
this Court order that: 
1. the settlement between Plaintiff and
De Miranda is found to be in good faith within the meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 877 and 877.6, and satisfies the requirements of Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 15 488; 
2. the amount of the settlement between
Plaintiff and De Miranda be disclosed in the interest of justice;
3. all present and future claims
against the Campbell Defendants, “including any claims which have been, or
could have been brought, in this action or any of the related actions, are
hereby dismissed with prejudice”; 
4. all present and future claims,
complaints, and cross-complaints by De Miranda against the Campbell Defendants
are dismissed with prejudice and forever barred, and that their liability for
all such claims are forever extinguished.
There are several issues presented by
the Campbell Defendants’ motion. 
First, the Court was informed, by way
of Plaintiff’s ex parte application filed on December 4, 2024, and heard on
December 5, 2024, that a condition precedent to the settlement between the
Plaintiff and De Miranda had not yet been fulfilled. More significantly, as of
December 5, 2024, the Court was informed that Plaintiff had not signed, and in
fact was refusing to sign, the release documents agreed upon with De Miranda,
and De Miranda, therefore, had not released the settlement payment to Plaintiff.
The Court is unaware of any change in that impasse, and the docket contains no dismissal
of De Miranda by Plaintiff. If Plaintiff and De Miranda have not agreed upon a
settlement, then this motion would be moot. 
Nonetheless, for the sake of a full
discussion of the issues presented by this motion, assuming the Plaintiff-De
Miranda settlement agreement provides for a payment to Plaintiff by De Miranda
of more than the $21,000 awarded to Plaintiff by the jury, the Campbell
Defendants ask the Court to find the settlement to be in good faith. That said,
the Campbell Defendants also seek an order forcing the disclosure of the full settlement
amount, and not merely whether it was more than $21,000. That is requested is
made “in the interest of justice” without any further explanation of necessity.
Even if there were a valid settlement agreement
between De Miranda and Plaintiff, that agreement would not affect the Campbell
Defendants’ potential liability to any other party, except possibly a joint
tortfeasor. The language of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 makes clear
that a finding of good faith “shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor. . . for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6.) As
applied to this case, a determination of good faith would shield De Miranda
from any future claims for indemnity or contribution from the Campbell Defendants
(or other joint tortfeasors) based on comparative negligence or comparative
fault because the settlement was reached before judgment or verdict. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 877, 877.6.) It does not operate, however, to protect the Campbell
Defendants from Plaintiff’s claims and it is not clear to the Court on what authority
the Campbell Defendants rely for the fourth request in their motion. 
If the Campbell Defendants are arguing
that the settlement amount reached between Plaintiff and De Miranda either
partially or completely offsets the jury verdict of $21,000, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 877 so that the judgment should be modified
accordingly, that is a different (and possibly premature) issue given that no
settlement appears to have been reached. Also, the process for determining an
offset in order to ensure that Plaintiff does not enjoy a double recovery is to
compel Plaintiff to execute an acknowledgement or partial acknowledgement of
satisfaction of judgment per Code of Civil Procedure section 724.110. (Jhaveri
v. Teitelbaum (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 740, 753-755.) In determining whether
a settlement offsets a judgment, Code of Civil Procedure section 877 only
requires that a nonsettling defendant prove that the settling codefendants were
“claimed to be liable for the same tort,” not that they were in fact
liable.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877; Poire
v. C.L. Peck/Jones Brothers Construction Corp. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1832,
1837-1841; Knox v. County of Los Angeles (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 825, 831.)
However, because the existence of a settlement agreement is in question, there does
not appear to be a settlement amount that can offset the jury’s verdict. 
Based on the foregoing, the motion for
determination of good faith settlement is DENIED. 
 
 
Dated
this 11th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 