  Case Number:  23AHCV02553    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ELIZABETH DIAZ PEREZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR CO.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02553
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
   REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   12, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Elizabeth Diaz Perez
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling defendant American Honda Motor Co.
(“Defendant”) to serve further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two, Nos. 1 through 78. Plaintiff alleges that on March 26,
2022, she purchased a 2022 Acura TLX (“Subject Vehicle”), which subsequently
exhibited defects and nonconformities, including electrical, structural,
transmission, and suspension system defects. (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 10.) 
The Court issued a tentative ruling and,
after hearing oral argument on November 15, 2024, continued the hearing so that
the parties could file supplemental briefs regarding RFP Nos. 18, 41, and 64.
Supplemental briefs were filed on November 20 and November 22, 2024. The Court
addresses these three requests separately below. 
RFP Nos. 1 through 9
RFP Nos. 1, 7, and 8 demand documents
relating to Defendant’s policies, procedures, guidelines, or documents used in
determining whether a vehicle is eligible for a vehicle repurchase under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act. Defendant has already provided a Code-compliant response
because it states that it has made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in
an effort to comply with these requests and but that no responsive document
have ever existed in their possession, custody, or control. Defendant states
that determinations to repurchase or replace vehicles under the Act “are
evaluated in good faith on a case-by-case basis.”  The Court cannot compel Defendant to produce
documents that do not exist. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel a
further response to RFP Nos. 1, 7 and 8 is DENIED. 
RFP No. 9 demands all documents
reflecting Defendant’s plans, policies, procedures, programs, or measures,
since 2011, for “achieving any of [its] warranty buyback reduction goals.” Defendant
asserted various objections on the grounds of relevance and that Plaintiff fails
to describe with reasonable particularity the documents or categories of
documents sought. These objections lack merit because any documents, policies,
and procedures related to Defendant’s obligations under the Song-Beverly Act
are relevant to determining whether Defendant is subject to a civil penalty for
willfully failing to repurchase or replace Plaintiff’s vehicle. Therefore, the
motion is GRANTED as to RFP No. 9. 
RFP No. 2 demands “All DOCUMENTS
regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE that are within [Defendant’s] Customer Relations
Center.” Defendant objects to this demand as duplicative of Plaintiff’s RFP No.
1, to which it previously provided a response. Plaintiff does not address this
argument. Accordingly, the motion to compel is DENIED as to RFP No. 2. 
RFP No. 3 demands documents regarding “any
service, warranty, and other DOCUMENTS that relate to, or may relate to, the
alleged defect in the SUBJECT VEHICLE, that [Defendant] issued to any dealer,
regional or zone offices, fleet purchasers, or other entities.” This request is
overly broad and does not define the term “alleged defect”. It is also vaguely
unintelligible as phrased. The motion is DENIED as to RFP No. 3.
RFP No. 4 requests Defendant’s recall
policy and procedure but Plaintiff fails to establish good cause for the
production of these documents as there are no facts showing that Defendant’s
recall policies and procedure are at issue. The motion is DENIED as to RFP No.
4. 
For RFP No. 5, Plaintiff demands all
documents, including live telephone call records, audio records, tape
recordings, voice messaging records, caller message recordings, digital voice
recordings, interactive voice response unit (IVR/VRV) recordings, unified
messaging files, and computer-based voice mail files between Defendant and its
authorized dealers regarding the subject vehicle. Defendant states it is unable
to comply with this request as no responsive documents have ever existed. As
for Plaintiff’s request for telephone call recordings, Defendant states that
even if they existed at one point, they have been discarded in the ordinary
course of business and no longer exist. Therefore, the response is already
Code-compliant and there is no further response needed. The motion is DENIED as
to RFP No. 5. 
RFP No. 6 requests Defendant’s document
retention policy from 2011 to the present, including retention policies for
electronic data communications. Defendant has already agreed to produce all
responsive documents, including its document retention policy, in whole. Therefore,
the motion is DENIED as to RFP No. 6.  
RFP Nos. 10 through 32
Plaintiff claims that her RFP Nos. 10
through 32 pertain to Defendant´s internal investigations of the “Electrical Defects”
exhibited in the subject vehicle. The term “Electrical Defects” is defined as “such
defects which result in symptoms including: defects leading to battery
replacement; defects resulting in defective master lighting control unit;
defects requiring the replacement of master lighting control unit; defects
causing front window to not respond to window switch; defects causing a
defective master window switch; defects causing window switch to intermittently
not send power through the switch; defects causing an inoperative puddle light;
defects leading to driver’s side puddle light replacement; defects resulting
interior lighting strip not illuminating; defects requiring master lighting
control unit to be replaced; defects causing the fuel indicator to malfunction;
defects causing A/C to not blow cold air; and/or other similar concerns identified
in the repair history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” Even if Plaintiff crafted this
definition using Defendant’s repair orders, it exceeds the scope of the defects
alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint, which are limited to an “inoperative driver
side puddle light”, a light strip that would not turn on, and the driver’s and
passenger’s side windows’ failure to respond when using the driver’s control
switch. (Compl., ¶¶ 13-16.) There is no allegation about the battery or air
conditioning. 
Furthermore, in response to RFP Nos. 10
to 14, 16, 22-25, 27-30, 32, Defendant states that no responsive documents have
ever existed. Plaintiff argues that this claim is disingenuous but provides no
evidence for her assertion. (Reply, pp. 1-2.) Plaintiff claims that investigations
are required before technical service bulletins are issued, but there is no
evidence that any TSBs have been issued for Plaintiff’s alleged defects.
Plaintiff also refers to an investigation opened by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, but that investigation concerns the “Forward
Collision Avoidance System”, which is unrelated to any of the alleged defects
with Plaintiff’s vehicle. Also, for RFP No. 19, Defendant has already agreed to
produce TREAD warranty submissions. Therefore, the motion is DENIED as to RFP
Nos. 10-14, 16, 19, 22-25, 27-30, and 32. 
Next, documents relating to complaints
from other customers or agencies, as sought in RFP Nos. 15, 17, 20, 21, and 26 are
discoverable insofar as they are complaints about the same defects alleged by
Plaintiff in her Complaint in vehicles of the same year, make, and model, sold
in California. Therefore, a further response is ordered from Defendant for RFP
Nos. 15, 17, 20-21, and 26, in accordance with those limitations. No emails
need to be searched or produced. 
Plaintiff’s RFP No. 31 is overbroad and
unintelligible in requesting all documents “related to any electronic mail . .
. .which in any way relate to ELECTRICAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.” The motion to compel is DENIED as to
RFP No. 31. 
RFP Nos. 33 through 55
RFP Nos. 33 through 55 relate to “STRUCTURAL
DEFECTS”, which is defined as “defects which result in symptoms including:
defects causing center console leather cover to wrinkle; defects leading to the
replacement of the center console cover; defects requiring chips on passenger
side rear door to be painted: and/or other similar concerns identified in the
repair history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” Like Plaintiff’s definition of
“Electrical Defect”, the term “Structural Defect” is far too broad and includes
symptoms which were not alleged in her Complaint. Plaintiff only alleges that
her Subject Vehicle “presented defects relating to cosmetic damage to the
center console.” Therefore, defects relating to paint are irrelevant, as is
Plaintiff’s “catch-all” term for “other similar concerns” identified in the
Subject Vehicle’s repair history. 
Defendant stated it was unable to
comply with RFP Nos. 33 through 37, 39, 45-48, 50-53, and 55 because no
responsive documents exist. No further response is required and the motion is
DENIED as to these RFPs. 
As for RFP Nos. 38, 40, 43, 44, and 49,
the motion is GRANTED in part and the Court reiterates that customer complaints,
internal investigations, internal analyses, and reports are discoverable
insofar as they are complaints about the same defects alleged by Plaintiff in
her Complaint in vehicles of the same year, make, and model, sold in
California. No emails need to be searched or produced.
The motion is DENIED as to RFP No. 54
because it is overbroad and unintelligible like RFP No. 31. The motion is also
DENIED as to RFP No. 42 because Defendant has agreed to produce TREAD warranty
submissions. 
RFP Nos. 56 through 78
This last category of RFPs relates to “TRANSMISSION
DEFECTS”, which is defined to include “defects causing a popping noise when
placing the vehicle in reverse; defects causing clunking sound when shifting
gears from park to reverse/drive; and/or other similar concerns identified in
the repair history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” 
The motion is DENIED as to RFP Nos. 56-60,
62, 68-71, 73-76, and 78 because Defendant has already provided a
Code-compliant response by stating it is unable to comply since no responsive
documents have ever existed.  The motion
is DENIED as to RFP No. 77 because it is overbroad and unintelligible like RFP
Nos. 31 and 54. The motion is also DENIED as to RFP No. 65 because Defendant
has agreed to produce TREAD warranty submissions. 
As for RFP Nos. 61, 63, 66, 67, 72, the
motion to compel a further response is GRANTED in part so that customer
complaints, internal investigations, internal analyses, and reports are
discoverable insofar as they are complaints about the same defects alleged by
Plaintiff in her Complaint in vehicles of the same year, make, and model, sold
in California. No emails need to be searched or produced.
RFP Nos. 18, 41, and 64
These three RFPs request “All
DOCUMENTS, including electronically stored information and electronic mails
[sic], concerning, referring, or relating to any Early Warning Reports (“EWR”)
complaints [sic]” regarding the defined Electrical, Structural, and
Transmission defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
Subject Vehicle. 
In its tentative ruling, the Court
denied the motion to compel a further response to these three requests because
Defendant agreed to produce TREAD warranty submissions for 2022 Acura TLX
vehicles. In Plaintiff’s supplemental brief, Plaintiff argues that TREAD
warranty submissions are “not responsive” to these requests because they
“merely reflect the number of warranty claims Defendant has received from its
authorized repair facilities related to a specific component.” (Supp. Br., p. 1.)
Plaintiff argues that these three requests seek “other consumer complaints”
which are required to be submitted to NHTSA on a quarterly basis and defined in
49 C.F.R. § 579.4 as: 
[A] communication of any kind made by a consumer (or other
person) to or with a manufacturer addressed to the company, an officer thereof
or an entity thereof that handles consumer matters, a manufacturer website that
receives consumer complaints, a manufacturer electronic mail system that
receives such information at the corporate level, or that are otherwise
received by a unit within the manufacturer that receives consumer inquiries or
complaints, including telephonic complaints, expressing dissatisfaction with a
product, or relating the unsatisfactory performance of a product, or any actual
or potential defect in a product, or any event that allegedly was caused by any
actual or potential defect in a product, but not including a claim of any kind
or a notice involving a fatality or injury”
 
Plaintiff argues that TREAD warranty
submissions are not responsive to RFP Nos. 18, 41, and 64, but neither are the
“consumer complaints” based on the definition Plaintiff provides because the
definition does not even mention “Early Warning Reports” (nor does Plaintiff
include any discussion of the “‘Early Warning Reports’ complaints [sic]” demanded).
Nevertheless, the Court grasps the general point, which is that TREAD warranty
submissions are a separate category of documents from EWRs.
Defendant argues that RFP Nos. 18, 41,
and 64 are duplicative because Plaintiff will already be provided with other
consumer complaints. However, EWRs are submitted to the NHTSA, and are
therefore different from complaints submitted by consumers. But if Defendant actually
contends that the documents and information sought are the same as those
contained in other customer complaints, then there is no valid objection to
serving further responses and producing documents regarding the Subject
Vehicle’s defects and symptoms as experienced by other customers with 2022
Acura TLX vehicles. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED in part as to RFP Nos. 9, 15, 17-18, 20-21, 26, 32, 38, 40-41,
43-44, 49, 61, 63-64, 66-67, and 72. The motion is otherwise denied. No
sanctions are imposed. 
Dated
this 11th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.