 Case Number:  21STCV19741    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Monday, October 16,
2023
Case Name:                            Pappas v. Namazikhah
DMD, Inc., et al.
Case No.:                                21STCV19741
Motion:                                  Motion to
Quash Subpoena for Plaintiff’s Tax Records, or, in the Alternative, Motion for
a Protective Order
Moving Party:                         Defendants M.S.
Namazikhah Inc. and Essential Endodontics Inc. (“Defendants”)
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Kosmas Pappas
(“Plaintiff”)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Defendants’
Motion to Quash is GRANTED. Defendants’ Motion, in the Alternative, for a
Protective Order is MOOT.
 
Defendants to give
notice.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On July 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
operative FAC against multiple defendants, including Robert Hindin (“Hindin”), M.S.
Namazikhah D.M.D., A Dental Corporation (“PC1”), Namazikhah DMD, Inc. (“PC2”), and
Essential Endodontics, Inc. (“GC3”). (FAC, ¶¶ 2-4 and FN 1-2.) 
            The FAC arises out of alleged efforts
to defraud Plaintiff and to hinder or delay Plaintiff from collecting on a
stipulated judgment (“Judgment”) in his favor and against PC1, PC2, and others
in LASC Case No. BC457138.  It alleges
that, as part of those efforts, PC1’s principal filed a petition for bankruptcy
of PC1 and transferred PC1’s assets to GC3 without fair and adequate
consideration. According to the FAC, Hindin “is a lawyer . . . who upon
information and believe [sic] for times relevant provided legal services to Namazikhah,
PC1, PC2 and GC3.” (FAC, ¶5.)
            The FAC asserts the following six
causes of action: (1) to set aside fraudulent transfer of property; (2) damages
for fraudulent transfer; (3) declaratory relief; (4) judicial foreclosure; (5)
appointment of a receiver; and (6) accounting. 
            On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff issued
a subpoena to RNFR LLP.
            On August 8, 2023, Defendants
informed Plaintiff that they planned to object to the subpoena and maintained
confidentiality. 
            On August 9, 2023, Defendants filed
the instant motion to quash or, in the alternative, motion for a protective
order, along with a separate statement detailing the items in dispute. 
            On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. 
            On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a notice of errata regarding its opposition and filed a new opposition
containing exhibits that had been omitted in the October 3, 2023 opposition. 
            On October 12, 2023, Defendants
filed a reply. The reply is late as it was filed two court days before the
hearing. 
DISCUSSION
MOTION
TO QUASH
Legal
Standard
A
deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance and testimony of a
deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the
attendance and testimony, as well as the production of business records.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  The court, upon motion or the court’s own
motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.  In
addition, the court may make any other orders as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)          
California Code section 1985.3(g) states, “Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records.” 
The Court must “balance the public need
against the weight of the privacy right” and only serious invasions of privacy
will bar discovery.  (Crab Addison, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.)  There is not an egregious invasion of privacy
every time there is a request for private information and courts must “place
the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent
and seriousness of the prospective invasion.” 
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
Items in Dispute
The following records have been requested
from accountant RNFR LLP:
1. All DOCUMENTS, ESI, and COMMUNICATIONS
REGARDING the books and records for [Essential Endodontics] from inception to
the present.
2. All DOCUMENTS, ESI, and COMMUNICATIONS
REGARDING the books and records for [M.S. Namazikhah] from inception of YOUR
relationship to the present.
3. The general ledger for [Essential
Endodontics] from inception to the present to the present.
4. The general ledger for [M.S.
Namazikhah] from inception of YOUR relationship to the present.
5. All tax returns for [Essential
Endodontics] from inception to the present to the present. 
6. All tax returns for [M.S. Namazikhah]
from inception of YOUR relationship to the present.
7. The federal income tax returns of [Essential
Endodontics] including client provided data from inception to present.
8. The federal income tax returns of [M.S.
Namazikhah] including client provided data from inception to present.
Defendants contend these records are
shielded from disclosure 1) by the tax privilege, 2) pursuant to CCP § 1985.3(g), and 3) by
privacy considerations. The Court analyzes each in turn below. 
Tax
Privilege
            Defendants contend that the records
sought by the subpoena on RNFR LLP are shielded from disclosure under the tax
privilege. 
The “privilege against forced disclosure of tax returns has been
reaffirmed in a variety of situations by both this court and the courts of
appeal.” (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal. 4th 704, 720.) “The
effect of the statutory prohibition is to render the returns privileged, and
the privilege should not be nullified by permitting third parties to obtain the
information by adopting the indirect procedure of demanding copies of the tax
returns.” (Id.) (see also Sammut v. Sammut, (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d
557, 560.) However, “[t]he privilege is waived or does not apply in three
situations: “(1) there is an intentional relinquishment [citation], (2) the
'gravamen of [the] lawsuit is so inconsistent with the continued assertion of
the taxpayer's privilege as to compel the conclusion that the privilege has in
fact been waived' [citation], or (3) a public policy greater than that of
confidentiality of tax returns is involved [citation].” (Id. at 721.)
The tax privilege is judicially created rule and, as such, it is for the courts
to interpret the meaning and construe the applicability of a “judicially
created rule.” (Rodriguez v. Bethlehem Steel Corp. (1974) 12 Cal.3d 382,
395.) 
Here, as Plaintiff seeks the federal and state tax records of
Defendants, the records qualify to be shielded by the taxpayer privilege.
            Plaintiff, in turn, does not deny the privileged status
of the records sought, but contends that Defendants have waived their tax
privilege by producing the prior three years of returns (2017-2019) at deposition
after filing the instant motion. Plaintiff relies on Wilson v. Superior
Court and Weingarten v. Superior Court. 
In Wilson, the court held that the plaintiff waived the tax
privilege by filing a malpractice lawsuit against her accountant in which she raised
issues as to the existence, content and tax consequences of her returns. (Wilson
v. Superior Court (1976) 63 Cal.App.3d 825,829.) Here, unlike in Wilson,
it is Defendants who seek to assert the tax privilege. Defendants are not the
party who put their financial information in dispute. Therefore, Wilson
is not on point. 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendants are attempting to hide
relevant information behind the tax privilege. In Weingarten, the court
held that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ordering disclosure
of the defendant's tax returns because the defendant had refused to produce
relevant nonprivileged financial documents. (Weingarten v. Superior Court
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 268.) Specifically, prior to trial, the defendant had
failed to produce relevant financial information, even after the court ordered the
defendant to identify all witnesses and documents regarding her financial
condition to permit plaintiffs to obtain necessary information in the event of
a punitive damages finding. (Id. at 271.) After the verdict was entered
against defendant, the plaintiff sought defendant’s tax returns, among other
financial documents, in an effort to obtain the necessary information to
calculate damages. (Ibid.) The defendant subsequently objected, asserting
the tax privilege. (Ibid.) In upholding the trial court’s ruling that
defendant had waived the tax privilege, the Weingarten court held that a
party cannot "hide behind the tax return privilege to ensure no relevant
information would be revealed." (Ibid.) 
Here, Plaintiff contends that Defendants are attempting to hide
their tax returns similarly to the defendant in Weingarten. Plaintiff states
that Defendants claim they have no general ledgers and no financial statements
and essentially give their bank statements to their accountant, RNFR
LLP, to prepare their
returns. Plaintiff contends that the tax returns include income, expenses and a
balance sheet and are therefore relevant to determining the continued value of
Essential Endodontics. Therefore, Plaintiff contends that Defendants seek to
hide relevant information by asserting the tax privilege. 
However, the circumstances that led the Court of Appeal in Weingarten
to find a waiver of the tax privilege are significantly different than the
circumstances here. The Weingarten Court explained that “this case
involves a trial court's discretionary authority to order the production of tax
returns when a defendant who has been found to have acted with malice and
fraud, has sole control of his or her financial records and is refusing to
produce relevant nonprivileged documents.” (Id. at 275.) Here, there is
no evidence that Defendants have acted with malice and fraud or are refusing to
produce nonprivileged documents. Therefore, the three elements of the holding
in Weingarten are not present. 
Plaintiff further contends that there is no less intrusive way to
obtain the information sought-Defendants’ income, expenses and assets-because
there are no general ledgers. However, Plaintiff cites to no cases to support
this contention, stating only that “Other courts have similarly found that a
party cannot refuse to produce the tax returns where the information sought is
critical to requesting party's claim or defense.” (Opposition, p. 6, l. 5-7.)
The Weingarten Court affirmed the public’s substantial interest
underlying the tax privilege: to incentivize the taxpayer to make full and
truthful declarations in his or her return without fear the statements will be
revealed or used against him or her. (Ibid.) The court held that the
privilege survived even where the information sought by the subject discovery
request is clearly relevant to the action: “the fact that a complaint contains
a punitive damages allegation or a fact finder has found a basis for imposing
punitive damages does not, standing alone, constitute a basis for compelling
the disclosure of tax return information.” (Ibid.) 
Accordingly, the Court here finds no basis to invalidate the
taxpayer privilege here. Plaintiff submits no authority to show that
Defendants’ production of certain records in discovery constitutes a waiver of
their right to assert the taxpayer privilege with respect to other relevant
records.  
§ 1985.3(g) – Consumer
Protection
            Defendants separately bring the motion to quash under §
1985.3(g). However, according to the plain language of the statute, only
consumer-parties are permitted to bring a motion to quash under this provision.
Therefore, as Defendants are corporations and not consumers, § 1985.3(g)
provides no avenue for them to bring a motion to quash. 
Request for Monetary
Sanctions
            Defendants move for monetary sanctions pursuant to § 1987.2(a),
which allows a party moving to quash to seek reasonable attorney’s fees where
the motion was “opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or
that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (C.C.P. §
1987.2(a).) However, Defendants do not show that their motion was opposed in
bad faith or without substantial justification. Therefore, the Court declines
to award monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. 
 
MOTION, IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
            Defendants’ motion for a protective
order is MOOT.

CONCLUSION
Defendants’
motion to quash is GRANTED.
Defendants’
motion, in the alternative, for a protective order is MOOT.
Defendants
to give notice.      
 