  Case Number:  21STCV14961    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Monday, October 16, 2023
Case Name:                            Quinones, et al.
v. Kia Motors America, Inc.
Case No.:                                21STCV14961            
Motion:                                  Relieved As
Counsel
Moving Party:                         Strategic Legal
Practices, APC, counsel for plaintiff Monica Quinones (“Plaintiff”)                
Responding Party:                  None
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                           The Relieved as
Counsel Motion is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff to give
notice.

 

 
DISCUSSION
Strategic Legal Practices, APC
(“Counsel”), seeks to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff Monica Quinones
(“Plaintiff”). 
Counsel requests to be relieved as counsel
because in June, 2023, Counsel discovered a disabling conflict that cannot be
waived that has led to a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship such
that Counsel cannot continue representation.  “[W]here as here counsel maintains he must
step down because of a disabling conflict, the conflict concededly involves
privileged communications and the trial court admittedly accepts counsel's
representations, the court may not deny the motion to withdraw.”  (Aceves v. Superior Court (1996) 51
Cal.App.4th 584, 596.) Under Aceves, the Court finds that good cause
exists to grant Counsel’s request.
In addition, Counsel has complied with the
mandatory requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. Counsel
submitted the required notice on Form MC-051, declaration on Form MC-052, and
proposed order on Form MC-053. Counsel also served Plaintiff at her last known
address with copies of the motion papers. Although Counsel was unable to confirm
that Plaintiff’s address is current or locate a more current address, Counsel
made the following efforts to confirm the address: mailing the motion papers to
the client's last known address, return receipt requested, calling the client's
last known telephone number or numbers, calling the client's last known
telephone number or numbers (specifically, Cheryl Miller, who reported the same
address and phone number Counsel had on file for Quinones), and emailing the
last known email address. Service was also made on Defendant, the other party
in this action. Therefore, service was sufficient. 
Accordingly, as all of the requirements
have been met, the Court GRANTS Strategic Legal Practices, APC’s motion to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Monica Quinones. 
 
 
Plaintiff to give
notice.
 
            
 