 Case Number:  21STCV46538    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  30 EZEQUIEL SANTOS vs MIRIAM LEBENTALTENTATIVEDefendant’s motion to compel an additional independent medical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to submit to an additional duly noticed IME with Dr. Lederhaus. Moving party to give notice. Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2032.220(a) provides:In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:(1)¿The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.(2)¿The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.CCP section 2031.310 states:(a)¿If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with¿Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.(b)¿A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under¿Section 2016.040.(c)¿Notice of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.CCP section 2032.320(a) provides: “The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under¿Section 2032.310¿only for good cause shown.”¿“Section 2036 defines a showing of ‘good cause’ as requiring that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior. Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation. (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.) Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” (See Vinson v.Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837 [wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer].) Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff. (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)DiscussionDefendant seeks to compel Plaintiff to undergo a second independent medical examination (IME) with neurosurgeon Dr. Scott Lederhaus, M.D. Plaintiff has already undergone an IME with neurologist Dr. Ludwig. Dr. Ludwig examined and evaluated Plaintiff regarding his head injury complaints and indications in his medical records that he was experiencing post concussive symptoms. However, Defendant contends there is good cause to compel Plaintiff to submit to the IME with neurosurgeon Dr. Lederhaus because Plaintiff has directly placed his neurological and spinal condition in controversy. In addition to claiming a head injury, Plaintiff is claiming significant injuries to his spine including persistent neck and back pain since the accident occurred nearly four years ago. Plaintiff also alleges he has been advised he is a candidate for a spinal cord stimulator. (Laughhead Decl., Ex. A: Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories No. 6.7.) Alleged spinal injuries and claims for future spinal surgery are outside Dr. Lugwig’s area of expertise and require the expertise of a spinal surgeon or neurosurgeon such as Dr. Lederhaus.Moreover, Plaintiff has also treated with and been evaluated by spinal surgeons, and a neurologist for his injuries he alleges were caused by the accident. (Id., No. 6.4.)Defendant adequately articulated that the neurologist examined Plaintiff concerning his complaints relating to his head injury complaints. Defendant wishes to have Plaintiff examined by a neurosurgeon concerning his complaints relating to his spinal injuries and his need for a spinal cord stimulator, or surgery. Plaintiff does not, in opposition to the motion, deny suffering from these conditions or attributing the conditions to the accident. He argues Defendant’s prior expert already examined him as to his neck and back injuries. However, a neurologist cannot make any recommendations as to Plaintiff’s need for surgery, as he does not perform surgery. It is clear that these two examinations are different in nature.In addition, Plaintiff will have an advantage in relying on medical records or expert testimony from a range of doctors who have examined the full breadth of his injuries. The Court cannot simultaneously limit Defendant from having access to similar evidence.As a result, the Court finds there is good cause to compel Plaintiff to submit to an additional IME with Dr. Lederhaus. The motion is granted.