 Case Number:  24CHCV01588    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  F51  OCTOBER 9,  2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV01588    Demurrer filed: 6/11/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Toque Nuevo Beauty, LLC  (“Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Nadia Samir (“Plaintiff”)   NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs against Plaintiff’s entire complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30  days leave to amend. Moving Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted.   BACKGROUND    This is a premises  liability action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 2/12/23, she was walking  towards Moving Defendant’s business, located at 1111 San Fernando Road, San  Fernando, California 91340, “and upon stepping onto the small step of the  entrance, Mrs. Samir slipped and violently fell and hit her head on the metal  frame of the entry door.” (Compl. pp. 4–5.) On 4/26/24, Plaintiff filed her  complaint against Moving Defendant and the property owner, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) General Negligence; and (2) Premises Liability.   On 6/11/24, Moving Defendant filed  the instant demurrer. On 9/25/24, Plaintiff filed her opposition thereto. No  reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   Moving Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the basis that Plaintiff fails¿to  allege facts sufficient to state either cause of action.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that on 5/29/24, he met  and conferred in writing with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the issues raised  in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to an informal  resolution. (Decl. of Norman Gregory ¶¶ 3–4.) Therefore, the Court finds that  counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements under the  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41.   B.      Negligence   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges General Negligence against Defendants. To state a  claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the  existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)  “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC  (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here, Moving  Defendant argues that “Plaintiff failed completely and entirely to allege  ultimate charging allegations or ultimate facts related to negligence.” (Dem.  3:23–24.) “There are no facts showing that any of the defendants acts or  omissions to act negligently caused plaintiff’s injuries.” (Id. at  3:26–27.)   Plaintiff  argues in reply that “as the owner and operator of a beauty salon open to the  public, Defendant TOQUE NUEVO clearly owed a certain duty of care to its  invitees and lawful entrants, including Plaintiff, to maintain its premises in  a reasonably safe condition that is free of any potential hazards.” (Pl.’s Opp.  7:26–8:1.) Plaintiff further asserts that “the very occurrence of such an  incident on a step at the entrance, where dozens of customers enter on a daily  basis, suggests that Defendant TOQUE NUEVO failed to maintain its entryway in a  reasonably safe condition to prevent foreseeable harm to visitors.” (Id. at  8:2–5.)   However,  the Court finds that these conclusions are not alleged as facts in Plaintiff’s  complaint. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to  allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Negligence.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first cause of  action.   C.     Premises Liability   “The  elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for  negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Jones v. Awad (2019)  39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207.) “Premises liability is grounded in the possession  of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner  v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)   Here, Moving  Defendant argues that “the plaintiff only put the defendant’s name and address,  and did not describe whatsoever any facts which articulate the acts or  omissions which would cause defendant to be liable” for premises liability.  (Dem. 7:18–19.) “Plaintiff’s complaint is utterly deficient for cause of action  number two; it literally alleges no facts in the cause of action, as to how the  defendant can be liable, where the form required them to do so.” (Id. at  7:22–24.)   Plaintiff  argues in reply that “Defendant TOQUE NUEVO owed a duty of care to Plaintiff as  a business invitee.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:14–15.) Plaintiff therefore asserts that she  “has sufficiently alleged that Defendant TOQUE NUEVO exercised control over the  entrance portion of the premises and either created or allowed the existence of  a dangerous condition therein.” (Id. at 9:26–28.)   The Court disagrees  and finds that nowhere in the complaint does Plaintiff allege that she was an  invitee of Moving Defendant’s business, nor that Moving Defendant was owned or  otherwise possessed the subject premises. Instead, Plaintiff explicitly alleges  that she was injured while “walking towards” Moving Defendant’s business.  (Compl. p. 4.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Premises Liability. Accordingly,  the Court sustains the demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action.   D.     Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).¿    Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiff’s original  complaint, and that Plaintiff requests leave to amend her complaint “to allege  additional detail including, but not limited to, the specific nature of the  dangerous condition on the premises and the manner in which Defendant TOQUE  NUEVO breached its duty of care in safely maintaining the premises and keeping  it free of any potential hazards.” (Pl.’s Opp. 10:15–18.) Accordingly, under  the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the Court grants  Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth  above.    CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend.