 Case Number:  23STCP04453    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 11, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         MARIYA WRIGHTSMAN
v. THE CITY OF GARDENA 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCP04453
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner Mariya Wrightsman
(“Petitioner”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Respondent
The City of Gardena
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 22, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 8, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed April 9, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Petitioner moves for a
preliminary injunction prohibiting Respondent from enforcing Ordinances Numbers
1854 and 1856.         
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This claim arises out of Petitioner Mariya
Wrightsman’s (“Petitioner”) claim that the City of Gardena’s (“Respondent” or
“the City”) ordinance is unlawful. Petitioner filed this petition on December
11, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Petitioner’s motion for a preliminary injunction is
DENIED.
 
            The hearing
on the demurrer is ordered CONTINUED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, subdivision
(a), provides: 
An injunction may be granted in the following cases: [¶] (1) When it appears by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. [¶] (2) When it appears by the complaint or
affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation
would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the action. [¶] (3) When it appears, during the litigation, that
a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the rights of
another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and tending
to render the judgment ineffectual. [¶] (4) When pecuniary
compensation would not afford adequate relief. [¶] (5) Where it
would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief. [¶] (6) Where the restraint is
necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. [¶] (7) Where the obligation arises from a trust.
DISCUSSION
 
            Demurrer with Motion to strike 
 
            In opposition to the City’s demurrer
with motion to strike, Petitioner filed five separate documents. Petitioner
provides that the documents should be read sequentially. However, Petitioner’s
filings violate California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113, subdivision (d), which
provides in part that “[e]xcept in a summary judgment or summary adjudication
motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages.” Petitioner’s
filings, as sequentially listed, are twelve (12) pages, 229 pages for the
requests for judicial notice, seventeen (17) pages, twenty-three (23) pages,
and twenty (20) pages long.
 
            Petitioner’s
deficient opposition make it untenable for the court to attempt to follow
Petitioner’s arguments. The hearing on the demurrer is ordered continued. Petitioner
is ordered to file appropriate oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike
nine days prior to the continued hearing date. Petitioner is not allowed leave
to file a longer memorandum. If Petitioner fails to submit an appropriate
opposition, the court will disregard every page after the allowed 15th page. 
 
            Motion for
Preliminary Injunction 
 
            Petitioner moves for a preliminary
injunction prohibiting Respondent from enforcing Ordinance numbers 1854 and
1856. The City of Gardena Ordinance 1854 prohibit “[s]hort term rentals and
home sharing rentals . . . in every Specific Plan zone in the city.” (Gardena
Ordinance 1854 § 18.06.020.) Ordinance 1856 amends Gardena’s Municipal Code relating to
accessory dwelling units. 
 
            “A trial court may grant a
preliminary injunction upon a showing that (1) the party seeking the injunction
is likely to prevail on the merits at trial, and (2) the ‘interim harm’ to that
party if an injunction is denied is greater than ‘the [interim] harm the
[opposing party] is likely to suffer if the ... injunction is issued.’
[citation.] These two showings operate on a sliding scale: ‘[T]he more likely
it is that [the party seeking the injunction] will ultimately prevail, the less
severe must be the harm that they allege will occur if the injunction does not
issue.’ [citation.] ” (Integrated Dynamic Solutions, Inc. v. VitaVet Labs,
Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1183.) 
 
            Likelihood
of Success on the Merits
 
            In support
of her claim that she is likely to prevail on the merits, Petitioner contends
that the subject ordinances are invalid because they are preempted by state
laws. Petitioner specifically contend that the ordinances are preempted by
Civil Code section 1947.
 
Pursuant to
article XI, section 7 of the California Constitution, “[a] county or city may
make and enforce within its limits all local, police, sanitary, and other
ordinances and regulations not in conflict with general laws.” “If otherwise
valid local legislation conflicts with state law, it is preempted by such law
and is void. [Citations.] A conflict exists if the local legislation ‘
“duplicates, contradicts, or enters an area fully occupied by general law,
either expressly or by legislative implication.” ’ ” (Candid Enterprises,
Inc. v. Grossmont Union High School Dist. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 878, 885.)
 
“Local
legislation is ‘duplicative’ of general law when it is coextensive therewith.”
(Sherwin-Williams Co. v. City of Los Angeles (1993) 4 Cal.4th 893, 897.)
“Similarly, local legislation is ‘contradictory’ to general law when it is
inimical thereto.” (Id. at p. 898.) “Finally, local legislation enters
an area that is ‘fully occupied’ by general law when the Legislature has
expressly manifested its intent to ‘fully occupy’ the area . . ..” (Ibid.)
 
Civil Code
section 1947 provides: “When there is no usage or contract to the contrary,
rents are payable at the termination of the holding, when it does not exceed
one year. If the holding is by the day, week, month, quarter, or year, rent is
payable at the termination of the respective periods, as it successively
becomes due.”
 
Petitioner has
failed to establish any reason that Civil Code section 1947 preempts the City
of Gardena’s ordinances. The law neither evinces a legislative intent to fully
occupy the issue of rental agreements nor is the law duplicative of the subject
ordinances. Further, section 1947 does not provide Petitioner a statutory right
to collect rent so as to be contradictory to Respondent’s ordinances. Petitioner’s
argument in reply that because other sections in the same chapter as section
1947 contain express language excluding preemption, the court should read an
implicit intent to preempt is not supported by any legal authority or statutory
interpretations. “ ‘We presume the Legislature intended everything in a
statutory scheme, and we do not read statutes to omit expressed language or to
include omitted language.’ ” (Citibank, N.A. v. Tabalon (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th Supp. 16, 20.) Stated another way, the fact that Civil Code section
1947.13, subdivision (e), includes an express intent not to preempt local law
does not in any way, shape, or form, support Petitioner’s claim that preemption
should be read into section 1947.
 
Petitioner’s
reliance on Agnew v. City of Los Angeles (1958) 51 Cal.2d 1, is
unavailing. In Agnew, the Court held that the state had “occupied the
field of licensing electrical contractors”. (Id. at p. 6.) Unlike Agnew,
here there is no indication that section 1947, or any other argument
submitted by Petitioner, establishes statewide preemption of rental
regulations. Petitioner has failed to demonstrate a likelihood of success on
the merits of her claims.
 
Irreparable
Injury
 
In her short argument on the point, Petitioner contends
that she would suffer irreparable injury based on the ordinances prohibiting
her from issuing short-term rentals for her property. However, it appears that
Petitioner’s claim is limited to monetary losses. “It would appear
an irreparable injury is one for which either (1) its pecuniary value is not
susceptible to monetary valuation, or (2) the item is so unique its loss
deprives the possessor of intrinsic values not replaceable by money or in
kind.” (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 454, 457.) Petitioner fails to demonstrate any level of irreparable
injury. Petitioner further fails to provide evidence or argument in support of
even her claim that she is currently experiencing monetary losses.
 
Petitioner also
fails to add any discussion regarding the balance of harm, namely the
extent of harm Respondent may face if an order prohibiting its implantation of
an ordinance is issued. Thus, Petitioner has failed to demonstrate that the
balance of harm weighs in her favor. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Petitioner’s motion for a preliminary injunction is
DENIED.
 
            The hearing
on the demurrer is ordered CONTINUED.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 11, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



