 Case Number:  23AHCV01945    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 11, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         MARIA AYALA v.
7-ELEVEN, INC., MNG CAP 1 SWEAT, LLC, NASCENT CORPORATION, and DOES 1 to 25,
inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01945
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant 7-Eleven, Inc.
(“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Maria Ayala
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 23, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 28, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed.  
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to its form interrogatories. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Maria
Ayala’s (“Plaintiff”) claim she tripped and fell at Defendants’ premises on
August 25, 2021. Plaintiff filed this complaint on August 24, 2023, alleging
two causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) premises liability.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to its form
interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses
within twenty (20) days of the date of this order.
 
All requests for sanctions are denied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Defendant moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to its form interrogatories.
Defendant provides that Plaintiff provided deficient responses to its form
interrogatories on December 15, 2023. (Anderson Decl. ¶ 2.) In opposition, Plaintiff contends that
Defendant failed to properly meet and confer prior to filing this motion. In
particular, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant failed to comply with Rule 3.31.
However, it appears that Plaintiff may have cited Rule 3.31 applicable to
courts in the County of Alameda. The court turns to the specific discovery
requests at issue.
 
            Form
Interrogatory No. 8.2: State: (a) the nature of your work; (b) your job
title at the time of the INCIDENT; and (c) the date your employment began. 
 
            Form Interrogatory No. 8.3: State the last date before the INCIDENT that you worked for
compensation. 
 
Form Interrogatory No. 8.4: State your monthly
income at the time of the INCIDENT and how the amount was calculated.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 8.5: State the date you
returned to work at each place of employment following the INCIDENT.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 8.6: State
the dates you did not work and for which you lost income as a result of the
INCIDENT.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 8.7: State
the total income you have lost to date as a result of the INCIDENT and how the
amount was calculated.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 8.8: Will
you lose income in the future as a result of the INCIDENT? If so, state: (a)
the facts upon which you base this contention; (b) an estimate of the amount;
(c) an estimate of how long you will be unable to work; and (d) how the claim
for future income is calculated.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 11.1: Except
for this action, in the past 10 years have you filed an action or made a
written claim or demand for compensation for your personal injuries? If so, for
each action, claim, or demand state: (a) the date, time, and place and location
(closest street ADDRESS or intersection) of the INCIDENT giving rise to the
action, claim, or demand; (b) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each
PERSON against whom the claim or demand was made or the action filed; (c) the
court, names of the parties, and case number of any action filed; (d) the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of any attorney representing you; (e) whether the
claim or action has been resolved or is pending; and (f) a description of the
injury.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to its form
interrogatories is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses
to form interrogatories numbers 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8, and 11.1.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to its form
interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses
within twenty (20) days of the date of this order.
 
All requests for sanctions are denied.
 
Moving Party to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 11, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


