  Case Number:  22BBCV00741    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 11, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         BRIAN WHITAKER v.
JASJIT K. BISLA, in individual and representative capacity as Trustee of The
Bisla Family Trust, under trust instrument dated October 6, 2004; SATINDER S.
BISLA, in individual and representative capacity as Trustee of The Bisla Family
Trust, under trust instrument dated October 6, 2004; and Pinkberry, Inc., a
California corporation. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22BBCV00741
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER SETTING ASIDE ORDER FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Counsel Manuel Eli Gonzalez,
counsel of record for Defendant Pinkberry, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Brian Whitaker
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 2, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 27, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed March 28, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Counsel moves to set aside this
court’s order imposing $3,000 in sanctions against him. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff’s claims
that Defendants failed to comply with disability access laws and denied him
full access, services, and privileges to their facility. Plaintiff filed this
complaint on October 11, 2022. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s counsel’s motion to set aside the order imposing
sanctions is DENIED. The sanction total is reduced from $3,000 to $2,000.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (b).)
 
“When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd.
(a).
 
DISCUSSION
 
            On
August 14, 2023, a request for dismissal was entered dismissing the entire
action with prejudice. On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to set
aside dismissal and stated that Defendants’ counsel had filed the request for
dismissal with Plaintiff’s counsel’s signature. On November 3, 2023, this court
held a hearing for the motion to set aside dismissal. Defendant’s counsel
failed to appear for the hearing. At the hearing, this court scheduled an order
to show cause for December 12, 2023, regarding sanctions for the improperly
filed dismissal. At the December 12, 2023, hearing on the order to show cause,
Defendant’s counsel again failed to appear, and this court sanctioned him
$3,000.
 
             Defendant’s counsel now moves for
reconsideration of the order or an order setting aside the previous order. Defendant’s
counsel contends that sanctions should not be imposed on him because he
mistakenly filed the request for dismissal and failed to appear for the
December 12, 2023, hearing because he was improperly notified.
 
            Defendant’s
counsel provides that he had received a signed request for dismissal and
thought Plaintiff had intended to dismiss his clients. (



Gonzalez Decl. ¶¶
3-4.) In opposition, Plaintiff contends that the signed dismissal was for
another case and that a document error had caused the form to be sent with only
the signature filled out. Additionally, the proof of electronic service was
served to efi3glaw@q-mail.com. However, Defendant’s counsel provides that his
email is eli3glaw@gmail.com. (Gonzolez Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
            It
appears that Defendant’s counsel was not properly notified of the order to show
cause. Nonetheless, Defendant took a signed request for dismissal form, assumed
it was for his clients, filled the form out, and submitted it, necessitating
the following hearings. Defendant’s counsels action are neither reasonable nor
constitute excusable neglect. However, based on the lack of notice, the
sanctions imposed against Defendant’s counsel is reduced to $2,000.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s counsel’s motion to set aside the order imposing
sanctions is DENIED. The sanction total is reduced from $3,000 to $2,000.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 11, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court