 Case Number:  22STCV09349    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




lynn klecka

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
farmers group, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV09349




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  motion for a protective order and for sanctions
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to compel plaintiff’s attendance at mental examination
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and
Farmers New World Life Insurance Company          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Lynn Klecka
(1)  
Motion
for Protective Order and for Sanctions
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Mental Examination
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies defendants
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company’s request for judicial notice because rulings from other Superior
Court departments are neither binding on this court nor can be considered as
persuasive authority and are therefore irrelevant.  (Harrott v. County of Kings (2001) 25
Cal.4th 1138, 1148 [“Trial court decisions are not precedents binding on other
courts under the principle of stare decisis”]; Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v.
Able Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1668 [“‘[a] written trial court
ruling has no precedential value’”].) 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER AND
SANCTIONS
Defendants Farmers Group,
Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance
Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance
Company (“Defendants”) move the court for an order (1) issuing a protective
order (i) relieving Defendants and any witness served with a deposition notice
by plaintiff Lynn Klecka (“Plaintiff”) from responding to, objecting to, or
producing documents to those requests, (ii) permitting Plaintiff to identify
100 document requests or other number the court determines is reasonable to
which Defendants will respond within 30 days, and (iii) requiring Plaintiff to
obtain leave of court before propounding any other document requests on
Defendants or affiliated witness, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor
of Defendants and against Plaintiff in the amount of $3,000.
First, as a threshold matter,
the court notes that Plaintiff has taken issue with the meet and confer process
in her opposition.  The court finds that
Defendants have submitted a declaration that satisfies the meet and confer
requirement because (1) counsel for Defendants sent a letter to Plaintiff’s
counsel regarding the Requests for Production of Documents on August 16, 2024,
in which, inter alia, Defendants (i) asserted that the discovery
propounded was unduly burdensome and expensive, and (ii) stated that, if counsel
for Plaintiff wished to meet and confer, counsel could contact Defendants’
counsel, which shows that Defendants contacted Plaintiff to make a good faith
attempt to resolve the issues with this discovery, and (2) counsel for
Defendants thereafter followed up with Plaintiff’s remaining attorney to meet
and confer, but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond.  (Palmer Decl., ¶ 2 and Ex. A; Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2016.040 [meet and confer requirements], 2017.020, subd. (a),
2019.030, subd. (b).) 
Second, for the reasons set
forth below, the court finds that (1) the discovery served on Defendants by
Plaintiff (i.e., the Requests for Production of Documents and Notices of
Deposition) is unduly burdensome taking into account the needs of this case,
the amount in controversy, and the importance of issues at stake in the
litigation, and (2) the burden of the discovery clearly outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2019.030,
subd. (a)(2), 2017.020, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff served her first set
of Requests for Production of Documents on each of the six moving defendants,
each of which contained 70 requests for production, therefore amounting to a
total of 420 requests.  (Palmer Decl., ¶
3 and Ex. B.)  Plaintiff’s second set of
Requests for Production of Documents, served on defendants Farmers Insurance
Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century
Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company, contained an
additional 173 requests.  (Palmer Decl.,
¶ 4 and Ex. C.)  The second set of
Requests for Production of Documents served on defendant Farmers Group, Inc.
contained an additional 196 requests. 
(Palmer Decl., ¶ 5 and Ex. D.) 
Thereafter, Plaintiff served
her third set of Requests for Production of Documents on defendant Farmers New
World Life Insurance Company, which contained an additional 12 requests.  (Palmer Decl., ¶ 6 and Ex. E.)  The third set of Requests for Production of
Documents served on defendant Farmers Group, Inc. contained an additional 54
requests.  (Palmer Decl., ¶ 7 and Ex.
F.)  Plaintiff also served on defendant
Farmers Group, Inc. her fourth set of Requests for Production of Documents,
which contained 72 more requests. 
(Palmer Decl., ¶ 8 and Ex. G.) 
Thus, Plaintiff has served (1)
defendant Farmers Group, Inc. with a total of 392 Requests for Production of
Documents, (2) defendants Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange,
Truck Insurance Exchange, and Mid-Century Insurance Company with a total of 244
Requests for Production of Documents each, and (3) defendant Farmers New World
Life Insurance Company with a total of 255 Requests for Production of
Documents.  (Palmer Decl., ¶¶ 3-8.) 
Plaintiff has also served a
number of document requests in connection with various notices of
deposition.  For example, Plaintiff’s
Notice of Deposition to defendant Farmers Group, Inc.’s person most qualified
contains 285 document requests.  (Palmer
Decl., ¶ 10 and Ex. H.)  Plaintiff’s
Amended Notice of Deposition to deponent Bill Matlock contains 70 document
requests.  (Palmer Decl., ¶ 13 and Ex.
K.)  Plaintiff’s Amended Notice of
Deposition to deponent Zoltan Nagy contains 78 document requests.  (Palmer Decl., ¶ 16 and Ex. N.) 
The court finds that the
discovery described above is unduly burdensome on Defendants and their
affiliated witnesses and that the burden of that discovery clearly outweighs
the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  The court further
finds that Plaintiff has not shown, in her opposition, that this discovery is
not unduly burdensome, or has otherwise justified the amount of discovery
served on Defendants and their affiliated witnesses.  The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion
for a protective order.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2019.030, subd. (a), 2017.020, subd. (a).) 
The court will issue a
protective order that (1) Defendants are not required to respond to any
Requests for Production of Documents served on them by Plaintiff, (2) defendant
Farmers Group, Inc. is not required to produce any documents in response to
Plaintiff’s Notices of Deposition of its Person Most Qualified, and (3)
Defendants and their affiliated witnesses shall not be required to produce documents
responsive to Plaintiff’s Notices of Deposition of those witnesses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2019.030, subd. (a),
2017.020, subd. (a).)  
The court will further order
that Plaintiff shall be permitted (1) to serve on Defendants revised sets of Requests
for Production of Documents on Defendants with a reasonable number of requests,
not to exceed 50 requests per defendant, and (2) to serve revised Notices of
Deposition on Defendants and their affiliated witnesses with a reasonable
number of document demands, not to exceed 35 requests per deponent. 
            The court grants Defendants’ request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2019.030, subd. (c), 2017.020, subd. (b).)  The court finds that $3,000 (7.6 hours x $395
per hour) is a reasonable amount of sanctions to impose against Plaintiff in
connection with this motion.  (Palmer
Decl., ¶ 24.)
 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S ATTENDANCE
AT MENTAL EXAMINATION
Defendants move the court for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit
to a mental examination to be conducted by Teri M. Pokrajac, Psy.D.
“Any party may obtain discovery, subject to the restrictions set forth
in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by means of a physical or
mental examination of . . . a party to the action . . . in any action in which
the mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of that party or
other person is in controversy in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.020, subd. (a).)  If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
mental examination, the party must obtain leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.310, subd. (a).)  “To protect the plaintiff’s privacy interests
from unnecessary intrusion, the mental examination may be ordered only upon a
showing of good cause.”  (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 259; Code Civ. Proc., §¿2032.320, subd. (a) [“The court shall
grant a motion for physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only
for good cause shown”].) 
First, the court finds that Defendants have submitted a declaration
that satisfies the meet and confer requirement. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2032.310, subd. (b), 2016.040; Palmer Decl., ¶¶ 4-5
and Exs. D-E.) 
Second, the court finds that Defendants have sufficiently specified
the manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the
identity of the person who will perform the examination (i.e., Dr.
Pokrajac).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (b); Palmer Decl., ¶ 1; Mot., p. 5:8-22; Dr. Pokrajac Decl., ¶¶ 3 [scope
of exam shall be limited to Plaintiff’s claims for non-economic damages], 4
[Dr. Pokrajac will (i) conduct oral examination which will include Plaintiff’s
full past history, demographic details, current complaints for which she might
seek care, the history of her illness including her subjective experience, (ii)
make inquiries necessary for a full mental status evaluation of Plaintiff’s
moods, thought processes and thought content, and (iii) select and administer
the following written or computer administered tests: Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory-2, Trauma Symptom Inventory, Million Clinical Multiaxial
Inventory, Personality Assessment Inventory, Dissociative Experience Scale-II,
Clinician Administered PTSD Scale 5, Rorschach, and Mini-Mental State Exam
2].)  
Third, the court finds that Defendants have shown good cause to compel
Plaintiff’s attendance at a mental examination because Plaintiff has stated, in
her discovery responses, that she “attributes injuries to her mental,
emotional, and physical wellbeing as a result of Defendants[’] termination[,]”
and that her “overall wellbeing decreased as a result of Defendant’s
termination, and [she] experiences loss of sleep, depression, anxiety, loss of
her career, self-esteem, humiliation, sadness, low energy, loss of appetite,
and continuous crying.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a); Palmer Decl., Ex. C, Pl. Responses to Def. Form
Interrogatories, pp. 11:24-28, 12:16-22; Vinson v. Superior Court (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 839-840 [concluding that the plaintiff’s mental state was in
controversy since plaintiff alleging that defendants caused her various mental
and emotional ailments].) 
Fourth, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to
show good cause to require Plaintiff to travel 89 miles to attend the mental
examination and therefore orders that the mental examination shall be conducted
remotely, at the election of Defendants. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (e)(1) [“If the place of examination
is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order
to submit to it shall be entered only if both the following conditions are
satisfied: [¶] (1) The court determines that there is good cause for the travel
involved”]; Reply, p. 4:20-21 [requesting, in the alternative, that the
examination be conducted remotely].) 
Finally, the court notes that Plaintiff has requested an order that
she be permitted to record the examination. 
(Opp., p. 3:4-6.)  Because
Plaintiff is already authorized to record the examination by audio technology,
the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that such a court order is
necessary.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.530,
subd. (a) [“The examiner and the examinee shall have the right to record a
mental examination by audio technology”].) 

The court grants Plaintiff’s request that (1) the examination
be limited to 7 hours with a break for lunch that is at least 1/3 of an hour,
and (2) Plaintiff be permitted to take breaks as reasonably required.  (Opp., p. 3:4-6; Reply, p. 5:6-7 and Palmer
Reply Decl., ¶ 2 [stating that Defendants do not object to these
requests].)  The court also grants
Plaintiff’s request that the medial records and reports will be subject to the
Stipulated Protective Order entered into by the parties in this action.[1]  (Opp., p. 3:6-7; Reply, p. 5:7-9 and Palmer Reply
Decl., ¶ 3 [Defendants do not object to this request].) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers
Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange,
Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company’s
motion for a protective order as follows. 
Defendants Farmers Group,
Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance
Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance
Company are not required to serve responses or produce documents responsive to
any Requests for Production of Documents that plaintiff Lynn Klecka has served
on them as of December 11, 2024. 
            The
court orders that plaintiff Lynn Klecka may serve on defendants Farmers Group,
Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance
Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance
Company a reasonable number of Requests for Production of Documents pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq., not to exceed 50 requests per
defendant. 
            The
court orders that defendant Farmers Group, Inc. shall not be required to respond
to, object to, or produce documents responsive to (1) “Plaintiff Lynn Klecka’s
Amended Notice of Videotaped Deposition of Person Most Qualified at Farmers
Group, Inc. and Request for Production of Documents,” served on it by plaintiff
Lynn Klecka on July 16, 2024, as attached to the declaration of Eric J. Palmer
filed on September 11, 2024 as Exhibit H, and (2) “Plaintiff Lynn Klecka’s
Notice of Videotaped Deposition of Person Most Qualified at Farmers Group, Inc.
and Request for Production of Documents,” served on it by plaintiff Lynn Klecka
on July 3, 2024, as attached to the declaration of Eric J. Palmer filed on
September 11, 2024 as Exhibit J.  The
court orders that plaintiff Lynn Klecka may serve amended Notices of
Deposition on defendant Farmers Group,
Inc.’s person most qualified that include no more than 35 requests for
production of documents as to each deponent. 
The court orders that deponents Chris Prester, Bill Matlock, Kirk
Parker, Michael Lin, and Zoltan M. Nagy shall not be required to respond to,
object to, or produce documents responsive to, the Notices of Deposition served
on them by plaintiff Lynn Klecka, as attached to the declaration of Eric J. Palmer filed on September 11, 2024 as
Exhibits I, K, L, M, and N.  The court
orders that plaintiff Lynn Klecka may serve amended Notices of Deposition on
those deponents that include no more than 35 requests for production of
documents as to each deponent. 
            The court orders plaintiff Lynn
Klecka to pay monetary sanctions to defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance
Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers
New World Life Insurance Company in the amount of $3,000 within 30 days of the
date of service of this order. 
            The court grants defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers
Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange,
Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company’s
motion to compel plaintiff’s attendance at a mental examination as follows. 
            The court orders that Teri M.
Pokrajac, Psy.D. shall conduct the mental examination of plaintiff Lynn Klecka
on January 30, 2025, to be conducted on a videoconferencing platform to be
selected by Teri M. Pokrajac, Psy.D., and to begin at 10:00 a.m. and to last no
more than 7 hours, excluding a lunch break of not less than 1/3 of an hour and other
reasonable breaks.  
            At the mental examination, Teri M.
Pokrajac, Psy.D. may (1) examine plaintiff Lynn Klecka regarding (i) her past
history, (ii) her demographic details, (iii) her current complaints for which
she might seek care, and (iv) the history of her illness including her
subjective experience of the events leading to psychological damages, (2) make
inquiries necessary for a full mental status evaluation of plaintiff Lynn
Klecka’s moods, thought processes, and thought content, and (3) may administer
the following written or computer administered tests: (i) Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory-2, (ii) Trauma Symptom Inventory, (iii) Million Clinical
Multiaxial Inventory, (iv) Personality Assessment Inventory, (v) Dissociative
Experience Scale-II, (v) Clinician Administered PTSD Scale 5, (vi) Rorschach,
and (vii) Mini-Mental State Exam 2.
The court orders that plaintiff Lynn Klecka’s medical records and the
reports of the examiner will be subject to the Stipulated Protective Order
entered into by the parties in this action.
            The court orders defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance
Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century
Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


