  Case Number:  23VECV03196    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  W SEAN ROSE v.
LOREN PROPERTIES, LLC, et al.
 
demurrer to the cross-complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 25, 2024                                              Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case No.:        23VECV03196
 
Moving Party:            Cross-Defendant
Sean Rose  
Responding Party:     Cross-Complainants
Loren Properties, LLC, Westside Habitats, LLC and John Patrick Graham
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff Sean Rose filed a complaint against
Loren Properties, LLC, Westside Habitats, LLC, Rohit Mehta, and John Patrick
Graham for negligence, premises liability, negligent hiring, supervision, or
retention of employee, battery, and assault. Plaintiff Rose alleges Plaintiff,
while standing within property he lawfully rented and controlled, was assaulted
by Defendant, John Patrick Graham, while Mr. Graham was working as an employee
on behalf of the other named Defendants. 
 
On December 8, 2023, Loren Properties, LLC, Westside Habitats,
LLC, and John Patrick Graham filed a Cross-Complaint against Rose for breach of
contract, assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
elder abuse. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Cross-Defendant Sean Rose’s Demurrer to
the Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
discussion
 
Cross-Defendant Sean Rose demurs to the
Cross-Complaint by Loren Properties, LLC, Westside Habitats, LLC and John
Patrick Graham on the grounds the complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to
support a cause of action for breach of contract, assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and elder abuse. Cross-Complainant Patrick
Graham oppose the demurrer and Cross-Complainants Loren Properties LLC and
Westside Habitats LLC join in opposition. 
 
Procedural Issues
 
Cross-Complainants oppose the demurrer
on many grounds including the demurrer is untimely and Cross-Defendant Rose did
not sufficiently meet and confer prior to filing the demurrer. 
 
First, the court notes no proof of
service has been filed but the summons was issued December 8, 2023 and the
demurrer was not filed until February 2, 2024.  Furthermore, the court notes that Cross-Defendant
was not granted an automatic thirty-day extension to file a responsive pleading
as no declaration has been submitted concerning his meet and confer
efforts.  (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) However,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1), the Court may still
consider a demurrer that is not timely. (Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 742, 749.)  Notably, (1)
Plaintiff failed to obtain a default judgment against Cross-Defendant and (2)
the court finds that Cross-Complainants are not substantially prejudiced by the
late demurrer.  Accordingly, the court
exercises its discretion to decide the demurrer on the merits.   
 
Next, the court agrees contacting the
pleading party the day before the moving party’s intention to file a demurer
does not necessarily demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP § 2016.040.) Moreover,
Section 430.41(a) requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in person or by
telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer…”
Cross-Defendant sent an e-mail. However, Section 430.41(a)(4) provides that any
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer.  In light of Cross-Complainants being able to
file an opposition, the court will proceed to address the merits of the
demurrer despite the insufficiency of the meet and confer.  
 
Breach of Contract
 
Cross-Defendant Rose demurs to the
first cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds Cross-Complainants
have failed to allege a crucial element of their claim for breach of contract –
damages. 
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)  “A breach of contract is not actionable without
damage.” (Bramalea California, Inc. v. Reliable Interiors, Inc. (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 468, 473.) 
 
Rose argues Cross-Complainants allege
that they “have been damaged, in an amount to be determined at trial.” (Cross-Complaint
¶16.) Rose contends this, however, does not provide a concise amount of damages
Cross-Complainants’ allegedly have suffered. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue
the Cross-Complaint alleges actual damages resulting from Cross-Defendant's
breach of the Lease Agreement. Looking at the Cross-Complaint as a whole, and
incorporating by reference Paragraphs 6-8, Cross-Complainant was damaged in the
amount of $39,940.00, which is the rent withheld by Cross-Defendant since
December 2020. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶7-8.) 
 
The court agrees the complaint
sufficiently alleges a claim for breach of contract. “In reviewing the
sufficiency of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by
long-settled rules. We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law. We also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. Further, we give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts
in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations
and internal quotation marks omitted.) Here, the complaint alleges
Cross-Defendant has an outstanding balance due and owing under the Lease in the
amount of $39,940.00 and although Loren Properties LLC and Westside Habitats
LLC repeatedly requested that Cross-Defendant pay his rental debt,
Cross-Defendant has refused to fulfill his contractual obligation to pay the
outstanding balance. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶7-8.) As a result of Cross-Defendant
failing to make all payments and perform all obligations due under the Lease,
Cross-Defendant breached the lease. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶14-15.) 
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer
to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Assault
 
Cross-Defendant Rose demurs to the
second cause of action for assault on the grounds Cross Plaintiffs’ cause of
action for assault is not properly pleaded.
 
“The essential elements of a cause of
action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive
manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a
harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to
defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.”  (Yun Hee So v. Sook
Ja Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69.)  
 
Rose argues here, Cross-Complainants’
fail to provide any factual allegations as to what Sean Rose did so that Mr.
Graham fear that he was going to be touched offensively. Rose contends it is
difficult to believe that he suffered a stroke when it was he who was arrested
and it was he filmed talking coherently to first responder.
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue
the Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges that Rose struck and punched Graham on
the face and head and pinned him to the ground. (Cross-Complaint ¶10.)
Moreover, the Cross-Complaint alleges Graham believed he was about to be
touched in a harmful or offensive manner. (Cross-Complaint ¶19.) The court
agrees this is sufficient to show assault on demurrer. The court further agrees
whether it is difficult to believe Graham suffered a stroke is not a basis for
a demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Battery
 
Cross-Defendant Rose demurs to the
third cause of action for battery on the grounds Cross-Complainants’ present
scant allegations supporting their cause of action.
 
“The essential elements of a cause of
action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to
be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not
consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching.”  (Yun Hee So v. Sook Ja Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 669.) 
 
Rose argues the allegations are devoid
of any facts showing that the alleged touching was done with any force. (See People
v. Mansfield (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 82, 88 [stating that touching must be
done with force, no matter how slight).] Again, the court disagrees. Reading
the Cross-Complaint as a whole, Cross-Complainants have alleged Rose struck,
pushed, and pinned down Graham which falls squarely into the first element for
battery. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Cross-Defendant Rose demurs to the
fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the
grounds Cross-Plaintiffs’ present scant allegations supporting their cause of
action. 
 
The elements for a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate
causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.  (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)   
 
Rose argues Cross-Complainants have failed
to provide and facts as to why or how the allegations actions were outrageous. Moreover,
all that is provided are vague statements of outrageous conduct. There is no
explanation as to what was done to Mr. Graham and how that conduct was intended
to cause him emotional injury. There is no explanation as to what exactly, and
why, such actions were beyond the pale such that the actions were outrageous.
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue
striking and punching on the face and head, and knocking and pinning an
individual to the ground, thereby causing facial and head bruising, lacerations
and a stroke, clearly amount to extreme and outrageous conduct. 
 
The court agrees, for the purposes of a
demurrer, Cross-Complainants have alleged facts sufficient to support a claim
for intentional infliction of emotional distress. The Cross-Complaint alleges
Rose struck, hit and pinned down Graham with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of, causing emotional distress. Moreover, Graham has
suffered as a result emotional distress as a result. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Elder Abuse 
 
Cross-Defendant Rose demurs to the
fifth cause of action for elder abuse on the grounds it is difficult to
determine what exactly Graham alleges in this cause of action. Graham fails to
cite any authority regarding a common law tort for Elder Abuse.
 
Cross-Defendant Rose argues presumably Graham
seeks to allege that Rose violated the 1991 Elder Abuse Act. If so, pursuant to
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, Graham must allege that Rose
engaged in recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malicious conduct. (See Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.) Here, there are no allegations of
these crucial elements.
 
“The Elder Abuse Act's heightened
remedies are available only in limited circumstances. A plaintiff must prove,
by clear and convincing evidence, that a defendant is liable for either physical
abuse under section 15610.63 or neglect under section 15610.57, and that the defendant
committed the abuse with ‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.’ ” (Winn
v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 156.)  Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.07
defines abuse of an elder to include “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment,
isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or
mental suffering. Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.63 provides a
list detailing what defines “physical abuse”. Under section 15610.63, assault
and battery are defined by their penal code definitions.  Thus, for purposes of the Elder Abuse Act,
assault “is an unlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a
violent injury on the person of another.” (Pen. Code § 240; Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.63(a).) Battery is defined as “any willful and unlawful use of
force or violence upon the person of another.” (Pen. Code § 242; Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15610.63(b).)
 
The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. Cross-Complainants have sufficiently
alleged physical abuse of an elder under Penal Code sections 240 and 242. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is OVERRULED. 