 Case Number:  23VECV03290    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  W ALEXANDER
GHATAN v. BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.
 
PLAINTIFF
ALEXANDER GHATAN’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER THAT THE TRUTH OF THE REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSION BE DEEMED ADMITTED BY DEFENDANT SHERMAN OAKS-B, INC. DBA BMW OF
SHERMAN OAKS
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 25, 2024                                 Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03290
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Alexander Ghatan 
Responding Party:     Defendant Sherman Oaks-B, Inc. dba BMW of
Sherman Oaks 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff Alexander
Ghatan filed a complaint against BMW of North America, LLC and Sherman Oaks-B,
Inc. dba BMW of Sherman Oaks for 1. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; 2. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty;
3. Violation of The Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2; and 4. Violation of The
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.22 – Tanner Consumer Protection Act.  Plaintiff leased a new 2020 BMW X5 xDrive 40i
from Defendants. Plaintiff alleges the Subject Vehicle was delivered to
Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed
other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not
limited to, a malfunctioning steering intervention, vehicle key detection
issues, and electrical system defects.
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint adding two additional causes of action for Negligent
Repair and Strict Liability – Design Defect as well as punitive damages as a
prayer for relief to this matter. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff Alexander Ghatan’s Motion for an Order that
the Truth of the Requests for Admission be Deemed Admitted by Defendant Sherman
Oaks-B, Inc. dba BMW of Sherman Oaks is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Alexander Ghatan moves for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One, propounded upon
Defendant Sherman Oaks-B, Inc. dba BMW of Sherman Oaks be deemed admitted, and
for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the sum of
$3,076.02. Ghatan makes the motion on the grounds that Defendant failed to
respond to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s motion should be denied as moot because Defendant already served
substantially compliant verified responses and document production. Given that
Defendant served its substantially compliant responses and verifications, there
is no prejudice to Plaintiff and it is clear his goal is solely to harass
Defendant and not to achieve any further purpose since he has already been in possession
of the discovery responses for almost three months now. 
 
The court finds the motion for an order that the truth of the requests for admission be
deemed admitted moot. If a party to whom request for admissions are served
fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was directed
waives any objections, including based on privilege or the work product
doctrine. (CCP § 2033.280(a).) The requesting party can move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. (CCP §
2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the
request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. (CCP § 2033.280(c).)
 
As Defendant has provided responses
prior to the hearing, the court finds it would run against the interests of
public policy to grant Plaintiffs’ motion as Defendant would suffer even when
serving a substantially compliant response per Code of Civil Procedure sections
2033.220, 2033.240, and 2033.280. 
 
Accordingly, because Defendant served a
response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion,
Plaintiff’s request for admissions, set one be deemed admitted is
DENIED.  
 
Sanctions
 
Sanctions are mandatory against the
party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to the
request necessitated the motion to deem request for admissions as admitted. (CCP
§ 2033.280(c); see also CRC Rule 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though
no opposition was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed).)
 
Plaintiff requests $3,076.02 in
monetary sanctions for Defendant’s failure to timely and properly respond to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One. 
 
In opposition, Defendant also requests
sanctions against Plaintiff for misusing the discovery process when he failed
to meet and confer in good faith prior to filing this motion, continuously
maintains the unreasonable position that he is entitled to proceed with his
motion without substantial justification, employs discovery tactics solely to
cause harassment and undue burden on BMW of Sherman Oaks, and brought the
present frivolous and meritless motion. 
 
The court denies both requests for
sanctions. 