 Case Number:  23STCV09503    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE                           
 
The Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.   
¿ 
Background
¿
On April 28, 2023,
Plaintiff Carlio Alburo (“Plaintiff”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
litem Dolores Alburo, filed his complaint against Defendants Los Angeles
Unified School District (“LAUSD”) and Does 1 through 20. 
 
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint (FAC) against the same defendants.  According to the FAC, on November 10, 2022, Plaintiff
attended a high school physics class at the Edward R. Roybal Learning Center and,
during an experiment, an explosion occurred that caused “severe bodily injury
to Plaintiff.”  (FAC, ¶¶ 5-7.)  The experiment was conducted at the direction
of, and under the supervision of, Plaintiff’s physics teacher.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.)  In the FAC, Plaintiff asserts the following causes
of action: (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Premises Liability; (4) Negligence;
(5) Gross Negligence; (6) Respondeat Superior; and (7) Negligent Hiring,
Retention, Training and Supervision. 
 
On August 15, 2023, LAUSD filed this Demurrer. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition on September 19, and LAUSD filed a reply on September 27. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer may be
brought when a party contends that a “pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  A
demurrer is used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not
be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿
 
Discussion
 
LAUSD demurs on
two grounds: (1) that because LAUSD is a public entity, the FAC does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; and (2) the Plaintiff may not
recover prejudgment interest against LAUSD. 
For ease of discussion, the Court will address these two grounds in
reverse order.
 
Prejudgment
Interest.
 
The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer relating to the claim for prejudgment interest.  A demurrer must challenge the entire
complaint or an entire cause of action.  LAUSD’s
argument that Plaintiff cannot recover prejudgment interest¿may (or may not) be
the proper subject of a motion to strike or some other motion, but it is not
the proper subject of a demurrer.¿ 
 
Failure to State Facts Sufficient to
Constitute a Cause of Action Against a Public Entity
¿¿ 
Government
Code section 815 plainly and specifically bars common law tort claims against a
public entity and requires instead that any claim against a public entity “that
arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee” must
be “provided by statute.”  As recently
stated by the California Supreme Court, “Under the Government Claims Act, a
tort action cannot be maintained against a government entity unless the claim
is premised on a statute providing for that liability.”  (Tansavatdi v. City of Rancho Palos Verdes
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 639, 652.)  “[D]irect tort liability
of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be
liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general
tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of
immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine application
of general tort principles.”  (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection
Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)  
 
“[T]o state a
cause of action every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability
must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory
duty.”  (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d
792, 802.)  “Since the duty of a governmental agency can only be created
by statute or ‘enactment,’ the statute or ‘enactment’ claimed to establish the
duty must at the very least be identified.”  (Ibid.) 
 
In the FAC, Plaintiff does not plead any
statutory basis for his claims.  Instead,
Plaintiff pleads only common law claims, which are barred by Government Code
section 815.  Although Plaintiff argues in
his Opposition that there is a statutory basis for his claims, the Court must
rule on the demurrer based on what appears on the face of the FAC, not contentions
contained in subsequently filed legal briefs. 
 
Accordingly, LAUSD’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
The Court does, however, GRANT Plaintiff
LEAVE TO AMEND.  Based on the factual
allegations in the FAC, and the legal arguments in the Opposition, it is at
least reasonably possible that Plaintiff will be able to amend to state one or
more viable causes of action against LAUSD.
 
Conclusion¿ 
¿¿¿ 
LAUSD’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Plaintiff is
granted leave to amend within 21 days of notice of this order.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.¿¿¿¿ 
 
 