 Case Number:  21STCV28384    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The
Court DENIES Defendant’s request for terminating sanctions.
 
The
Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.  
 
Background 
 
This cases arises out of an alleged vehicle accident on August
17, 2019, at or near 6022 West Pico Boulevard in Los Angeles, California.  On August 2, 2021, Plaintiff Edvin Asatori
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Steven Perez (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 10 alleging causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence
and (2) general negligence.  On May 31,
2022, Defendant filed an answer.
 
On May 24, 2023, this Court, on the unopposed motions of
Defendant, made a series of orders, including: (1) deeming admitted the truth
of matters specified in Defendant’s Requests for Admission (Set One); (2) compelling
Plaintiff to respond to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), and Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
within 30 days; and (3) requiring Plaintiff and counsel of record to pay
monetary sanctions to Defendant.
 
Plaintiff served unverified responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production on June
22, 2023.  (LaScola Decl., ¶ 7 &
Exhs. B-D.)  Plaintiff has not otherwise
complied with the Court’s orders.  (Id.,
¶ 9.)
 
On September 6, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for
summary judgment.  The motion is set for
hearing on December 1, 2023.
 
Also on September 6, Defendant filed the two motions that
are set for hearing on October 4.  First,
Defendant moves to continue the trial date. 
Trial is currently set for January 26, 2024, and Defendant seeks a
five-month continuance to June 26, 2024.
 
Second, Defendant moves for terminating sanctions based
on Plaintiff’s failure to comply with this Court’s order of May 24, 2023.
 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to either motion.
 
Legal
Standard 
Motion to Continue Trial
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court. (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  The decision whether to grant a
continuance is within the trial court’s discretion and will not be disturbed on
appeal absent a clear showing of abused discretion. (Jurado v. Toys “R” Us,
Inc. (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1615, 1617.) 
A party seeking a continuance of the date set
for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex parte application,
with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).) The party
must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the
necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332
sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining
whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers
factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).) 
Motion for Terminating Sanctions
The Civil Discovery Act provides for an
incremental and escalating approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.  (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and
commensurate with the misconduct, and it should not exceed that which is
required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.  (Ibid.)  Continuing misuses of
the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the
sanction is reached that will curb the abuse. 
(Ibid.)  Where discovery violations are “willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules, the trial court is
justified in imposing the ultimate sanction. 
(Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but there must be a willful failure to comply with a court
order for the court to impose nonmonetary sanctions.  (Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.)  Repeated and willful violations of discovery
orders that prejudice the opposing party may warrant a terminating sanction.  (Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702; Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390; Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 989.)
The primary purpose of discovery sanctions is
to obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and the Court’s orders.  It is not to punish.  (Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.)  A discovery
sanction should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a
better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply complied
with its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery Act.  (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 8:2214-2220.)
Failure to pay
a monetary sanction is generally not a sufficient grounds for a terminating
sanction.  (See Newland v. Superior Court¿(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
608, 610, 615.) An order for monetary sanctions is enforceable as a money
judgment under the Enforcement of Judgments Law, Code of Civil Procedure
sections 680.010, et seq.  (Ibid.) 
Discussion
– Motion to Continue Trial    
 
Defendant seeks a continuance to
conduct further discovery, a process that has been delayed and obstructed by
the failure to Plaintiff to respond to the initial set of discovery requests.  This failure to move forward with fact
discovery, in turn, has made it difficult or impossible for Defendant to engage
expert witnesses.  Additional time is
necessary, Defendant argues, to complete discovery, including fact and expert
discovery; to prepare for trial; and to engage in meaningful settlement
discussions. 
 
The Court finds that Defendant
has shown good cause for a continuance. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 
Discussion – Motion for
Terminating Sanctions
 
The Court has
carefully considered Defendant’s request for terminating sanctions. On this
record, the Court finds that it is not appropriate to grant the request at this
time. 
 
A terminating
sanction is a drastic remedy that is appropriate only in the extreme case.
Discovery sanctions are meant to enforce the obligations of the Civil Discovery
Act, not to punish or to place the propounding party in a better position that he
would be in if he had received timely discovery responses.  Although Plaintiff’s conduct merits
substantial sanctions, Defendant has not yet demonstrated that a terminating
sanction is warranted in this matter.
 
In the notice of
motion and motion, Defendant does not request issue or evidentiary sanctions.  Although such sanctions are mentioned near
the end of Defendant’s memorandum of points and authorities, the Court declines
to consider such sanctions at this time as they were not properly identified as
relief requested in the notice of motion and motion. 
 
The Court does find
that there is a basis to grant Defendant’s request for an additional monetary
sanction in light of Plaintiff’s ongoing violation of the Court’s previous
order and Plaintiff’s obligations under the Civil Discovery Act. An additional
monetary sanction of $690 is awarded, calculated as three hours of attorney
time, multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $210 per hour, plus a filing fee
of $60. (LaScola Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
Conclusion 
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial and all trial-related dates
in this matter. The Court continues trial in this matter to late June 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based upon the new trial date.
 
The
Court DENIES Defendant’s request for terminating sanctions.
 
The
Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff
and counsel of record the Law Offices of Arno Mehrabi are ORDERED, jointly and
severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant under the Civil Discovery Act
in the amount of $690 within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 