  Case Number:  19STCV19943    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  29  
TENTATIVE
 
Defendants’
motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination is
GRANTED.
 
Defendants’ request
for sanctions is GRANTED in part.
 
Background 
 
This case
arises out of an alleged vehicle accident that occurred on or about June 12,
2017, near the intersection of Temple Avenue and Diamond Bar Boulevard.  On June 7, 2019, Plaintiff Tamara Abdelgainy
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Tedocio Borja Mendoza, Anthony
Torres Demolition Corp. (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50
asserting causes of action for Negligence, Negligence Per Se, Vicarious
Liability, Negligent Entrustment of a Motor Vehicle, and Negligent Hiring,
Retention, Supervision and Training. 
Defendants filed their answer on September 2, 2021.
 
On March
10, 2023, Defendants served Plaintiff with a demand for an orthopedic
examination on April 12.  (Av Decl., ¶ 11
& Exh. C.)  Plaintiff did not serve a
response and did not appear for the examination.  (Id., ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
On August 11, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to compel Plaintiff to attend an independent medical examination.  Defendants also request sanctions.
 
Plaintiffs have not filed any opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal
injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff,
if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not
include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or
intrusive; (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.220, subdivision (b), this demand may be made “without leave of
court.”  The physical examination must be scheduled for a date at least 30
days after service of the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (d).)
 
A plaintiff to whom a demand for a
physical examination is directed must respond within 20 days and state, in
writing, that the plaintiff will comply with the demand as made, will comply
with the demand as modified, or will refuse to comply with the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.230.)
 
If
the plaintiff does not serve a timely response, the defendant requesting the
examination “may move for an order compelling response and compliance with” the
demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240,
subd. (b).)  Also, a plaintiff who fails
to serve a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Id., subd. (a).)
 
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2030.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with
a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., subd. (c).)
 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff
is seeking recovery for physical injuries, “including but not limited to
injuries to her head, back pain, leg pain, numbness of the head headaches,
memory loss, shattered tailbone and other injuries.”  (Complaint, ¶ 9; see also Av Decl., ¶¶ 7-8
& Exh. A.).  Accordingly, Defendants
are entitled to conduct one physical examination of Plaintiff as of right,
without leave of the Court, by serving a demand on Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)
Defendants
served a demand for a physical examination. 
(Av Decl., ¶ 11 & Exh. C.)  Plaintiff did not respond or appear for the
examination.  (Id.,
¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Defendants
need show nothing more.  Their request
for an order compelling compliance with the demand for a physical examination
is GRANTED.
Defendants’
request for sanctions is also GRANTED in part. 
Given the relatively straightforward nature of a motion to compel a physical
examination, the Court sets sanctions in the amount of $996.65, calculated as 2.5
hours of attorney time for the motion, multiplied by counsel’s hourly rate of
$174, plus a filing fee of $61.65 and a reasonable no-show fee of $500.  (See Av Decl., ¶¶ 22-23.)
Conclusion
Defendants’
motion to compel
Plaintiff to comply with the demand for a physical examination is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ORDERED to appear
for an orthopedic examination by Dr. Sumeet Vadera, whose specialty is
orthopedic surgery, at 767 S. Sunset Avenue, Suite 7, West Covina, California
91790, at a date and time to be provided to Plaintiff in writing at least 21
days in advance of the examination.
Defendants’
request for sanctions is GRANTED in part. 
 
Plaintiff and
counsel of record Andy Basseri are ORDERED,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant in the amount of 996.65
within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
Moving party to
give notice.
 