  Case Number:  21GDCV00974    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS MOTION TO
CONTINUE TRIAL AS MOOTI.         INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Futang Ji, Yi-Ching Wu,
Xuyin Zhou, and Yong Zong (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) are four Chinese
nationals seeking permanent residency through the federal EB-5 Program. Each
Plaintiff invested $500,000 for the development of The Palms of Punta Gorda, a
senior living and memory care facility located in Punta Gorda, Florida. The
initial complaint was filed on July 27, 2021, the First Amended Complaint was
filed on January 11, 2022, the Second Amended Complaint was filed on September
8, 2022, and the Fourth Amended Complaint was filed on July 24, 2024.
The Fourth Amended Complaint
asserts nine causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, (3)
misrepresentation, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) unjust enrichment, (6)
fraudulent transfer, (7) conspiracy to defraud, (8) violation of California Business
& Professions Code §17200, and (9) accounting. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants misappropriated their investments, resulting in significant
financial losses, including the fraudulent transfer of assets following the
sale of the project.
On August 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this Motion to Continue Trial. Trial was set for September 24, 2024.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): (1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party
depriving the new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and
preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a]
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from
being ready for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ 
Other relevant considerations may
include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
[¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7)¿The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶]
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.”
(Id., Rule 3.1332(d).)¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery proceedings. In
doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave requested,
including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery, (2) the
diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the likelihood of
interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and (4) the
length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2024.050.) 
III.      ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs move to continue the
trial for six months, arguing that good cause exists due to the recent filing
of the Fourth Amended Complaint and the addition of new Defendants, Grandtag
Business Consultants, Ltd., Jameson Leung, and Rene Leung. Plaintiffs state
that they have successfully served Grandtag Business Consultants, Ltd., but are
still in the process of locating and serving Jameson and Rene Leung. Plaintiffs
argue that additional time is necessary to effect service on the remaining new
Defendants and to conduct discovery related to these newly added parties.
(Motion, p. 2).
The Court finds that this action is
moot since the trial date has already been advanced and vacated as per the
Court’s minute order dated July 18, 2024 (Minute Order, p. 11). Therefore, no
continuance is necessary at this time.
            IV.       CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Plaintiffs motion to
continue trial is DENIED.
Plaintiffs are to give notice. 
                          
Dated: October 17, 2024
                                                                              JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT  

                                                           