 Case Number:  24NNCV00138    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING
DEFENDANTS MENASHE PEREZT and NEO BUILDER INC, DEMURRER TO COMPLAINTI.         INTRODUCTION
In this breach of contract action,
Plaintiff Jose Menjivar Menjivar (“Plaintiff”) alleges that in or around May
2023, Defendant Menashe Perezt, along with his construction company Neo
Builder, Inc., requested that Plaintiff work on the expansion of their home in
North Hollywood. Plaintiff claims that he performed substantial construction
work for Defendants but was not paid for the services rendered. Plaintiff
further alleges that the total unpaid amount for the work, materials, and labor
is approximately $51,000.
Plaintiff filed this action on May
3, 2024, asserting causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violation of California’s
Unfair Competition Law (Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq.).
Defendant Ofri Peretz filed an answer on May 5, 2024. Defendants Menashe Perezt
and Neo Builder, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a demurrer to
Plaintiff’s complaint on June 6, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
demurrer on October 7, 2024.
Before the Court are Defendants'
challenges to the complaint, arguing that Plaintiff lacks standing, that the
complaint fails to state sufficient facts for any cause of action, and that the
allegations are uncertain. Defendants contend that the demurrer should be
sustained without leave to amend.
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the
responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video
conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.
Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing
the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to
meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer
or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.
(a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading at least five days before the responsive pleading
is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video conference with the
aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer. Additionally, the
demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and confer
efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to meet and confer is
not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer or granting or
denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4), 435.5,
subd. (a)(4).)
Here, Defendants attempted to meet
and confer with Plaintiff prior to filing this demurrer, as evidenced by the
declaration of Peter J. Ryan. The first email was sent on May 7, 2024,
requesting a phone call. After receiving no response, a follow-up email was
sent on May 14, 2024, reiterating the request for a phone call. Defendant also
attempted to reach Plaintiff by phone, but Plaintiff did not respond. A final
email was sent on May 31, 2024, again no response. (See Ryan Decl. ¶ 2.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant satisfied the meet-and-confer
requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41.
MOVING PARTY’S ARGUMENT
Defendants Neo Builder, Inc. and
Menashe Perezt demur to Plaintiff’s entire complaint and the three causes of
action, contending that Plaintiff lacks standing to sue, the complaint fails to
allege sufficient facts to support any of the causes of action, and the
allegations are uncertain. 
OPPOSITION
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer,
arguing that he was not required to hold a contractor’s license because he
acted as an employee of Defendants. Plaintiff further contends that he has
alleged sufficient facts to support his claims for breach of contract, breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”
they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be
accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)
provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible
a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
III.      ANALYSIS
A.   
General Demurrer – Failure to State Facts
Sufficient to Constitute a Cause of Action
Defendants demur to all three
causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and (3) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
“The standard elements of a claim
for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
Plaintiff alleges in the complaint
that he was employed by Defendants for seven years (Complaint ¶ 9). Defendant Menashe Perezt is the
founder, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer of Defendant Neo
Builder, Inc. (Opposition, p. 3). Plaintiff alleges that he worked for
Defendants as a foreman or handyman, repairing properties for the construction
company, hiring workers, and purchasing materials for various projects
(Complaint ¶¶ 10-11). In or around May 2023, Defendant Menashe Perezt
asked Plaintiff to work on a home expansion project at 6215 Goodland Ave,
Valley Village, California, including building an ADU, converting the garage to
a second unit, and expanding the house where Defendant lived with his wife
(Complaint ¶ 13). Defendant instructed Plaintiff to make the foundation,
construction frame, walls, and all necessary components for the ADU and to hire
help for the project, with the promise that Defendant would reimburse and pay
him (Complaint ¶ 15). Plaintiff worked on the project for approximately one
year and submitted a final invoice to Defendant for $51,000, covering expenses
and labor for foundation, framing, electrical work, and other construction
tasks (Complaint ¶¶ 20-22). Defendant refused to pay.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
does not hold a valid contractor's license and is therefore barred from suing
for breach of a construction contract (Demurrer p. 6). In his opposition,
Plaintiff argues that he was Defendants’ employee and not an independent
contractor.  The complaint contains
language supporting this argument (see complaint ¶¶ 9-14).  At this stage of the proceedings, the issue is
not whether Plaintiff holds a valid contractor’s license (which is not
addressed one way or the other in the complaint) but whether Plaintiff has pled
sufficient facts to support a breach of contract claim. The facts alleged in
the complaint, taken as true, are sufficient to establish the existence of a
contract. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant requested work on the home,
instructed Plaintiff to hire help, and agreed to reimburse Plaintiff. Plaintiff
worked on the project, submitted an invoice, and Defendant refused to pay.
These allegations are sufficient to state a claim for breach of contract.  
Accordingly, Defendants' demurrer
to the breach of contract claim is overruled.
 
Second Cause of Action : Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
The elements of breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing are: 

(1) existence of a contractual relationship; (2) implied
duty; (3) breach; and (4) causation of damages. (Smith v. San Francisco
(1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)  “Every
contract imposes on each party an implied duty of good faith and fair
dealing.”  Egan v. Mutual of Omaha
Ins. Co (1979) 24 Cal.3d 809, 818.) 
Breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing is a form of
breach of contract action. The same elements apply, but the breach is not of an
express term of the contract but rather an implied term necessary to protect
the reasonable expectations and purposes of the contracting parties as to the
express terms of the contract.  Carma
Developers, Inc. v. Marathon Development California, Inc (1992) 2 Cal.4th
342, 373.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to state a claim and that this
cause of action cannot survive without a valid contractual claim (Demurrer p.
7). However, as noted above, the facts alleged in the complaint, taken as true,
are sufficient to establish the existence of a contract.
Accordingly, Defendants' demurrer
to the second cause of action is overruled.
Third Cause of Action : Unfair Business Act and Practices
Violation of Business and Professions CodeI Section 17200 et seq. — Unlawful,
Fraudulent, and Unfair Business Act and Practices
To set forth a claim for a
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff
must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising”
and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action
for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract
action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 163, 173.) 
Defendants demur to this cause of
action, arguing that the complaint lacks specific allegations of unfair or
deceptive conduct and simply presents conclusory statements (Demurrer, p. 8).
Plaintiff, however, alleges in the
complaint that he incurred significant expenses—approximately $135,000—for the
project, with the understanding that Defendants would reimburse him (Complaint
¶ 18). Plaintiff further alleges that when he presented a final invoice for
$51,000, Defendant Menashe Perezt refused to pay and instead offered only
partial payments of $100 to $500 per month, stating that “no one could do
anything to him” (Complaint ¶ 22). Defendant further told Plaintiff that he
knew the laws and if Plaintiff wanted to see any payment, he would have to
continue working for Defendants (Complaint ¶ 23). These allegations, coupled
with Plaintiff's assertion that Defendants engaged in “unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business acts” (Complaint ¶ 41), are sufficient to state a claim
under Business and Professions Code § 17200.
The Court finds that these assertions
go beyond mere conclusory allegations and provide a factual basis for
Plaintiff’s claim that Defendants engaged in unfair or fraudulent business
practices by refusing to pay for work performed and using unfair and unlawful
tactics to avoid payment.
Accordingly, Defendants' demurrer
to the third cause of action is overruled.
IV.       ORDER
            The Court OVERRULES
the demurrer as to all three causes of action.
            Defendants are
to give notice and provide an answer within 10 days of this order. 
 
Dated:
October 17, 2024
 
 
 
 
             
JARED D. MOSES  
              JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 