 Case Number:  23PSCV01436    Hearing Date:   July 24, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Wanda
Moving, Inc.’s and 2Cube Global Inc.’s Demurrer to Second Amended
Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED. 

2.         Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Wanda
Moving, Inc.’s and 2Cube Global Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint is DENIED as MOOT in
part (i.e., as to Page 17, Paragraph 80, line 2 and Page 27,
Paragraph 122, line 11) and otherwise GRANTED.
Background   
Plaintiffs Wanda Moving, Inc. (“WMI”) and 2Cube Global Inc. (“2Cube”)
(together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
Plaintiffs are in the business of
providing logistics and warehousing services for imports of goods from China to
the United States. 2Cube acts as a “3PL” or third-party logistics provider for
WMI by procuring transportation services for delivery orders received by WMI.
Xiaojun Xu (“Xu”) was hired by 2Cube as a truck driver to deliver various goods
to customers. From approximately January 2023 to present, Xu conspired with Pak
Ho Lo (“Lo”), Swap Meet Depot (“SWAP”) and MMS Depot (“MMS”) by stealing a
portion of goods belonging to Plaintiffs from each delivery and delivering same
to a warehouse in El Monte where SWAP and MMS are located.
On June 22, 2023, Lo and SWAP filed a cross-complaint,
asserting causes of action against Chaoseng Zhao, Shengdong Zhao (“S. Zhao”),
Liming Wang, 2Cube, Zexing Zhao (“Z. Zhao”), WMI and Does 1-200 for:
1.                 
Conversion
2.                 
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship
3.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
4.                 
Restitution—Unjust Enrichment 
5.                 
Unfair Business Practices
6.                 
Accounting
7.                 
Fraud
On June 28, 2023, MMS’ default was entered on the complaint.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action against Xu, Lo, SWAP, MMS and Does 1-200
for:
1.                 
Conversion
2.                 
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship
3.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
4.                 
Restitution—Unjust Enrichment 
5.                 
Unfair Business Practices
6.                 
Accounting
7.                 
Injunctive Relief
On August 24, 2023, an “Order Re: Defendants’ Contempt for
Defendants’ Failure to Abide by this Court’s May 24, 2023 and July 10, 2023
Orders” was entered.
On November 30, 2023, the court granted WMI, 2Cube, S. Zhao
and Z. Zhao’s Special Motion to Strike Lo and SWAP’s cross-complaint.
On April 30, 2024, Intelligent Express Inc. (“Intelligent”)
and Xu filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”), asserting causes of
action against WMI, 2Cube, DerB Inc. (“DerB”) and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Conversion
3.                 
Unfair Business Practices—California Business &
Profession[s] Code §§ 17200, et seq.
4.                 
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
A Case Management Conference is set for July 24, 2024.
1. Demurrer to SACC
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or are uncertain.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
WMI and 2Cube demur, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f), to the first and fourth causes of action in Intelligent’s and Xu’s SACC, on the basis that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and are
uncertain.
At the outset, the court declines to consider the
Declaration of Long Z. Liu filed concurrently with Intelligent’s and Xu’s
opposition as improper on demurrer.
First and Fourth Causes of Action (i.e., Breach of Oral
and Written Contracts and Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, Respectively)
WMI and 2Cube assert that Intelligent and Xu have not
adequately pled the existence of written and/or oral contracts. The court
agrees.
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for breach of contract
are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC
v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “The prerequisite for any action
for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is the
existence of a contractual relationship between the parties, since the covenant
is an implied term in the contract.” (Smith v. City and County of San
Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)
Intelligent and Xu first allege that Intelligent “had an oral
contract” with WMI and 2Cube (SACC, ¶ 15), but then allege that “[f]rom January
and February of 2023, Cross-Defendants collectively entered into a series of oral
and written agreements” which were document[ed]  orally and with bill of lading, invoices,
e-mails, and WeChat messages.”(Id., ¶¶ 61 and 63 [italics added]). Intelligent
and Xu then allege that “the parties’ agreement is based on a series of oral
agreements as well [as] their course of performance and overall conduct.” (Id.,
¶ 64). Intelligent and Xu subsequently make reference to a “Global Agreement.”
(Id., ¶ 81).
It still remains unclear to the court,
based on the above allegations, how many contracts are alleged to have existed,
the parties to same and the terms of same. The bills of lading, moreover, do
not contain the names of any of these parties and do not contain any other
contractual terms from which the court can ascertain what is alleged to be
breached. The WeChat communications likewise do not show what contractual terms
were agreed to, if any.
WMI’s and 2Cube’s demurrer to the first and fourth causes of
action, then, is sustained.
2.         Motion to
Strike Portions of SACC
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
WMI and 2Cube move the court for an order striking out the
following portions of the SACC:
1.                 
Page 17, Paragraph 80, line 2 (i.e., “attorneys’ fees”);

2.                 
Page 22, Paragraph 100, line 2-Page 23, line 2 (i.e., “Cross-Complainants
allege that in doing the things herein alleged, the acts and conduct of
Cross-Defendants (Wanda Moving) constituted ‘malice,’ ‘oppression’ and/or ‘fraud,’
in that these acts were intended by Cross-Defendants to cause injury to
Cross-Complainant and/or constituted despicable conduct carried on by the
Cross-Defendants willful and conscious disregard of the rights of
Cross-Complainants, with the intention of Cross-Defendants being to deprive
Cross-Complainants of property and legal rights, and were not authorized or
approved by Cross-Complainants, justifying an award of exemplary and punitive
damages pursuant to Civil Code 3294(a) in an amount according to proof at time
of trial, in order to deter Cross-Defendants from similar conduct in the
future. Cross-Complainant claims such amounts as damages in addition to
pre-judgment interest thereon pursuant to Civil Code §§3287, 3288, and/or any
other applicable provision of law providing for prejudgment interest);
3.                 
Page 23, Paragraph 104, lines 18-25 (i.e., “[t]he
actions of Cross-Defendants, and each of them, were (1) fraudulent in nature
(2) malicious; (3) and/or oppressive, constituting despicable conduct; and
performed with intention of depriving Cross-Complainants of their substantial
rights. The actions of Cross-Defendants, and each of them were all performed
with the express knowledge, approval or ratification of Cross-Defendants, and
each of them. (Exhibits A-K)”); 
4.                 
Page 25, Paragraph 110, line
7 (i.e., “attorneys’ fees”); 
5.                 
Page 27, Paragraph 122, line 11 (i.e., “and appropriate
attorney fees”); and 
6.                 
Prayer for Relief (i.e., “attorneys’ fees” and
“exemplary damages”).
At the outset, the motion is summarily denied as moot in
part (i.e., as to Page 17, Paragraph 80, line 2 and Page 27, Paragraph 122,
line 11), based upon the ruling made on the demurrer.
The motion is otherwise granted. While “[t]here is no
question that punitive damages may be recovered in an action for conversion ,.
. .[they] are recoverable. . . only upon a showing of malice, fraud or
oppression.” (Krusi v. Bear, Stearns & Co. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d
664, 678.)
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [emphasis
added].)
Intelligent and Xu have not pled facts supporting
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct.
With respect to attorney’s fees, Code of Civil Procedure §
1021.5 states, in relevant part, as follows: “Upon motion, a court may award
attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in
any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary
or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large class of
persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement, or of
enforcement by one public entity against another public entity, are such as to make
the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of justice
be paid out of the recovery, if any. . .”
The instant lawsuit is a private dispute. Intelligent and Xu
are not seeking the “enforcement of an important right affecting the public
interest.”