 Case Number:  23STCV24643    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  1 23STCV24643           NORMA
SALCEDA vs KELLY B. PELTON
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Cases Related
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Cases Related is GRANTED.  Department 1 relates unlawful detainer case
23PDUD02724 with 23STCV24643. The Court orders 23PDUD02724 reassigned to
Department 68 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all purposes. All hearings
currently set in civil law case 23PDUD02724 are hereby advanced and
vacated.  Counsel for moving party to
give notice.
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant’s uncontested request
for judicial notice of the parties’ lease agreement and various court filings
is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452.) 
 
Motion to Relate Cases
 
Standard 
 
In the event that the pertinent judge under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.300(h)(1) does not relate any of the cases set forth in
a Notice of Related Case, Department 1 may relate the matters on noticed
motion. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(h)(1)(D); LASC Local Rules, rule 3.3(f)(3).) 
 
The Court Finds the Cases are Related
 
On October 24, 2023, Judge Douglas W. Stern issued an order
finding 23STCV24643 and 23PDUD02724
were not related within the meaning of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion is properly brought before Department 1. (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.300(h)(1)(D); LASC Local Rule 3.3(f)(3).)  

 
Cases
are related when they (1) involve the same parties and are based on the same or
similar claims, (2) arise from the same or substantially identical
transactions, incidents, or events requiring the determination of the same or
substantially identical questions of law or fact, (3) involve claims against,
title to, possession of, or damages to the same property, or (4) are likely for
other reasons to require substantial duplication of judicial resources if heard
by different judges. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(a).) In the initial Notice of
Related Case, Plaintiff indicated the cases were related based upon every
ground enumerated in Rule 3.300(a), but in attachment 1h thereto Plaintiff only
advocated for a stay of the unlawful detainer action.  
 
In opposition, Defendant contends the motion should be
denied based upon “a litany of legal defects,” referring to the merits of the
action and the potential success of an eventual request to consolidate the
actions. (Opp. at 7:18-10:23.) Defendant’s arguments regarding the merits of
Plaintiff’s claims are premature and immaterial to the issue of relation. 
 
The cases do not involve the same parties. The unlawful
detainer action names Norma Salceda, M.D., Saint Ana Community Health Center,
and all tenants as defendants and Salceda is the only Defendant who is also a
party to the unlimited civil case. In the motion and reply, Salceda argues
Saint Ana Community Health Center is not “a proper party” and Defendant contends
she is named as a defendant, but “there are no allegations in the FAC against
the Trust directly.” These are merits based arguments not properly adjudicated
in the instant motion. The Court considers the parties as they are named. The
cases also do not arise from the same or substantially identical transactions,
incidents, or events requiring the determination of the same or substantially
identical questions of law or fact. The unlawful detainer action arises out of Salceda’s
alleged holdover after the expiration of a lease, whereas the civil action
arises out of a series of alleged promises to Salceda regarding a transfer of
the property. 
 
However, the cases do involve title to and possession of
the same property. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(a)(3).) Generally, unlawful
detainer proceedings only concern straightforward issues regarding the right to
possession of disputed premises and the award of damages for any unlawful
detention; therefore, issues regarding the property’s title cannot be
adjudicated therein because unlawful detainer proceedings are designed to be
summary proceedings. (Martin-Bragg v.
Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385.) In the unlawful detainer action,
Pelton seeks to evict Salceda from the Pacoima property, where Salceda has
allegedly been practicing medicine since 2001. In the civil action, Salceda
asserts a contractual and equitable right to ownership of the Pacoima property,
and thus possession thereof. If the civil action is established in favor of
Salceda, it would defeat Pelton’s right to possession of the property and
eliminate her standing to prosecute the unlawful detainer action. (Ibid.
(“a successful claim of title by the tenant would defeat the landlord’s right
to possession.”).) There is a risk of conflicting rulings regarding possession
of, and title to, the Pacoima property if the cases are determined separately. 
 
Where,
as here, “an unlawful detainer proceeding and an unlimited action concerning
title to the property are simultaneously pending, the trial court in which the
unlimited action is pending may stay the unlawful detainer action until the
issue of title is resolved in the unlimited action, or it may consolidate the
actions.” (Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385.) In the Los Angeles Superior Court, a party cannot
request consolidation unless the cases are within the same department, (LASC
Local Rules, rule 3.3(g)(1), which is achieved via an order relating the two
cases. A single judicial officer should determine which of these remedies, if
any, are appropriate under the circumstances. 
 
The
motion is GRANTED. 
 