  Case Number:  23PSCV00561    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendants Rajesh  Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint Respondent:  Cross-Complainants Humble Retailers, Inc. and Satish Mahajan TENTATIVE RULING Cross-Defendants Rajesh  Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with ten (10) days’  leave given to amend as to Cross-Complainant Humble Retailers, Inc.’s causes of  action and Cross-Complainant Satish Mahajan’s Second Cause of Action. Furthermore,  Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s Demurrer is OVERRULED IN  PART as to Cross-Complainant Satish Mahajan’s First, Third, and Fourth Causes of  Action. BACKGROUND This  is a contractual fraud action. In early 2022, Defendants Humble Retailers, Inc.  (Humble Retailers), Satish Mahajan, Deepak Gosain, Narayan Singh, Mennu  Mahajan, and Nikki Sachdeva sought to sell their liquor store in Azusa to  Plaintiffs Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal. After Defendants allegedly promised  Thakkar and Mittal a turnkey business and failed to disclose the material  risks, Thakkar and Mittal signed a business purchase contract on August 30,  2022, and agreed to purchase the liquor store for $375,000. They then made a  $55,000 down payment prior to the opening of escrow. Subsequently,  when Thakkar and Mittal inspected the liquor store, they found twenty-two  different issues that they communicated to Defendants including a defective  walk-in cooler, a defective air conditioning system, defective exhaust and  ventilation systems, an inadequate electrical load, fire safety violations,  food safety violations, dilapidated building conditions, obscured security  cameras, and pest infestations. Thakkar and Mittal allege Defendants also  failed to transfer the liquor store’s ABC license, commercial lease, or  business title. While Thakkar and Mittal did not take possession of the  business, Defendants allegedly refused to return their down payments. On  February 27, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a complaint against Defendants and  Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraud in the  inducement, (2) conversion, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligent  misrepresentation, and (5) breach of contract. On July 19, the court sustained  a demurrer to the Complaint by Humble Retailers with leave to amend. The court  also struck a demurrer by Mennu Mahajan and overruled a demurrer by Satish  Mahajan. On  August 8, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)  against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action. On November 28, the court overruled  demurrers by Mennu Mahajan, Satish Mahajan, and Humble Retailers. On December  18, 2023, Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan filed a cross-complaint against  Thakkar, Mittal, and Roes 1-25, alleging (1) breach of contract, (2)  conversion, (3) specific performance, and (4) declaratory relief. On  February 16, 2024, Thakkar and Mittal filed the present demurrer. Prior to  filing on February 9, Thakkar and Mittal’s counsel attempted to meet and confer  telephonically with Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s counsel but was unsuccessful.  (Feazell Decl., ¶ 8.) A hearing  on the demurrer is set for March 21, 2024, along with a case management  conference. ANALYSIS Thakkar  and Mittal demur to Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s entire  Cross-Complaint. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS Thakkar and Mittal’s  demurrer to Humble Retailers’s causes of action and Satish Mahajan’s second  cause of action with leave to amend, and further OVERRULES their demurrer as to Satish  Mahajan’s first, third, and fourth causes of action. Legal Standard A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) Breach of Contract (First Cause of Action) Thakkar  and Mittal argue Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s first cause of action  for breach of contract fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The  court agrees as to Humble Retailers and disagrees as to Satish Mahajan. Legal Standard To  state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to  establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of  a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the  complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated  by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74  Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the  legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction  Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,  198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a  cause of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished  through the medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division  of Labor Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69  Cal.App.3d 268, 275.) Discussion In this case,  Thakkar and Mittal argue there are no facts establishing each of the elements  of a breach of contract claim. The Cross-Complaint alleges Satish Mahajan and  Gosain entered into a written purchase agreement with Thakkar and Mittal on  September 1, 2022, in which Thakkar and Mittal agreed to purchase a market in  Azusa from Mahajan and Gosain. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 7.) The Cross-Complaint also  provided an attached copy of the purchase agreement as Exhibit 1. While the  Cross-Complaint alleges Satish Mahajan was a party to the contract, there are  no facts establishing Humble Retailers was also a party to the contract. Thus,  Humble Retailers does not state a cause of action for breach of contract  against Thakkar and Mittal. The  Cross-Complaint also alleges Thakkar and Mittal were to pay a non-refundable  $25,000 deposit at the opening of escrow and pay the remainder of the purchase  price at the close of escrow. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 9.) If either party backed  out of the deal, the purchase agreement provided for $25,000 in liquidated  damages. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 10.) The Cross-Complaint alleges Thakkar and  Mittal then rescinded the purchase agreement ten days after assuming possession  of the Azusa market on September 3, 2022. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 13.) Because the  Cross-Complaint alleges Satish Mahajan’s performance (tendering possession of  the Azusa market to Thakkar and Mittal), Thakkar and Mittal’s breach  (rescinding the purchase agreement after ten days), and liquidated damages of  $25,000, Satish Mahajan has adequately stated a cause of action for breach of  contract. Accordingly,  Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to  Humble Retailers and OVERRULED as to Satish Mahajan. Conversion (Second Cause of Action) Thakkar  and Mittal contend Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s second cause of action  for conversion fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court  agrees. Legal Standard “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property  of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's  ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant's  conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3)  damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.)  “Conversion is an intentional tort.” (Multani v. Knight (2018) 23  Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) “Because the act [of conversion] must be knowingly done,  ‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of contract, even though  it result in injury to, or loss of, specific property, constitutes a  conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991) 235  Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.) “[C]ases recognizing claims for the conversion of money  ‘typically involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied  specific funds held for the benefit of others.’” (Voris v. Lampert (2019)  7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152, quoting PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,  Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 396.) Discussion In this case,  Thakkar and Mittal contend there are no facts establishing each of the elements  of a conversion claim. Because Thakkar and Mittal rescinded the purchase  agreement, the Cross-Complaint alleges Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan are  entitled to all sums paid by customers who visited the Azusa market during the  time Thakkar and Mittal were in possession. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 20.) But it is  unclear how Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan have a property interest in the  Azusa market’s profits during the time in which Thakkar and Mittal were  lawfully in possession. Nor does their opposition provide a single statute or  case that provides any legal support for this claim. Accordingly,  because the Cross-Complaint failed to allege how Humble Retailers and Satish  Mahajan had a property interest in the Azusa market’s profits after possession  was surrendered, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Specific Performance (Third Cause of Action) Thakkar  and Mittal maintain Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s third cause of action  for specific performance fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim  because the Cross-Complaint fails to adequately allege a cause of action for  breach of contract. Thus, for the same reasons noted above with regards to the  first cause of action, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to this cause of action is  SUSTAINED  with leave  to amend as to Humble Retailers and OVERRULED as to Satish Mahajan. Declaratory Relief (Fourth Cause of Action) Thakkar  and Mittal argue Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s fourth cause of action  for declaratory relief fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because  the Cross-Complaint fails to establish the existence of an actual controversy. The  court agrees as to Humble Retailers and disagrees as to Satish Mahajan. Legal Standard “To  qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action  presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,  and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the  party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)  213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) “The courts do  not issue advisory opinions about the rights and duties of the parties under  particular agreements, if no actual, justiciable controversy has yet  developed.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th  556, 563.) Discussion In  this case, the Cross-Complaint alleges there is an actual controversy arising  between Satish Mahajan, Thakkar, and Mittal regarding their obligations  pursuant to the purchase agreement for the Azusa market. (Cross-Complaint, ¶  28-29.) But there does not appear to an actual controversy with regards to Humble  Retailers as they have failed to state a cause of action for breach of contract  or conversion. Accordingly,  Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to  Humble Retailers and OVERRULED as to Satish Mahajan. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Thakkar  and Mittal’s demurrer to Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan’s Cross-Complaint  is SUSTAINED with ten (10) days’ leave given to amend in its entirety as  to Humble Retailers and as to Satish Mahajan’s second cause of action.  Furthermore, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to Satish Mahajan’s first,  third, and fourth causes of action.