  Case Number:  22TRCV00758    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ADAN
  F APARICIO, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.: 22TRCV00758
 


 
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 13, 2025
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Adan F Aparicio and Darline Aparicio  
Responding
Party:                  Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The motion
is GRANTED. Defendant is to produce a person most qualified within 10 days of
the date of notice of this order to testify on the matters for examination
identified in plaintiffs’ Third Amended Notice of Deposition of the Person Most
Qualified for Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
BACKGROUND
            On February 16, 2025 the parties
shall “celebrate” the 2 year anniversary of when Plaintiff commenced noticing
the deposition of Defendant that is the subject of this motion.
            IT SHOULD NEVER TAKE 2 YEARS TO
SCHEDULE A DEPOSITION.
            On August 30, 2022, plaintiffs Adan
F Aparicio and Darline Aparicio filed a complaint against American Honda Motor
Company, Inc. and Does 1-50 for violations of statutory obligations under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act based on the purchase of a 2020 Honda Pilot.
Plaintiffs allege that during the warranty period, the subject vehicle
contained or developed defects including, but not limited to, a defective audio
system. Compl., ¶ 12. Plaintiffs presented the subject vehicle to defendant and
its representatives for repair; however, defendant and its representatives were
unable and/or failed to service or repair the subject vehicle within a
reasonable number of attempts. Compl., ¶¶ 14-15.  
            Plaintiffs now move to compel the
deposition of defendant’s person most qualified along with the production of
documents at deposition. Defendant opposes the motion, to which plaintiffs
replied.
            Jury trial is set to commence on
February 24, 2025. Thus, the discovery cutoff date is January 25, 2025. CCP §
2024.020(a). 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            The court OVERRULES plaintiffs’
evidentiary objection number 1 to the declaration of Zaeema Ejaz submitted in
opposition to the motion.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            In California, discovery statutes
“must be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is
clearly improper.” Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.
“Under the discovery statutes, information is discoverable if it is
unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” John B. v. Superior
Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186. “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” Ibid.
“When discovery requests are grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not
appear reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable
inference can be drawn of an intent to harass and improperly burden.” Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431. 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by taking in
California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.” CCP § 2025.010. CCP §§ 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served. A deposition must be “scheduled for at least 10 days after
service of the deposition notice.” CCP § 2025.270(a). 
“The service of a deposition notice under Section
2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to
testify, as well as produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing for inspection and copying.” CCP § 2025.280 (a).
CCP § 2025.410 (a) requires any party to serve a
written objection at least three days before the deposition if the party
contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions of
sections 2025.210 through 2025.280. 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of that
party, or a person designated by an organization . . .  without having served a valid objection . . .
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” CCP § 2025.450 (a).
Any such motion to compel must show good cause for
the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to appear, the
motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” CCP § 2025.450(b).
“In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way
of declarations.” Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must
identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and explain how
the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead
to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact. Digital
Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs
seek an order compelling defendant to designate and produce for deposition a
person(s) most qualified (PMQ) on all categories “identified in [p]laintiffs’
Notice of Deposition of the Person Most Qualified for [d]efendant AHM and
Demand to Produce Documents at Deposition; and (2) directing [d]efendant to
comply within ten (10) calendar days.” Not. of Mot. at p. 1:6-10. 
Evidence
in Support of the Motion
Counsel
for plaintiffs, Corinna Jiang (“Jiang”), provides a declaration in support of
the motion. Ms. Jiang states the following: on February 3, 2022, plaintiffs
purchased the subject vehicle. Jiang Decl., ¶ 3. Plaintiffs visited the
dealership on at least ten different occasions for the subject Infotainment
System Defect, all occurring during the warranty period. Jiang Decl., ¶ 4. Ms.
Jiang sets forth the issues with the infotainment system in plaintiffs’
vehicle. Jiang Decl., ¶ 4.
Plaintiffs
served four deposition notices for the PMQ of defendant, to which defendant
objected. Jiang Decl., ¶¶ 5-12; Exhs. 1-7. The history recited in the Motion
reveals a failure on the part of Defendant Honda to work constructively to
schedule deposition and a failure on the part of Plaintiff’s counsel to work cooperatively
to attempt to address the categories of witness(s) that would be produced.  It also shows an inexplicable failure of
Plaintiff to pursue the deposition for over a year.
 
Commencing
February 16, 2023 Plaintiff’s counsel began the effort to obtain the deposition
of Defendant Honda’s PMQ.  The deposition
was noticed for March 16, 2023. 
Objection was made by Honda on March 9, 2023, noting that no witness would
be produced.
An “Amended
Notice of Deposition” was served over a year after the first Notice, on July 8,
2024.  It set the deposition for August
6, 2024.  Objection was served.
A “Second
Amended Notice” was served on August 14, 2024 selecting the date of August 29,
2024 for the deposition.  August 22, 2024
saw yet another Objection served, and no deposition was to take place.  
Finally,
the Third Amended Notice was served on November 5, 2024 scheduling the deposition
for November 19, 2024.
Numerous communications
were undertaken seeking dates for the deposition.  Nothing was advanced in the effort to address
scheduling the deposition or of addressing the objections to the categories of topics
to be addressed at deposition.
 
The Court
is told by Honda that “[o]n December 26, 2024, [10 days after this motion was
filed] Honda offered July 11, 2025 as a date for the deposition of Honda’s PMK.”
IT SHOULD
NOT TAKE 6 MONTHS TO SCHEDULE A DEPOSITION.
 
Defendant
Honda complains that Plaintiff failed to “meet and confer” regarding the objections
to the categories of topics requested in the various Notices.  Plaintiff’s Reply asserts that “AHM’s obligation
here is to produce its PMQ for deposition, at which point it may assert its
objections during course of deposition, after which Plaintiffs may choose which
categories to further pursue. AHM is not permitted to withhold its PMQ from
deposition entirely.”  “If AHM would
actually appear for deposition in the first place, at that point it would be
known which categories and testimony Plaintiffs need to further pursue. The
issue here is simply that AHM refused to provide available dates or appear for
deposition in the first place.”
While
that may be one means or addressing category objections, it is shortsighted to
claim that this was the only (or even the best) way to deal with the
objections.  Since Honda apparently believed
that it need not produce a witness for some of the categories, it is not efficient
to simply proceed to the deposition and then discuss the categories of
witnesses (who did not attend) that might then be produced on yet another date.  It is wiser to discuss the categories and
attempt to resolve the breadth of the categories so that the deposition takes
place with both sides knowing which categories shall be produced.  Plaintiff should have engaged Honda to
address the categories so that a witness or witnesses could be brought forth.  Perhaps agreement could have been reached.
 
The
operative deposition notice is the Third Amended Notice of Deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Qualified and Demand to Produce Documents at Deposition
(the “Third Amended Deposition Notice”), which was served on defendant on
November 5, 2024, and noticed the deposition for November 19, 2024. Jiang
Decl., ¶ 11; Exh. 6. Counsel states that defendant has not responded to any of
her meet and confer efforts, and that “[p]laintiffs have been seeking this
deposition since February of 2023.” Jiang Decl., ¶ 17. 
In her
supplemental declaration, Ms. Jiang states that she attempted to meet and
confer with defendant. Jiang Supp. Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 9. Ms. Jiang states that
“[t]o date, [d]efendant has not provided any alternative dates for its PMQ
deposition to occur prior to the current trial date.” Jiang Supp. Decl., ¶ 5. 
Evidence
in Opposition to the Motion 
            In
opposition to the motion, defendant presents evidence that it offered the date
of deposition of July 11, 2025 for defendant’s PMQ. Ejaz Decl., ¶ 3; Exhs. A,
F. Defendant also presents evidence that plaintiffs failed to meet and confer
prior to filing the instant motion. Ejaz Decl., ¶¶ 8-9; Exh. F. 
 
Scope of
the Operative Third Amended Deposition Notice
The
operative Third Amended Deposition Notice is attached as Exhibit 6 to the
declaration of Ms. Jiang in support of the motion. 
The court
has reviewed such notice. The Third Amended Deposition Notice sets forth the
following nineteen (19) matters on which the deponent is to be examined:
1.     
Questions relating to the nature and extent of all
of the service history and warranty history relating to the subject vehicle; 
2.     
Questions relating to all communications between
defendant and plaintiffs, or anyone on plaintiffs’ behalf;
3.     
Questions relating to all communications between
defendant and any other person regarding the subject vehicle; 
4.     
Questions relating to all service advisory notices,
technical service bulletins, recalls, defect investigations, and other repair
documents relating to the subject vehicle;
5.     
Questions relating to the process that is in place
and has been in place for the last three years relating to defendant’s
evaluations of requests by defendant’s customers to have vehicles repurchased
pursuant to Civ. Code § 1793.2, including but not limited to any policies and
procedures regarding the repurchasing of the subject vehicle due to the
infotainment system defect;
6.     
Questions regarding the nature, extent, and
substance of correspondence between defendant and other persons or entities regarding
the infotainment system defect; 
7.     
Questions regarding defendant’s refusal to promptly
repurchase the subject vehicle;
8.     
Questions regarding the nature of the infotainment
system defect, including the cause of the infotainment system defect, all
available fixes that have been made available to defendant’s authorized dealers
to date, and the subsequent results of such fixes; 
9.     
Questions regarding defendant’s ongoing efforts to
repair or remedy the infotainment system defect, including all internal tests,
investigations and the number of modifications made to defendant’s vehicles
which are the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle;
10.  Questions
regarding the terms of defendant’s owners’ manual, maintenance schedule,
defendant’s express warranty or any extended warranty that might be in effect,
and as they related to the infotainment system defect;
11.  Questions
regarding all repair documents that defendant has issued to its dealers and/or
consumers regarding the infotainment system defect or other non-conformities
experienced by plaintiffs with respect to the subject vehicle;
12.  Questions
regarding all available repairs for the infotainment system defect and
approximate dates on which those repairs were made available to defendant’s
dealers;
13.  Questions
regarding defendant’s third-party dispute resolution program;
14.  Questions
regarding any communications concerning the infotainment system defect,
including the cause of the infotainment system defect, all available remedies,
and discussions of any and all modifications of defendant’s vehicles and
related parts provided to date, and the efficacy of those modifications;
15.  Questions
regarding any available fix for the infotainment system defect;
16.  Questions
regarding defendant’s policies and procedures to ensure that defendant is in
compliance with the requirements of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act;
17.  Questions
regarding defendant’s procedures to implement defendant’s compliance with the
requirements of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act;
18.  Questions
concerning how defendant calculates restitution offered to consumers pursuant
to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; and 
19.  Questions
regarding defendant’s preservation of, search for, and production of documents
and data, both hard copy and electronically stored information, relevant to the
claims and defenses in this litigation, including all steps taken to prevent or
stop deletion, overwriting or modification of electronically stored information
that may be relevant in this action. 
Jiang
Decl., Exh. 6 at pp. 6-7. 
Plaintiffs
also request production of thirty-five (35) categories of documents including, 
but not limited to, all lemon law documents and all
records, invoices, and other documentation relating to the lease of the subject
vehicle. Jiang Decl., Exh. 6 at pp. 8-12. 
Analysis 
Initially,
the court rejects defendant’s argument that plaintiffs have failed to establish
good cause for the matters on which PMQ testimony is sought. Opp’n at p.
4:14-5:6. Defendant cites to CCP § 2031.310(b)(1) in support of its argument.
Such code section, however, concerns motions to compel further responses. See
CCP § 2031.310. Here, plaintiffs are seeking to compel deposition testimony and
the production of documents at deposition. CCP § 2031.310 therefore has no
applicability to the instant motion. 
The
Matters for Examination 
Defendant
argues that matters for examination nos. 18, 30, 32-34 seek grossly overbroad
testimony and that matters comprising such topics consists of information
“protected from discovery by the attorney-client privilege or the work product
doctrine, or would consist of discovery on discovery.” Opp’n at p. 5:20-25. The
court, however, notes that plaintiffs only seek deposition testimony on 19
topics. 
Defendant
also contends that a majority of the matters of examination including nos. 1,
4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 17, 22, 26, and 31 “seek testimony regarding [p]laintiff’s
alleged request for a vehicle repurchase” and that “[p]laintiff did not make a
repurchase request to Honda.” Opp’n at p. 5:12-15.) Only matter for examination
no. 7 concerns a repurchase request. Thus, the court fails to see the
applicability of defendant’s argument as plaintiffs have indicated that
defendant failed to repurchase the subject vehicle. Mot. at p. 2:6-7. 
The court
rejects defendant’s argument that the discovery that plaintiffs seek is neither
relevant nor proportional to the amount in controversy nor important to
resolving the issues in this case. Opp’n at p. 6:8-8:22. 
Here, the
court finds that the matters for examination articulated in the Third Amended
Deposition Notice are relevant to plaintiffs proving their claims in this
action. The matters for examination relate to: the purported defect in the
infotainment system, the subject vehicle, the dispute resolution program of
defendant, defendant’s search for documents that may be relevant to this
action, or obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Jiang
Decl., Exh. 6 at pp. 6-7. The court does not find the requested matters for
testimony to be overbroad. The court notes that the objecting party has the
burden of justifying any objections to discovery. Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255. In law and motion practice,
factual evidence is presented to the court by way of declarations. Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. The
declaration of Zaeema Ejaz in opposition to the motion is devoid of any factual
basis for the objections to the Third Amended Deposition Notice at issue.
Defendant has therefore failed to justify any of its objections to the
discovery at issue. The court does not find any of the matters for examination
to be vague, overly broad, harassing, unduly burdensome, or ambiguous.
Defendant has also not substantiated its objections on the grounds of the
attorney-client privilege, work product doctrine, or that the matters seek
confidential/proprietary information.
The Court
would also note that objections regarding issues of claimed privilege rarely justify
a total refusal to produce a witness at deposition.  Generally the assertion of a claim of
privilege requires an analysis of the particular inquiry.
The Court
therefore GRANTS plaintiffs’ request that defendant produce a PMQ to provide
testimony at deposition on the categories for examination set forth in the
Third Amended Deposition Notice.
The
Request for Production of Documents
The
Motion appears to Defendant and the Court to request that the Deposition AND
DOCUMENTS described in the Notice be ordered produced.  “The categories seeks testimony and documents
directly relevant…”  However, Plaintiff clarified
in the Reply:
“AHM’s
Opposition also makes arguments related to document requests (which are a
non-issue in this particular motion).”
“Plaintiffs
are perplexed as to why AHM would argue against producing documents; when the
sole issue in the present issue is that AHM has refused to provide dates for
deposition. Plaintiffs do not seek any production of documents through the
instant Motion.”
Therefore
the Court need not address the document portion of the Deposition Notice.
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED. Defendant is to produce a person most qualified within 10
days of the date of notice of this order to testify on the matters for
examination identified in plaintiffs’ Third Amended Notice of Deposition of the
Person Most Qualified for Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.