 Case Number:  23STCV13973    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
24, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:   Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Elena Jahnke v. Blue Cross of California, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV13973
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Elena
Jahnke
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            This action arises from an insurer’s delayed approval of a
referral for medical treatment. On June 16, 2023, Plaintiff, Elena Jahnke,
filed a Complaint against Defendants, Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue
Cross (“Anthem”) and Preferred IPA of California (“Preferred IPA”), asserting
causes of action for (1) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Violations of Business & Professions
Code section 17200, and (4) Negligence.  The
First, Second, and Third Causes of Action are alleged against Anthem.  A copy of the policy is attached to the
Complaint. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff had health insurance with Anthem.  Per an agreement between Anthem and its
medical group, Preferred IPA, any referral requests were to be reviewed for
approval or denial by Preferred IPA.  On
June 17, 2022, Plaintiff’s neurosurgeon determined Plaintiff needed prompt
treatment to address arteriovenous malformations on her brain and submitted an
urgent referral for an endovascular surgeon to Preferred IPA.  However, Preferred IPA did not respond to the
referral within 96 hours as required under the policy.  Plaintiff’s request remained pending for six
months.  In that time, Plaintiff’s physical
symptoms worsened.  Defendants eventually
approved the referral only after Plaintiff suffered a grand mal seizure.  
 
            On November
6, 2023, Anthem filed this demurrer to the First, Second, and Third Causes of
Action of the Complaint, and concurrently filed a Motion to Strike punitive
damages and attorney fees.  
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Anthem replied.[1]
 
II.        DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
 
A.    
Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
                A
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained
only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City of Atascadero
v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) 
Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to
specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or
conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   
 
            A demurrer
may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading
can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
B.    
Application
 
Anthem makes four arguments:
(1) the demurrer should be sustained with respect to the entire Complaint
because (a) the Complaint is vague and uncertain and (b) Anthem cannot be held vicariously
liable for Preferred IPA’s delay in reviewing Plaintiff’s referral; (2) the First
Cause of Action fails because there is no alleged breach and no alleged conduct
rising to the level of bad faith; (3) the Second Cause of Action fails because
there is no alleged breached; and (4) the Third Cause of Action fails because Plaintiff
fails to allege facts sufficient to state an Unfair Competition Law (UCL) case
of action.
 
1.     
Uncertainty, Direct Liability, and Vicarious Liability
 
 “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  “[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.”¿ (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 848, fn. 3.)


a.     
No Individual Allegations
 
            Anthem argues the Complaint is
uncertain because there are no individualized allegations asserted against
Anthem.  Not so.  The Complaint alleges, in relevant part, that
Plaintiff contacted Anthem on more than one occasion to get Anthem to authorize
her referral after being told her referral was still pending with Preferred
IPA.  (Complaint, ¶ 6 (Factual
Background).)  The Complaint further
alleges in its First Cause of Action that Anthem unreasonably failed to
adequately investigate the request for benefits and unreasonably failed to have
policies, procedures, or guidelines to ensure that claims and requests for
treatment are handled in good faith including the performance of full, fair,
objective, and thorough investigations, among other claims.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 23, 30.)  
 
b.     
Vicarious Liability
 
            Anthem further argues it cannot be
held vicariously liable for Preferred IPA’s handling of Plaintiff’s referral.  This argument lacks merit.
 
The Complaint does
not seek to hold Anthem vicariously liable for Preferred IPA’s conduct.[2]  Indeed, there are no allegations resembling
vicarious liability.  Rather, the
allegations seek to hold Anthem directly liable for its failure to have
policies or procedures in place to address situations where a referral is not
timely approved or denied, thereby delaying medically necessary treatment.  As alleged, Plaintiff contacted Anthem
October 3, 2022, and December 1, 2022 to authorize her neurosurgeon’s referral
request yet Anthem failed to authorize it. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 5-6, 13-15, 24, 30.)  Further, Anthem unreasonably failed to
authorize the urgent request, (Id. at ¶ 4), that the referral request was to a
specialist to provide medically necessary treatment (Id. at ¶¶ 3-4, 13), that
the referral request was still pending with Preferred IPA (Id. ¶¶ 5-8), that Anthem
was supposed to investigate why the referral had neither been denied nor issued
(Id. ¶¶ 6 (Introduction), 15, 30), and that it was in breach of the “Timely
access to care” provision in the policy.  (See Complaint, Ex. A at p. 33; see also Complaint,
¶¶ 12-15, 23, 30.)  
 
Moreover, Plaintiff
argues once Anthem learned that Preferred IPA had not provided Plaintiff with a
timely referral to a specialist, Anthem should have authorized it and/or
assisted Plaintiff with obtaining the authorization.  This too is not an allegation based upon
vicarious liability, but direct liability. 
 
In sum, the
Complaint adequately alleges Anthem’s direct liability.  The Complaint is not so incomprehensible that
Anthem cannot respond.  On these grounds,
the demurrer is OVERRULED.   
 
2.  The First Cause of Action -- Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
To allege a cause
of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) plaintiff and defendant
entered into a contract; (2) plaintiff did all, or substantially all, of the
significant things that the contract required him to do, or that he was excused
from having to do those things; (3) all conditions required for defendant’s
performance had occurred, or were excused; (4) defendant engaged in specified
conduct that plaintiff claims prevented plaintiff from receiving the benefits
under the contract; (5) that by doing so, defendant did not act fairly and in
good faith; and (6) plaintiff was harmed by defendant’s conduct.¿ (CACI No.
325.)¿ 
 
Anthem argues the
First Cause of Action fails because there is no alleged breach or conduct
rising to the level of bad faith.  The
court disagrees.
 
As detailed above,
the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff contacted Anthem directly about the status
of her urgent referral.  Under the terms
of the policy, Plaintiff was entitled to a timely response to her urgent
referral—to wit, within 96 hours after the request is made.  However, Plaintiff’s referral stood pending for
six months.  Moreover, in addition to
Plaintiff’s direct communication with Anthem, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges
that Anthem knew of Preferred IPA’s failure to approve or deny the referral in
the allotted time and did not act accordingly. 
 
Moreover, the
Complaint sufficiently alleges bad faith. 
Plaintiff submitted a referral which stood pending for six months.  As alleged, Anthem did nothing to ensure
Plaintiff received a timely decision on the referral nor did Anthem implement a
policy or procedure to rectify Preferred IPA’s failure to timely act on the
referral.  As a result, Plaintiff’s necessary
medical treatment was unnecessarily delayed. 
The court accepts these allegations as true at the pleading stage.  (Mitchell, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1007.
 
For these reasons,
the demurrer to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
3.  Second Cause of Action -- Breach of
Contract
 
The essential
elements of a breach of contract cause of action are: (1) the existence of a
valid contract between a plaintiff and a defendant, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance, (3) the defendant’s unjustified failure to perform, and (4)
damages to the plaintiff caused by the defendant’s breach.¿ (See CACI No.
303.) 
 
Anthem argues the
breach of contract claim fails because there is no alleged breach.   However, as discussed in the preceding
section, the court finds the Complaint adequately pleads a breach.  
 
Undeterred, Anthem
argues in its Reply that the Complaint does not allege a breach because there
are no allegations that Anthem was aware that the referral was urgent nor are
there any allegations that Anthem had authority to approve or deny the referral
request.  The court is not persuaded.  The allegations indicate Plaintiff’s referral was
pending for six months.  Six months
exceeds any time frame for any treatment request, whether urgent or
non-urgent.  (See Complaint, Ex. A., pp.
33-34; see also Kotler v. PacifiCare of California (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 950, 956 (finding the defendant health insurer’s failure to provide
the plaintiff with a referral to a specialist sooner than six weeks was a
breach of an implied-in-law obligation).) 
To Anthem’s point that the Complaint does not allege Anthem had
authority to approve or deny the request, the point is not dispositive.  The policy, attached to the Complaint,
provided that its policyholders, including Plaintiff, were entitled to timely
healthcare.  Plaintiff entered into that
policy with Anthem and sought Anthem’s intervention for the delay in the
approval, or denial, of her referral.  The court liberally construes from this
allegation that Anthem had the authority to approve or deny her referral.  Indeed, Plaintiff contact Anthem directly for
approval.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
4.  The Third Cause of Action -- Violation of
the UCL
 
The UCL is
codified at Business and Professions Code, section 17200 et seq.  Section
17204 of the UCL provides that a private person “who has suffered injury in
fact and has lost money or property as a result of the unfair competition” may
bring a 17200 action.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.)  “To bring a
UCL claim, a plaintiff must show either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business act or practice, or (2) unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising. [Citation.]  Because the UCL is written in the disjunctive,
it establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which
are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”  (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car,
Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970, citations and quotations
omitted.) 
 
Anthem demurs to
the UCL claim on three grounds: (a) Plaintiff does not have standing to bring a
UCL claim because Complaint does not adequately  allege a loss of money or property, (b) there
are no alleged unlawful, fraudulent, or unfair acts, and (c) there are no
remedies available.  Given the court’s
ruling, the court does not address the second and third arguments.
 
Loss
of Money or Property
 
To have standing
to bring a UCL claim, a person must have suffered injury in fact and have lost
money or property as a result of the unfair competition.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.)
“There are innumerable ways in which economic injury from unfair competition
may be shown. A plaintiff may (1) surrender in a transaction more, or acquire
in a transaction less, than he or she otherwise would have; (2) have a present
or future property interest diminished; (3) be deprived of money or property to
which he or she has a cognizable claim; or (4) be required to enter into a
transaction, costing money or property, that would otherwise have been
unnecessary.” (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310,
323.)
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff lost money or property.  (See Complaint, ¶ 32.)  Anthem attacks this allegation as conclusory.
 The court agrees.  There are no factual allegations describing
the extent or nature of Plaintiff’s economic injury.  The Complaint does not adequately allege
Plaintiff’s standing to bring a UCL claim.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
 
III.      DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Anthem seeks an
order striking allegations of punitive damages and attorney’s fees from the
Complaint.  Plaintiff concedes attorney’s
fees should be stricken (see Opposition, p. 6:6-7.)  As such, the court only addresses the
sufficiency of the allegations as to punitive damages.
 
A.    
 Legal Standard 
 
Punitive damages
may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury
to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct
rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level
which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]”  (Lackner
v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)  “As amended to include
[despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an
intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and
conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests.  The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College Hospital
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference
to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive
damage awards.”  (Id.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which
is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct
has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated
with crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title
Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155; see also Angie M. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 [“Conscious disregard for the safety
of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probably
dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to
avoid such consequences”].) 
 
A motion to strike
punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima
facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Mere
negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award”
for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975)
50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)  The allegations supporting a request for
punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations
without sufficient facts are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) 
 
B.    
Application 
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges that
Anthem’s conduct was despicable and carried on with a willful and conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and constituted malice, oppression, or fraud.  (Complaint, ¶ 20.)  Given the court’s finding that the Complaint adequately
alleges Anthem’s bad faith breach of the health insurance policy, the court
further finds punitive damages are adequately pleaded.  Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive
damages is DENIED.
 
 IV.
      CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the entirety of the Complaint is OVERRULED
as is the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action.  The demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is granted.
 
The motion to strike attorney fees is granted.  The motion to strike punitive damages is
denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file her First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross is
ordered to serve and file its responsive pleading within 30 days of service of
the amended pleading.
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   January 24, 2024                                




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior
  Court¿ 




 
 
 
            


