  Case Number:  23SMCP00011    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sanchez v. Sanchez
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00011
MOTION:                  Motion
for Reconsideration
HEARING DATE:   7/1/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A non-prevailing party may make a
motion to reconsider and enter a different order under the following
conditions: (1) brought before the same judge that made the order sought to be
reconsidered; (2) made within 10 days after service upon the party of the
notice of entry of the order (extended under CCP § 1013 for type of service);
(3) based on new or different facts, circumstances or law than those before the
court at the time of the original ruling; (4) supported by a declaration
stating the previous order, by which judge it was made, and the new or
different facts, circumstances or law claimed to exist; and (5) the motion must
be made and decided before entry of judgment. (CCP, § 1008.)  
 
The legislature
intended to restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party
offers the court some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some
valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995)
32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)¿¿Thus, “[t]o be
entitled to reconsideration, a party should show that (1) evidence of new or
different facts exist, and (2) the party has a satisfactory explanation for
failing to produce such evidence at an earlier time.” (Mink v. Superior
Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.) The moving party must demonstrate
that such newly discovered evidence could not,
with reasonable diligence, have previously discovered and produced. (Wilcox
v. Ford (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1170.) 
 
The court may also reconsider its
prior interim orders on its own motion to correct its own errors. (Le
Francoise v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107-09.)¿ 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Michael Sanchez moves for
reconsideration of this Court’s May 8, 2024’s order denying leave to file a
Fourth Amended Complaint following Defendant Lauren Sanchez’s sustained demurrer.
Strictly speaking, the motion must be denied due to Plaintiff’s failure to
comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. 
 
First,
there are issues with the notice and timing of the motion. Plaintiff initially
filed the motion for reconsideration within ten days, on May 16, 2024. However,
as Defendants observe, this timely motion was not properly noticed. Plaintiff again
cites the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. As the Court has already warned,
the FRCP does not apply here. Plaintiff attempted to remedy this issue by Plaintiff
filing a request to amend the motion for reconsideration on May 22, 2024,
noting the error and the correct authority—Code of Civil Procedure section
1008. Of course, this filing was beyond the 10-day period to bring a motion for
reconsideration.  
 
Second, the initial reconsideration
motion and the request for amendment both fail to provide a code-compliant
affidavit. Both motions attach Mr. Sanchez’s May 8, 2024, declaration citing,
in part, the “sample emails” attached as Exhibit A. Mr. Sanchez asserts that
these sample emails show that he provided further services and invoices to Ms.
Sanchez in February, after the January invoices were paid. If credited, the
emails would support Mr. Sanchez’s contentions that he worked pursuant to the
consulting agreement, entitling him to further payments and reimbursement under
the agreement. However, this declaration is not stated under penalty of perjury
as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5. This section requires
that the declarant verify that they executed the certification in California or
under the perjury laws of California. Plaintiff only states that the
declaration was “sworn” and “filed under penalty of Perjury” without indicating
whether he swore in California or under the laws of California. 
 
Third, Plaintiff relies exclusively
on information and evidence that was available to him at the time of the May 8,
2024, hearing. In fact, Plaintiff made the above points at the hearing, which the
court considered as a proffer of evidence for leave to amend. Therefore, there
are no new facts which would justify reconsideration. 
 
To grant the motion under the
circumstances, the Court would have to exercise a considerable amount of
leniency to overlook these issues. Even though he is in pro per, Plaintiff must be “treated like any
other party and is entitled to the same, but no greater[,] consideration than
other¿litigants¿and attorneys.”¿(Rappleyea v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal.4th
975, 985.) As such, Plaintiff had to comply with section 1008, but failed to do
so.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as a
motion for reconsideration.
 
The issue for the Court, however, is that
a plaintiff’s proffer of new facts in support of a cause of action may be made
even at the appellate level when the plaintiff is appealing a court’s
sustaining of a demurrer without leave to amend.  Therefore, despite the
above-described inadequacies, the Court will reconsider its ruling regarding leave
to amend on its own motion. (See
Le Francoise v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107-09 (a court may
reconsider its prior interim orders on its own motion to correct its own
errors.) 
 
Upon review of the proffered
emails, the law on the sham pleading doctrine, and the prior pleadings, the
Court is tentatively inclined to grant Plaintiff leave to amend to allege a
single cause of action for breach of contract. The Court believes that it applied
too exacting of a standard in applying the sham pleading doctrine in its earlier
decision.  
 
At the hearing, Plaintiff proffered
that he could amend the pleadings to add facts regarding at least one additional
invoice that was not paid. The
Court indicated that it was concerned with Plaintiff’s proffered amendments
would violate the sham pleading doctrine. “Under the sham pleading doctrine,
plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful allegations, without
explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks raised in demurrers
or motions for summary judgment.” (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 408, 425 [italics added].) “‘Generally, after an amended pleading
has been filed, courts will disregard the original pleading. However, an
exception to this rule is found ... where an amended complaint attempts to
avoid defects set forth in a prior complaint by ignoring them. The court may
examine the prior complaint to ascertain whether the amended complaint is
merely a sham.’ Moreover, any inconsistencies with prior pleadings must be
explained; if the pleader fails to do so, the court may disregard the
inconsistent allegations. (Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014)
230 Cal.App.4th 336, 343; ese Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck Development
Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 946 [the doctrine allows the court to not accept
as true any new “allegations contrary to factual allegations in former pleading
in the same case”].)
 
The Court found that certain
allegations in the TAC and SAC alleged that the breaches occurred “after Mr.
Sanchez submitted Invoices for the monthly fees and costs, and after Ms.
Sanchez paid the Invoices.” (TAC ¶137.) Read critically, this statement
contradicts any contentions that Ms. Sanchez breached the contract by failing
to pay invoices, because such breaches occurred “after [she] paid the
invoices.” Moreover, the TAC only provides conclusory allegations concerning Mr.
Sanchez’s further performance and Ms. Sanchez’s failure to pay. (See TAC ¶¶
230-234.) Strictly construed, any further amendments alleging unpaid invoices after
January would be contradicted by these pleadings. However, liberally construed,
the allegations regarding the breaches and payment of invoices are ambiguous. In
all the pleadings, Plaintiff is not clear what “breaches” he is necessarily
referring to, the breaches of the consulting agreement’s payment terms, or the
various irrelevant breaches inserted into the pleadings such as the alleged
extortion and defamation. (See TAC ¶¶ 22, 96, 136.) At a minimum, such inconsistencies
could be reasonably explained as simply a mistake. 
 
Accordingly, the court is inclined
to provide plaintiff with one final opportunity to state a claim for breach of
the consulting agreement and explain any inconsistent allegations between the
prior pleadings. Plaintiff must also allege further facts of the services
performed after the January invoice. 
Plaintiff must keep in mind that this would be a breach of contract
cause of action based upon a failure to pay invoices pursuant to a consulting
agreement.  As such, the Court orders
Plaintiff to exclude from any fourth amended complaint the numerous extraneous
and irrelevant allegations that littered the TAC and virtually every other
pleading filed by Plaintiff. (See, e.g., TAC ¶¶ 22-42, among most of the other
paragraphs.) In light of the straightforward nature of the surviving potential
cause of action, and Plaintiff’s insistence of including numerous inflammatory and
irrelevant allegations in his filings, the Court will limit any potential
fourth amended complaint to 12 pages. 
The failure to comply with this order will result in monetary sanctions.  
 
Finally, at the May 20, 2024,
hearing, the Court warned Plaintiff that his repeated references to the Court
being corrupt and incompetent must end or the Court would consider contempt sanctions
against Plaintiff.  (Rocos Decl., Exh. B:
5/20/24 RT: 3: 22-4:10.)  In his May 22,
2024, Request for Leave to Amend Motion, which was two days after this warning,
Plaintiff notes the Court’s “condescending scoldings about ‘interruptions’” and
“chilling threats of incarceration” from a biased judge who chooses to
ignore “key facts, hard evidence, blatant lies, crimes . . . and fraud upon the
Court etc.”  (Mtn, p. 11.)  The Court’s May 20, 2024, message to Plaintiff
has been apparently ignored.  The ad hominin
attacks on the Court are irrelevant to the proceedings, much as the constant attacks
on opposing counsel.  Plaintiff is again
warned about these attacks on the Court’s integrity.  There will be no further warnings.            