  Case Number:  23CHCV01204    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/26/24
Case #23CHCV01204
 
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Motion filed on 3/22/24.
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Safora Nowrouzi
CLIENT: Plaintiff Kyle A. Perez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Safora
Nowrouzi as counsel for Plaintiff Kyle A. Perez in this action.  
 
RULING: The motion is granted.  
 
On 3/22/24, attorney Safora Nowrouzi filed and served the
instant motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Kyle A. Perez (Plaintiff)
in this action on the grounds “the essential relationship of trust and
confidence that underpins the attorney-client relationship has been irreparably
compromised.”  (See Nowrouzi Decl.
No.2).
 
On 7/19/24, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to
the motion wherein Plaintiff admits that the relationship between he and
attorney Nowrouzi has “deteriorated due to disagreements over litigation
strategy.”  (See Perez Decl.
¶6).  Additionally, Plaintiff claims that
attorney Nowrouzi “has not diligently pursued [his] claims.”  Id. 
The motion also implies that Plaintiff believes he has a claim against
attorney Nowrouzi for legal malpractice based on advice attorney Nowrouzi gave
to Plaintiff regarding this case.  (See
Opposition, generally).  Despite the
foregoing, Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion and require attorney
Nowrouzi to continue to represent him in this matter and during settlement
negotiations claiming that he will be prejudiced if attorney Nowrouzi is
permitted to withdraw because “the case is at a critical stage of settlement
negotiations.”  (Perez Decl. ¶¶7-8).
 
Based on the declarations of attorney Nowrouzi and
Plaintiff, it is clear that that there has been an irreparable breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship which warrants relieving attorney Nowrouzi as
Plaintiff’s counsel in this matter. 
Plaintiff admits that he received notice of attorney Nowrouzi’s
intention to withdraw on 4/2/24.  (Perez
Decl. ¶4).  Therefore, Plaintiff has had
almost 4 months to retain replacement counsel to assist him in this
matter.  Plaintiff’s failure to do so
does not justify denying the motion under the circumstances.   
 
 
 