  Case Number:  23CHCV01932    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  8/7/24




Case
  Name: Jakeline Cabrera, Juan Cabrera v. Gabriel Ramirez and Does 1 to 50




Case No.:
  23CHCV01932



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

AUGUST 7, 2024
 

APPLICATION FOR DETERMINATION OF
GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT (C.C.P. Section 877.6(a)(2)); MOTION TO CHALLENGE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 22CHCV01932

 
Motion
filed: 3/12/24 
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants Erik Ramirez and
Marcelino Ramirez (collectively, “Cross-Defendants” or “Applicants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Gabriel Ramirez (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant”)
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: an
order determining that the settlement entered into between Cross-Defendants and
Plaintiff Jakeline Cabrera and Juan Cabrera (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) was
made in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a)(2), and dismissing the Cross-Complaint and barring future claims against
Cross-Defendants for equitable comparative contribution. Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
motion seeks to contest the good faith settlement.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The application
is GRANTED. The motion to contest is DENIED. The Applicants’ request for an
order dismissing the Cross-Complaint and barring future claims is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on January 17, 2023, on the westbound Interstate 210 Freeway in
Sylmar, California (the “Accident”).
 
On July 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against
Defendant/Cross-Complainant for personal injuries arising from the Accident.
The Complaint alleges motor vehicle and general negligence causes of action.
(Compl. ¶ 10.) Subsequently, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed an Answer to the
Complaint on December 1, 2023.
 
On the same day, December 1, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed his Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants,
alleging indemnity contribution. Subsequently, Cross-Defendants filed their
Answer to the Cross-Complaint on February 29, 2024.  
 
On March 12, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed the instant
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement (the “Application”)
Subsequently, Defendant/Cross-Complaint filed his Opposition to the Application
on April 2, 2024. A separate Motion to Challenge the Good Faith Settlement was filed by Defendant/Cross-Complainant on May 9, 2024
(“Motion to Challenge”).
 
On July 23, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed their Opposition to
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Opposition and Motion to Challenge.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2)
provides, in pertinent part, that “a settling party may give notice of
settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be given by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service
shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice,
application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a
nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the
settlement.”
 
The determination as to whether a settlement is in good faith is a
matter left to the discretion of the trial court.” (Mattco Forge,
Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349
(Mattco).)
 
A.   
Timeliness
 
“Within 25 days of
the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days
of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to
contest the good faith of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).) (Underlines added.) “No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it
was untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to
consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).)
 
Here, the Application was
served on April 2, 2024, establishing a deadline for a nonsettling party to
file a motion to challenge by April 29, 2024, which is the first court day at
the end of the 25-day period. Applicants argue that
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Motion to Challenge, filed on May 12, 2024, exceeded the time limit.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
asserts that he had previously served and filed the Opposition papers on April
2, 2024. However, a separate filing was made subsequently due to a clerical
mistake that the hearing on Motion Re: Opposition to Good Faith Settlement was
not reserved. (Mot. to Challenge, at p. 7.)
 
 
Notably, Applicants assert that Defendant/Cross-Complainant himself accepted the global settlement offer by signing the
release on November 30, 2023, and agreeing to accept the $7,500.00 settlement.
(Capra-Cunningham Decl. ¶ 8.) This agreement makes Defendant/Cross-Complainant
no longer a “nonsettling party” to which the 25 days limit explicitly applies.
 
Furthermore, given the clerical mistakes presented by
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, the Court considers the Motion to Challenge in its
analysis below. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).)
 
B.    
Determination
of Good Faith Settlement
 
The California Supreme Court
held in Tech-Bilt that the
trial court’s determination of good faith is based on “a number of factors,”
including “[1] a rough approximation of
plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, [2] the
amount paid in settlement, [3] the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, . . . [4] a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than he would if he were found liable after a trial. . . [5] the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as [6]
the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.” ¿(Tech-Bilt, Inc.v.
Woodword-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt); see also Far West Financial
Corp. v. D&S Co.¿(1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 816, fn. 16 [expanding on Tech-Bilt
factors].) “[W]hen the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is
incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d
1251, 1261 (City of Grand Terrace).
 
i.                   
Rough
Proximation and Settling Defendant’s Proportionate Liability
 
 The
first Tech–Bilt factor consists of two parts: a rough
approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling defendant’s
proportionate liability. (Cahill v. San
Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 962 (Cahill).)
 
When approximating a plaintiff’s total recovery or the
settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should . . . not yearn
for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.¿ Because the application of
section 877.6 requires an educated guess as to what may occur should the case
go to trial, all that can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive
conclusion.”¿ (North County Contractor’s Assn. v. Touchstone Ins. Services (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090.)
 
Furthermore, the defendant's settlement figure must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be. (Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 909 (Dole).)  After the court first makes a rough
approximation of the total amount the plaintiff is likely to recover, the court
then determines what, if any, the settling defendant’s proportionate share of
that total recovery would be, and then determines whether the settlement amount
was “within the ballpark” of reasonable settlement amounts based on the first
two factors.” (Ibid.)
 
Here,
the settlement terms stipulate the total amount is $30,000.00, which represents
the full amount of the insurance policy limit held by Cross-Defendants.
(Capra-Cunningham Decl. ¶ 3.) The $30,000.00 total amount is allocated as follows:
$7,500.00 to Plaintiff Jackline Cabrera (“Jakeline”), $7,500.00 to Plaintiff
Juan Cabrera (“Juan”), $$7,500.00 to nonparty Jessica Cardona (“Jessica”), and
$7,500.00 to Defendant/Cross-Complainant. (Capra-Cunningham Decl., ¶ 4; Ex.
“A.”)
 
As to
the potential total liability, Defendant/Cross-Complainant asserts that
Plaintiff Jakeline has alleged $6,710.00 in past medical expenses and as well
as future treatment amounting to $15,000 for each injection. (Mot. to
Challenge, at p. 4.) Similarly, it is stated that Plaintiff Juan has alleged
$9,0074.14 in past medical expenses and future medical treatment amounting to
$15,000 for each injection. (Ibid.) Additionally, both Plaintiffs also
allege unspecified amount for pain and suffering. (Ibid.) Notably, these
claimed amounts do not reflect any potential reductions. (See e.g. Howell v.
Hamilton Meats & Provision, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541.) 
 
In
his Cross-Complaint, Defendant/Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants’
car caused his car to collide with the back of the car in which Plaintiffs were
riding. (Capra-Cunningham Decl. ¶ 2.) In their Answers to the Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Complaints assert defenses of (1) comparative negligence, (2)
apportionment, (3) failure to mitigate damages, and (4) failure to state a
cause of action. (See generally 2/29/24 Answer).
 
Based
on the limited information before the Court, it is unreliable at this stage to predict
a liability distribution. However, even if Cross-Defendants are ultimately
found to be more than 50% liable for the Accident, the $30,000 paid to the
settling parties reasonably constitutes a rough approximation of their potential
liability.
 
Furthermore,
it is important to note that the reasonableness of the settling defendant's
figure must be assessed at the time of the settlement. (Dole, supra,
242 Cal.App.4th at p. 909.) Defendant/Cross-Complainant concedes that at the
time of settlement with Plaintiffs, it was – and in fact still is – entirely
uncertain whether Plaintiffs will actually require any future treatments for
their alleged injuries and if so, how much these future treatments will cost. (Mot.
to Challenge, at p. 6.)  Additionally, the
Court notes that Defendant/Cross-Complainant himself accepted the global
settlement with Cross-Defendants (Capra-Cunningham Decl. ¶ 8), indicating his acknowledgment
of the reasonableness and fairness of the settlement terms at the time they
were agreed upon. 
 
            Based on the above records and its own judicial experience, the
Court rationally concludes that a reasonable person could find that the settlement
amount is within the ballpark of their proportionate liability.   
 
            Therefore, the first
and second Tech-Bilt factor supports the determination of good faith
settlement.
            
ii.                 
Settling Defendant’s
Financial Condition
 
Here, Cross-Defendant
Erick Ramirez (“Erick”) attests that the settlement amount is the policy limit per
accident under his State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company Policy No. 6565-456-75,
and he did not carry any other liability insurance or carry any excess coverage
or umbrella policies. (Erick Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
Based on this
record and given the Court’s previous determination that the settlement amount
is already in the ballpark of Cross-Defendants’ proportionate liability, it
concludes that the analysis of this factor is also in favor of the
determination of the good faith settlement.
 
iii.               
The
Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious Conduct Aimed to Injure the
Interests of Nonsettling Defendants
 
The “existence
of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants” is another relevant consideration. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)
 
            Here, there is no
evidence of “the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of” Anderson. There is also no argument made by Defendant/Cross-Complainant
in relation to this factor. Thus, the Court finds this Tech-Bilt factor
supports the determination of good faith settlement.
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court concludes that its
analysis of Tech-Bilt factors supports the determination of good faith
settlement.
 
            Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Application for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement.
 
C.   
Request for
Order Dismissing Pending Cross-Complaint
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6, subdivision (c), “determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” 
 
Procedural
requirements for good faith settlement determinations pursuant to section 877.6
include special and distinct procedures
established by case law. “Specifically, it is error for a court automatically
to dismiss such a cross-complaint following a good faith settlement
determination in the absence of a separate motion seeking to dispose of the cross-complaint, such
as a demurrer, summary judgment or motion to dismiss. (Paragon Real Estate Group
of San Francisco, Inc. v. Hansen (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 177, 188 (Paragon”);
see, e.g., Shane v. Superior Court
(1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 1237, 1246 (Shane) [“A distinct procedure is not only
procedurally necessary but also serves the important salutary function of
focusing the court's attention distinctly on two completely different
substantive questions, whether the settlement was in good faith and whether the
claim sought to be dismissed is of such a nature as to be barred by a good
faith settlement.”]; Housing Group v. Superior Court
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 549, 553 (Housing Group).)
 
            In
alignment with the precedents set in Paragon, Shane, and Housing
Group, the Court determines that Cross-Defendants are required to file a
separate motion seeking to dispose of the Cross-Complaint against them.
 
            Accordingly,
the Applicants’ Request for Order dismissing the pending Cross-Complaint and
barring future claims against Cross-Defendants for equitable comparative
contribution is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Cross-Defendants’
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Defendants’
Request for Order Dismissing the Pending Cross-Complaint against Them and
Barring Any Further Claims for Equitable Comparative Contribution is DENIED.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
Motion to Challenge the Good Faith Settlement Application is DENIED.
 
Applicants
to give notice.