 Case Number:  24TRCV02269    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
ADAM
  GARASAD, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02269




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LINDA
  VEERKAMP,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 26, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Adam Garasad
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for Summary
Judgment
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            On July 9, 2024, plaintiff Adam
Garasad filed an unlawful detainer complaint against defendant Linda Veerkamp
based on CCP §1161a.
            On August 15, 2024, defendant
(self-represented) filed an answer.
            On September 18, 2024, defendant
filed a substitution of attorney and is now represented by counsel.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his
or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action.  Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  Id. 
“’An issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the
evidence.  It is not created by
speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.’”  Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 1001, 1014
(citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Adam Garasad requests
summary judgment for unlawful detainer in favor of plaintiff and against all
defendants on the ground that there is no triable issue of fact and as a matter
of law, plaintiff prevails.
The unlawful detainer complaint alleges
that defendant resides in and is the former owner of the real property located
at 18320 Regina Avenue, Torrance. 
Complaint, ¶2.  Plaintiff is the
current owner and entitled to possession of the premises/subject property.  Id., ¶4. 
On May 9, 2024, plaintiff acquired title to the subject property at a
duly noticed trustee’s sale, and such title as perfected by the recordation of
a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale on May 17, 2024, citing to Exhibit 1 for true and
correct copy of TDUS.  Id., ¶5.  On June 3, 2024, a Grant Deed was recorded
transferring title to Adam Garasad, who originally acquired title under his
nickname, Dimo Garasad, citing to Exhibit 2 for true and correct copy of grant
deed.  Id., ¶6.  Pursuant to CCP §1161a, on July 2, 2024,
plaintiff caused to be served upon defendants a three/thirty/ninety day written
notice requiring defendants to quit and deliver possession of the subject
property to plaintiff after expiration of the notice to vacate, citing to
exhibit 3 for true and correct copy of notice and proof of service.  Id., ¶9. 
No defendant is entitled to more than three days’ notice to quit
occupation of the property because defendant, the former homeowner and a party
to the foreclosed note and deed of trust, still occupies the property.  Id., ¶10. 
More than three days have elapsed and defendants have failed and
continue to fail to deliver possession. 
Id., ¶11.
“In any of the following cases, a
person who holds over and continues in possession of . . . real property after
a three-day written notice to quit the property has been served upon the
person, or if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also
upon such subtenant, as prescribed in Section 1162, may be removed therefrom as
prescribed in this chapter: . . . (3) Where the property has been sold in
accordance with Section 2924 of the Civil Code, under a power of sale contained
in a deed of trust executed by such person, or a person under whom such person
claims, and the title under the sale has been duly perfected.”  CCP §1161a(b)(3).
Under CCP §1161a(b)(3), three
conditions must be satisfied as prerequisites to filing an unlawful
detainer:  (1) property that has been
sold in accordance with Civil Code §2924; (2) pursuant to a power of sale
contained in a deed of trust executed by the holdover possessor, or a person
under who such person claims; and (3) the title under the sale has been duly
perfected.  See Dr. Leevil, LLC v.
Westlake Health Care Center (2018) 6 Cal.5th 474, 479.  Duly perfected title requires that title be
recorded, and title must be perfected prior to service of a 3-day notice under
CCP §1161a(b)(3).  Id. 
Plaintiff presents evidence of a
proper trustee’s sale pursuant to a power of sale and the rebuttable
presumption of a properly noticed sale under Civil Code §2924(c); (2) duly
perfected title by delivery and recordation; and (3) service of a 3-day notice
to quit after a proper trustee’s sale under Civil Code §2924 and due perfection
of title.  Plaintiff filed the complaint
more than three days after service of the notice.  See Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts (“PUMF”) 1-12; Request for Judicial Notice (Exhs.
1-5); Katherine Meleski decl. and Exh. 1 (notice to quit); Adam Garasad decl.,
Hector Flores (Exhs. 1, 2 – notice to quit and proof of service).
There is no opposition.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that plaintiff has met his
burden of showing that there is no defense to the cause of action for unlawful
detainer because he has proved each element of the cause of action under Civil
Code §1161a.
There is no opposition.  Thus, defendant has not met her burden of
presenting sufficient evidence to raise a triable issue of material fact.
The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to submit
a form of Judgment.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.