 Case Number:  22TRCV01523    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JUAN
  HERNANDEZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01523




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MONICA
  JENKINS,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 26,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Mindy Bish,
Esq./Bish & Cutting APC for plaintiff Juan Hernandez
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
At the hearing, plaintiff’s counsel
is to provide further information as to the reasons why she seeks to be
relieved.  See also other issues noted
below.
BACKGROUND
On May 3, 2024, Juan Hernandez filed
a complaint against Monica Jenkins for motor vehicle negligence based on an
incident that occurred on May 9, 2022 at the Sepulveda Blvd. exit off the 105
Freeway.
On November 19, 2024, defendant
filed an answer.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s counsel Mindy S. Bish,
Esq./Bish & Cutting APC seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in her declaration
that “[f]rom the time this firm was retained by Plaintiff, I have faithfully
and to the best of my ability represented Plaintiff in this action.  The attorney-client relationship has been
undermined by differences between my firm and the Plaintiff,
 and I am unable to fulfill my duties as an
officer of the Court as a representative of Plaintiff in this case in light of these
differences and resultant deterioration of the attorney-client relationship.  I decline to be more specific so as to not
prejudice Plaintiff’s case, but am willing to offer further details at the time
of hearing on this matter if necessary.”
            The Court finds it necessary for
plaintiff’s counsel to provide further details at the hearing. 
            Further, the Court notes, on October
25, 2024, the same date as the filing of the motion to be relieved, plaintiff’s
counsel filed a notice of change of firm name that effective September 30,
2024, Bish & Cutting APC will change its name to Bish Law, APC and that the
attorney of record for plaintiff has changed, effective immediately to Mindy S.
Bish at Bish Law, APC.  The Court is
unclear as to why plaintiff’s counsel is seeking to be relieved as “Mindy S.
Bish, Esq./Bish & Cutting APC” if Bish Law, APC is the new name, and the
name changed prior to the filing of the motion to be relieved.
Also, plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration incorrectly marked para. 6.b. rather than 6.a. as the trial in this
action has not yet been set.