 Case Number:  23TRCV00029    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CHRISTY
  ANDREWS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00029




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOMITA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 26,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant City of Lomita
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Christy Andrews
Motion
for an Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs Pursuant to CCP §1038
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for attorney’s fees and
costs is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
On January 4, 2023, plaintiff
Christy Andrews filed a complaint against City of Lomita for (1) premises
liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835 and (2) negligence of a public entity
under Gov. Code §815.2.  Plaintiff
alleges that on January 19, 2021, plaintiff was walking down the side of the
road when she was struck by a tree which fell onto plaintiff at or near Walnut
Street and 241st Street, Lomita, which caused plaintiff to sustain serious
physical injuries.
On January 18, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC against City of Lomita, City of Torrance (as Doe 1), and West Coast
Arborists (as Doe 2) for (1) premises liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835,
(2) negligence of a public entity under Gov. Code §815.2, (3) negligence, and
(4) premises liability.
On March 1, 2023, City of Torrance
filed a cross-complaint against City of Lomita.
On March 14, 2023, West Coast
Arborists filed a cross-complaint against Roes.
On February 20, 2024, plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal as to West Coast Arborists.
On July 1, 2024, City of Lomita
filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary
adjudication.
On July 8, 2024, City of Torrance
filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary
adjudication.
On October 3, 2024, a hearing was
held on the motions for summary judgment. 
The Court took the matters under submission.
On October 17, 2024, the Court
issued its ruling, adopting the tentative rulings heard on October 3.  The Court denied Torrance’s motion for
summary judgment, granted summary adjudication as to the second, third, and
fourth causes of action, and denied summary adjudication as to the first cause
of action.  The Court granted Lomita’s
motion for summary judgment.
On October 28, 2024, Torrance
dismissed its cross-complaint against Lomita.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §1032(b) states:  “Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” 
CCP §1033.5(a)(10)(B)-(C) provides
that attorney’s fees are recoverable as costs when authorized by “statute” or
“law.”
CCP §1038 provides:  “(a) In any civil proceeding under the
Government Claims Act (Division 3.6 (commencing with Section 810) of Title 1 of
the Government Code) or for express or implied indemnity or for contribution in
any civil action, the court, upon motion of the defendant or cross-defendant,
shall, at the time of the granting of any summary judgment, motion for directed
verdict, motion for judgment under Section 631.8, or any nonsuit dismissing the
moving party other than the plaintiff, petitioner, cross-complainant, or
intervenor, or at a later time set forth by rule of the Judicial Council
adopted under Section 1034, determine whether or not the plaintiff, petitioner,
cross-complainant, or intervenor brought the proceeding with reasonable cause
and in the good faith belief that there was a justifiable controversy under the
facts and law which warranted the filing of the complaint, petition,
cross-complaint, or complaint or answer in intervention.  If the court should determine that the
proceeding was not brought in good faith and with reasonable cause, an
additional issue shall be decided as to the defense costs reasonably and
necessarily incurred by the party or parties opposing the proceeding, and the
court shall render judgment in favor of that party in the amount of all
reasonable and necessary defense costs, in addition to those costs normally
awarded to the prevailing party.  An
award of defense costs under this section shall not be made except on notice
contained in a party’s papers and an opportunity to be heard.
(b) ‘Defense costs,’ as used in this
section, shall include reasonable attorney's fees, expert witness fees, the
expense of services of experts, advisers, and consultants in defense of the
proceeding, and where reasonably and necessarily incurred in defending the
proceeding.
(c) This section shall be applicable
only on motion made before the discharge of the jury or entry of judgment . . .
.
(d) This section shall only apply
if the defendant . . . has made a motion for summary judgment, judgment under
Section 631.8, directed verdict, or nonsuit and the motion is granted.”
“Section 1038 encompasses both the
initial filing of an action and its continued maintenance if done without good
faith and reasonable cause.”  Suarez
v. City of Corona (2014) 229Cal. App. 4th 325, 332 (citation
omitted). 
“We hold that section 1038 defense
costs, which include attorney fees, may not be imposed on a plaintiff’s
attorney even if counsel lacks reasonable cause and good faith in filing or
maintaining a tort action against a public entity.”  Settle v State (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th
215, 219.
DISCUSSION
Defendant
City of Lomita requests attorney’s fees in the amount of $109,984.50 (487.20
hours) pursuant to CCP §1038.
“Section
1038 ‘provides public entities (which, since 1983, have been constitutionally
proscribed from filing malicious prosecution actions) and other specified
defendants with a way to recover the costs of defending against unmeritorious
and frivolous litigation.’”  Suarez,
supra, at 332 (citation omitted).
Defendant
was the prevailing party on its motion for summary judgment and it is a public
entity.  
Defendant
argues that plaintiff maintained her lawsuit against Lomita “with full
knowledge that she had no valid claim against Lomita.”   Defendant asserts that on February 9, 2023,
defense counsel sent a letter to plaintiff’s counsel stating that “maintenance
of the case against City of Lomita lacks good faith and reasonable cause”
because “the City of Lomita did not own or control the tree in the alleged
incident” and asserting that it would pursue recovery of attorneys’ fees and costs
under CCP §1038.  In this letter, City of
Lomita represented that the tree was on the City of Torrance property and that
it “belonged to the City of Torrance.” 
Defense counsel sent another letter to plaintiff’s counsel on August 29,
2023, stating that it did not have control of the tree and that it did not have
notice.  In the August letter, defendant
no longer represents that the tree was on Torrance property.  In support of the motion, defendant reiterates
its arguments made in the motion for summary judgment, including that the tree
was included within the City of Torrance’s tree inventory and that Torrance
serviced and maintained the subject tree for at least five years prior to the
incident.  Lomita contends that it was
not until after the accident occurred that it determined that the subject tree
was within the jurisdictional boundary of Lomita.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that Lomita cannot meet its burden of showing that
plaintiff’s claims were frivolous or were otherwise brought and maintained
without good faith and reasonable cause. 
Plaintiff asserts that “Lomita’s arguments ignore or gloss over
substantive factual questions and ambiguities with respect to Lomita’s legal
relationship to the site of Plaintiff’s accident and the subject.”  Plaintiff contends that there was no evidence
indicating that Lomita had ever in any way affirmatively forfeited, ceded, or
abandoned its responsibility for the care and maintenance of the subject tree
and points out that Lomita removed the tree the day immediately after the
occurrence of the incident.  Plaintiff
also argues that Lomita’s own party witness purportedly testified that the tree
was visibly “not structurally sound,” “thereby raising the question of whether
Lomita employees knew or should have known about the tree’s dangerous
condition.”  Plaintiff asserts that she
maintained the action against Lomita in good faith and with reasonable cause.  Moreover, plaintiff argues, Lomita’s request
for fees is unreasonable and unsupported.
In reply,
defendant reiterates its arguments.
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that
plaintiff did not lack
good faith and reasonable cause in filing or maintaining the complaint against
City of Lomita.  There were ambiguities
as plaintiff stated.  The motion for
summary judgment and opposition were extensively briefed, and the Court took
the matter under submission in light of the issues, including as to ownership,
possession, and control.  While it would
have been preferred that the issues of ownership and control over the tree were
clearly understood by all the parties, even the city defendants were unclear
regarding the tree.  That confusion
inured to the benefit on no one.  But it
can not be concluded that Plaintiff’s pursuit of this case was so lacking in
merit that the Court should award attorney fees under the statute cited by the
City of Lomita.
            The
motion is thus DENIED. 
ORDER
The motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.