 Case Number:  23AHCV01909    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PCH FUEL, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CADILLAC
   PASADENA LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01909
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 24,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On August 22, 2023, plaintiff PCH Fuel,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Cadillac Pasadena LLC (“Defendant”)
arising from its purchase of a 2023 Cadillac Escalade (“Subject Vehicle”).
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant advertised the sale of the Subject Vehicle for
a certain price on the internet but when Plaintiff came to purchase it,
Plaintiff was charged $40,000 more than the advertised price without his
knowledge. 
On September 22, 2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff served
its responses on October 19, 2023.
On December 5, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses and
imposing sanctions against Plaintiff and its attorney. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on
March 7, 2024. 
Defendant filed a reply brief on March
21, 2024. 
At issue in this motion are Defendant’s
RFP Nos. 1-4, which ask Plaintiff to produce all documents that support
specific contentions made in the complaint, RFP Nos. 5-8, which ask for all
advertisements for the Subject Vehicle and documents related thereto, and RFP
No. 10, which asks for all documents relating to Plaintiff’s communications
with Defendant at any time. 
Plaintiff argues in its opposition
brief that amended responses have already been served, making this motion moot.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s amended responses, attached as Exhibit A to
the Declaration of Hovanes Margarian, remain deficient. Specifically, Defendant
takes issue with Plaintiff’s further responses to RFP Nos. 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8,
which state that it is “not in possession” of responsive documents such as “advertisement
copies” and claim that third parties, including “Dealerinspire.com”, “Amazonaws.com/Cloud
Hosting with Amazon Web Services”, “Getclicky.com” and “Autohub.io”, possess
them. The Court agrees that these responses are not Code-compliant. Plaintiff’s
further responses do not state that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry
were performed or state “whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
The responses also do not set forth the address of the organizations known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.) 
With respect to RFP No. 2, which
requests documents supporting Plaintiff’s contention that “Ramon Meza and the
Finance Manager assured [it] that [it] was getting a great hassle-free deal”,
Plaintiff responds that it has no documents in its possession because “verbal
assurances are not in writing by definition.” This response does not state
whether a diligent search and reasonable inquiry have been performed and does
not clearly state that there are no documents to be produced because they never
existed in the first place. 
Similarly, Plaintiff’s further
responses to RFP Nos. 3, 4, and 10 are also not Code-compliant because
Plaintiff does not unambiguously state whether it will comply with the demand
in whole or in part. For example, in response to RFP No. 10, which requests
“all documents relating to [Plaintiff’s] communications with [Defendant]”, Plaintiff
states that it will “produce all communications of which Plaintiff has retained
documentation.” This response is ambiguous because it only specifically agrees
to produce communications, even though the document request includes “all
documents relating to” those communications, and Plaintiff does not clearly state
whether there were documents which cannot be produced because they no longer
exist. 
In light of the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED and the Court orders Plaintiff to serve further Code-compliant
responses to RFP Nos. 1-8, and 10 within 20 days of the date of this order. The
Court also imposes sanctions on Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the reduced amount of $2,610, consisting of 6 hours at defense
counsel’s hourly rate of $425 and a $60 filing fee, to be paid within 20 days
of the date of this order. If Plaintiff then fails to produce any documents in
accordance with its amended responses, Defendant may file a motion to compel
compliance pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320 and seek
sanctions. 
Dated
this 24th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 