  Case Number:  22AHCV01061    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIO GARCIA, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JOANNA
   ESQUIVEL, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV01061
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION BY DEFENDANTS JOANNA ESQUIVEL, JUAN
  MOLINA, AND MARIA DE JESUS MEZA HERNANDEZ
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 24,
   2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
This action
was filed by plaintiffs Mario Garcia (“Mario”) and Leonardo Garcia (“Leonardo”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on November 14, 2022. On July 27, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Plaintiffs allege that on
November 14, 2020, at or around 5:50 p.m., they were each riding motorcycles on
Little Tujunga Canyon Road when they became involved in a motor vehicle
accident with defendants Joanna Esquivel (“Esquivel”) and Jennifer Soyohn Suh
(“Suh”). (FAC, ¶¶ 1, 6, 9, 14.) Plaintiffs allege that at the time of the
incident, Esquivel was operating a Nissan Altima owned by co-defendants Maria
de Jesus Meza Hernandez (“Hernandez”) and Juan Molina (“Molina”), while
Defendant Suh was operating a Lexus RX350. (Id., ¶¶ 3, 5.) Plaintiffs allege
that Mario was injured when “[Suh’s vehicle] went into the lane that [Mario]
was in and caused [Mario] to be thrown from the motorcycle he was riding,
and/or when she refused to permit [Esquivel]’s entry into the lane that [Mario]
was riding in, which caused [Mario] to be thrown from the motorcycle he was
riding.” (Id., ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs further allege that the accident occurred when
“[Esquivel] undertook to pass [Suh], and one or both vehicles went into the
lane that [Mario] was in and caused [Mario] to be thrown from the motorcycle he
was riding, which was coming from the opposite direction on Little Tujunga
Canyon Road.” (Id., ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs allege Leonardo was injured because he
was riding a motorcycle behind his brother, Mario, and saw Mario being thrown
from his motorcycle. (Id., ¶ 17.)
On January
22, 2024, notices of a settlement between Plaintiffs and Suh were filed. Suh
has not yet been dismissed from the action. 
On March 28,
2024, defendants Esquivel, Molina, and Hernandez (collectively, “Defendants”)
filed this motion for summary adjudication of Mario Garcia’s claim for
noneconomic damages. Defendants argue that pursuant to Civil Code section
3333.4, Mario cannot recover noneconomic damages because he was not insured at
the time of the accident.  
On May 13,
2024, Mario filed an opposition brief. 
Defendants
filed their reply brief on May 17, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Id., subd. (f)(2).) Therefore, courts
must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Defendants
argue that summary adjudication of Mario’s claim for noneconomic damages is appropriate
pursuant to Civil Code section 3333.4. Civil Code section 3333.4 bars the
recovery of non-economic damages to compensate for pain, suffering,
inconvenience, physical impairment, disfigurement, and other nonpecuniary
damages if the injured person was the owner of the vehicle involved in the accident
and the vehicle was not insured as required by the financial responsibility
laws of this state, or if the injured person was the operator of a vehicle
involved in the accident and the operator cannot establish their financial
responsibility as required by the financial responsibility laws of this state.
(Civ. Code. § 3333.4, subd. (a)(2)-(3).) Here, it is undisputed that on
November 14, 2020, Mario was involved in an automobile accident with Esquivel
while he was driving a 2003 Suzuki motorcycle. (UMF Nos. 1-2.) Defendants argue that Mario’s claim for
noneconomic damages is subject to summary adjudication because Mario cannot
establish that he was insured at the time of the accident for the 2003 Suzuki
motorcycle he was riding at the time of the accident. 
Notably, Defendants do not quote the
language of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c in
their brief. C.C.P. section 437c(f)(1) allows for summary adjudication as to
“one or more claims for damages” if the party contends that “there is no merit
to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” This
qualifying phrase, which limits summary adjudication to claims for punitive damages,
prevents the Court from solely ruling on Mario’s claim for noneconomic damages.
(DeCastro West Chodorow & Burns, Inc. v Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th
410, 419-420, n3.) 
Defendants cite to Chude v. Jack in
the Box Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 37, 46, in which the Second Appellate
District considered whether Civil Code section 3333.4 precluded recovery of
noneconomic damages by an uninsured driver who was injured at a drive-through
window by spilled coffee. The trial court granted summary adjudication of the
driver’s noneconomic damages claim and the parties stipulated to entry of
judgment, which the driver then appealed. The Chude court specifically stated
that “at issue in [the] appeal is whether section 3333.4 precludes [the driver]
from recovering an award of non-economic damages.” (Id., p. 39.) It did
not consider whether a claim for damages other than punitive damages could be
summarily adjudicated and, upon review of the parties’ appellate briefs, this
procedural issue was not argued. The Court additionally notes that despite
being issued in 2010, Chude has not been cited by any state appellate
court for the proposition that noneconomic damages are subject to summary
adjudication.
Defendants also cite to Harris v.
Lammers (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078. However, the Harris court
did not address a defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of noneconomic
damages. Instead, the court of appeal reviewed the trial court’s statement of
decision after trial which ruled that Civil Code section 3333.4 did not apply
to the case. In fact, prior to trial, the defendant had filed a motion seeking
summary adjudication pursuant to Civil Code section 3333.4, which the trial
court denied. The moving party then filed a petition for a writ, which the
court of appeal denied. Thus, the Harris court addressed and reversed
the judgment to the extent that it awarded the plaintiff noneconomic damages, not
whether summary adjudication of noneconomic damages is proper.
The language of Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c(f)(1) is clear:
summary adjudication for a claim of damages is allowed when “there is no merit
to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” The
damages at issue in this motion are not punitive damages. Therefore, there are
no proper grounds for summary adjudication. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 24th
day of May
2024 
 




 


 




 


Hon. William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 