Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV18686
Plaintiff's Name: Brandon Dalton, Terrell Lee
Defendant's Name: Ricardo Reta, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, County of Los Angeles
People-Names: Brandon Dalton, Terrell Lee, Ricardo Reta
Company-Names: Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, County of Los Angeles
Places: Alondra Boulevard, Wilmington Avenue, Compton, California
Dates: June 5, 2020, June 8, 2020, July 25, 2022, June 20, 2023, August 23, 2023, October 6, 2023
Events: Automobile accident, filing of Complaint, filing of Answer, motion to compel, motion for terminating, evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions
Money: $920, $1,150
Intentions: To obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and the Court's orders
Facts: Defendant's failure to respond to discovery requests, Plaintiff's failure to provide responses as ordered
Disputes: Failure to comply with discovery requests, motion for terminating, evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions
Acts: Failure to respond to discovery requests, failure to provide responses as ordered
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Discovery Act
Case Citations: Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc., Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem, R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd.
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Discovery Act
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Counsel
Significant Statements:
* "To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process..."
* "Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and they 'should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.'"
* "The primary purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and the Court's orders."
* "A discovery sanction should not create a 'windfall' for a party or place a party in a better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply complied with its obligations under the Court's orders and the Civil Discovery Act."
```

Here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has denied the motion for terminating sanctions and evidentiary sanctions, but has granted the motion for monetary sanctions. The judge found that the plaintiff's failure to comply with the discovery orders was not willful or extreme, and therefore did not warrant terminating sanctions. The judge also denied the request for evidentiary sanctions because the notice of motion did not specify the requested sanctions. The judge granted the request for monetary sanctions because the plaintiff's failure to comply with the discovery orders was not substantially justified and the imposition of sanctions would not be unjust. The judge ordered the plaintiff to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,150 within 30 days of notice of the order.