 Case Number:  22STCV02846    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Defendants
County of Los Angeles and David Morgan Wright’s Motion to Consolidate is DENIED.
 
Background
On January
24, 2022, in this case (Case No. 22STCV02846),
Plaintiff Ismael Carbajal (“Carbajal”) filed a
complaint for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants
County of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as “L.A. County Fire
Department”) and David Morgan Wright, arising out of
an accident on September 29, 2021. 
According to the Complaint, Defendants were operating an emergency
vehicle traveling east bound on Highway 126 when tires fell from the vehicle
and struck Carbajal’s vehicle, causing injuries to Carbajal.  Defendants filed their answer on June 2,
2022. (This will be referred to as the “Carbajal Action.”) 
On March
23, 2023, in Case No. 23CHCV00835, Plaintiff Earl Hibbert (“Hibbert”) filed a
complaint against Defendants County
of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as “L.A. County Fire Department”), David
Morgan Wright, and Consolidated Fire Protection
District of Los Angeles County (erroneously sued as “Consolidated Fire
Protection Dist. of LA”), asserting one cause of action for negligence, arising
out of the same incident on September 29, 2021. 
On May 30 and June 6, 2023, Defendants filed their answers. (This will
be referred to as the “Hibbert Action.”)
On July
13, 2023, the Court related the Carbajal Action and the Hibbert Action, deemed
the Carbajal Action to be the lead case, and reassigned the Hibbert Action to
Department 29 in the Spring Street Courthouse. 

On August 28, 2023, Defendants
County of Los Angeles and David Morgan Wright (hereinafter, “Defendants”) filed
the instant motion to consolidate.  No opposition was filed, but on
October 2, the Court continued to give Defendants the opportunity to address a
procedural issue, which Defendants have done.
On October 19, 2023, Carbajal filed his
opposition to the instant motion.  Defendants
have not filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are
pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all
the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated
and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd.
(a).)  The purpose of consolidation is to enhance trial court efficiency
by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and the danger of inconsistent
adjudications.  (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.) 
 
There are, in general, two types of consolidation.  First, actions may be consolidated only for
certain purposes, such as for pre-trial only or for trial only.  Second, and alternatively, actions may be
consolidated for all purposes.  (See 3
Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 12:341-341.3.)  
 
Preliminary Matter
 
In its minute order of October 2, the Court expressed
tentative views regarding consolidation. At the time, the Court had heard from
only the moving party. Now, with the benefit of more complete briefing, the
Court withdraws and does not adopt those tentative statements.
 
Discussion
Defendants move to consolidate
22STCV02846 with 23CHCV00835 for all purposes,
arguing that both involve common issues of law and fact because each action
arises out of the same multi-vehicle accident that occurred on September 29,
2021 and involve similar theories of liability. (Motion at pg. 5; Ward Decl. ¶¶
2-4.) Defendants further assert that consolidation of these actions would promote
judicial economy by avoiding the duplication of procedures and unnecessary
costs and delays. (Motion at pp. 5-6.) Consequently, Defendants reason that no
party would be prejudiced if both actions were consolidated. (Motion at pg. 6.)

In opposition, Plaintiff Carbajal
argues that consolidation is not appropriate under the circumstances. He
reasons that that the issue of Defendants’ liability is a minor question and
would only consume a small portion of the trial because the cause of the
accidents resulted from the dislodgement of Defendants’ dual set of tires.
(Opposition at pg. 7; Upton Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1 at pg. 12.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff Carbajal asserts that the issues of causation and damages diverge
significantly between the plaintiffs based on how different their injuries are
and what happened to their vehicles following the dislodgment of Defendants’
tires.  (Opposition at pp. 5-6, 7.)
Because of the dissimilarities between their injuries, Plaintiff Carbajal
reasons there is a risk of confusion and trial would not be efficiently
conducted. (Id. at pp. 6-7.) It is further advanced that the plaintiffs
may diverge in how they want to proceed with trial. (Id. at pg. 7.)
Thus, this would result in prejudicing the plaintiffs. (Ibid.) 
There are certainly common factual
and legal questions in the two actions.  Both actions begin with the same conduct, Defendant
Wright’s operation of an emergency vehicle during the course of his employment with
Defendant County of Los Angeles.  Both
plaintiffs allege that they suffered personal injuries and property damage due
to Defendant Wright’s conduct. A common trial would, at least to some degree, promote
efficiency and streamline the proceedings.
Given
the underlying facts, however, there appears to be at least a substantial
likelihood that the liability issues (including, for example, Defendant Wright’s
conduct and whether it occurred within the course and scope of his employment)
will not be focus of trial.  Rather,
trial may well focus on issues of causation and damages, which are not common
as between the two plaintiffs.  Most of
the time at trial may well be spent on the testimony of treating medical
providers and expert witnesses relating to causation and damages, and the jury must
evaluate the evidence relating to these issues separately for each plaintiff,
whether at one trial or two. 
Considering
all of the evidence and argument from the parties, the Court concludes that the
benefits of consolidation are outweighed by the risk of unnecessary cost,
delay, prejudice, and potential confusion of issues for the jury.  (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. v.
Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 430-431.) 
The
parties are encouraged to consider alternative methods for streamlining
discovery in these cases and avoiding unnecessary expense and duplication of
effort (such as double-captioning depositions and coordinating written
discovery requests and responses), but on this record, and at this time, the
motion to consolidate the two actions for all purposes in DENIED. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES the Motion to Consolidate.  
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 
 