  Case Number:  20STCV12027    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The
motion to deem admitted is DENIED.
 
The
motion to compel further responses is GRANTED.
 
The
request for sanctions is GRANTED in part.
 
Background
 
This case arises out of an alleged automobile
accident on March 29, 2018, near the intersection of Fairfax Avenue and
Rosewood Avenue in Los Angeles, California. On March 26, 2020, Plaintiff Anne Josef
Mlinek (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Agnes Frankel
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50. Defendant filed an Answer on August 30,
2021. Last month, the Court granted the motion of State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company (“State Farm”) to intervene, and on October 18, 2023, State
Farm filed an Answer in Intervention.
 
Back on December 2, 2022, Plaintiff served
Defendant with discovery requests, including Requests for Admission (Set One) (“RFAs”).
(Movsesian Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. A.) Defendant served responses to the RFAs on
January 3, 2023, consisting only of objections, with no substantive responses.
(Id., ¶ 7 & Exh. B.) Following unsuccessful attempts to resolve the
issue informally, Plaintiff filed this motion to deem admitted as true the
matters specified in the RFAS, or alternatively to compel further responses, on
April 24, 2023. (See id., ¶¶ 8-13.) Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
 
Defendant and State Farm filed an
opposition to the motion on October 19, 2023. Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
A
party must respond to requests for admission within 30 days after service.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for
admission are directed does not provide a timely response, the propounding party
may move for an order that the truth of the matters specified in the requests
be deemed admitted. (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) There is no time limit
for such a motion, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id.,
§ 2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).) In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) 
The
court “shall” make the order that the truth of the matters specified in the
request be deemed admitted unless the court “finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” 
(Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see St. Mary v. Super. Ct.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778-780.)
“It
is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose
failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion [to deem admitted the matters contained in the requests for admission].”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for
admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a
further response if that party deems that either or both of the following
apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An
objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further
responses must be given “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to
which the requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must
be accompanied by a meet-and-confer declaration and a separate statement or, in
the discretion of the Court, a “concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.” (Id., subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (d).)
“If a
party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to requests for
admission, the court may order that the matters involved in the requests be
deemed admitted. In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290,
subd. (e).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,
subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that any person “engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery process” includes (among other
things) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery;
making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to
discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery request; disobeying a
court order to provide discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a
motion to compel without substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
 
As an initial matter, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to deem admitted
the truth of the matters specified in the RFAs. This relief is available only
when the responding party fails to serve responses or when the responding party
fails to obey a court order compelling a further response to RFAs. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2033.280, subd. (b), 2033.290, subd. (e).) Neither has occurred here.
 
Turning to the request to compel further responses, the Court has
reviewed each of Plaintiff’s RFAs and each of Defendant’s objections to each
RFA. The Court GRANTs the motion to compel. The RFAs properly seek information
from Defendant about the circumstances surrounding the accident at issue, and
the objections asserted by Defendant are boilerplate and without merit.
 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. From the
filings of both parties, it appears that Defendant’s counsel has been unable to
provide substantive responses to the RFAs because of a complete failure of
Defendant to communicate with her counsel. This is a plain violation of
Defendant’s obligations under the Civil Discovery Act, it is without
substantial justification, and it would not be unjust to impose sanctions
against Defendant in these circumstances.
 
No sanctions, however, will be imposed against Defendant’s counsel. When discovery responses are due and a
client refuses to communicate with counsel, counsel is placed in an untenable
situation. Under these difficult circumstances, serving objection-only
responses is not unreasonable, and the Court finds that the imposition of
sanctions against counsel would be unjust.
 
The Court sets sanctions in the amount of $1,260 calculated, calculated
as four hours of attorney time preparing the motion, reviewing the opposition,
and attending the hearing, multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $300 per
hour, plus a $60 filing fee. (See Movsesian Decl., ¶ 19.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for an order deeming admitted the truth of the matters
specified in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (Set One).
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for an order compelling Plaintiff to serve further
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (Set One).
 
The Court
ORDERS Defendant to serve verified, code-compliant responses Plaintiff’s Requests
for Admission (Set One), without objection, within 45 days of notice of this
order.
The Court
GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
The Court
ORDERS Defendant to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to
Plaintiff in the amount of $1,260 within 45 days of notice of this order.
 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Defendant’s counsel.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 