 Case Number:  21STCV40615    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  29  
TENTATIVE 
 
Defendants’ motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
Defendants
move to continue trial from February 2, 2024, to June 7, 2024, the Final Status
Conference to May 21, 2024, and request that all discovery and motion
cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Defendants argue good cause
exists for a continuance because the parties have diligently conducted
discovery to date, Defendants’ lead trial counsel will be engaged in other
trials on the current trial date, all parties agree to the continuance and have
set private mediation on January 23, 2024, there are no prior continuances, and
the complaint will not exceed the five-year rule to bring the matter to trial
under Code of Civil Procedure  § 583.310.
(Martinez Decl. ¶4,6,7.) 
No
opposition is filed, and so it appears that no party would be prejudiced by a
trial continuance.
The Court finds there is good cause to continue the trial. The motion
is GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to continue trial.
Trial is continued to approximately June 7, 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines are
reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 