 Case Number:  24NNCV02212    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S
MOTIONS (4) TO QUASHPlaintiff moves to quash Defendant’s four deposition subpoenas to
healthcare providers to produce business records related to the care and
treatment of Plaintiff as the patient (e.g., medical and billing records).Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s Motions
to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for records from Dr. Steven J. Hsu (8475), Linda
A. Hillier, D.O. (1240), Vasudha Ahuja, M.D. (6024), and Huntington Memorial
Hospital (2126), are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.The subpoenas to Dr.
Hsu, Dr. Hillier, and Huntington Memorial Hospital are limited to records since
January 2012.The subpoenas to psychiatrist
Dr. Ahuja are limited to records since January 2019.Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions is DENIED.  Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is
DENIED.Background Plaintiff sues his former employer, Defendant Caltech,
alleging disability discrimination, retaliation, and failure to accommodate
under FMLA/CFRA and FEHA.  Plaintiff
claims that Caltech’s actions caused him emotional distress and physical
injuries.  Caltech issued subpoenas to
obtain Plaintiff’s medical records dating back to January 1, 2010, arguing that
these records are necessary to evaluate Plaintiff’s claims and potential
alternative causes for his injuries.Plaintiff moves to quash the subpoenas, arguing they are
overbroad, irrelevant, not reasonably calculated, and violate his privacy
rights.  He contends that his medical
history prior to 2019 is irrelevant to the claims, which focus on events
occurring in 2022.  Plaintiff has offered
to limit the scope of the subpoenas to records from 2019 onward and narrow the
scope of the subpoena to the relevant issues in this action—Plaintiff’s
diagnosis as paraplegic and/or any related emotional distress.  Each of Defendant’s subpoenas, Plaintiff’s
motions to quash, Defendant’s oppositions, and Plaintiff’s replies are substantively
identical.  The Court’s analysis applies
to each motion to quash.Legal Standard and
AnalysisCode of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1 states, in pertinent part:  
If a subpoena requires … the production of books, documents, or other
things … at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion … may make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely…. In addition, the court may make any
other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.
(Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).)Plaintiff’s motions to quash argue that the subpoenas are
overbroad and seek irrelevant medical records, infringing on the right to
privacy protected by both the California and U.S. Constitutions.  Plaintiff emphasizes that while the scope of
discovery is generally broad, medical information is confidential, and parties
are entitled to keep unrelated medical treatment private.  The subpoena requests all of Plaintiff’s
medical records with no time limit, even though Plaintiff’s specific claims are
about the diagnoses of paraplegia and emotional distress (i.e., mental
distress, anguish, humiliation, embarrassment, pain, discomfort, anxiety,
fright, shock, and pain.)The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonably expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
 (Hill v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.)  The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interest disclosure
services, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interest or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy.  (Id., at pp.
37-40.)  The court must then balance
those competing considerations. (Id., at p. 40.)Medical records fall within the zone of privacy protected
by the Constitution.  (Cal. Const., art.
I, § 1; Jones v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 534, 548-549,
disapproved on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531.)  Individuals have an
expectation that medical history is kept private to preclude humiliation of the
patient that might follow disclosures of his ailments.  (Bd. of Medical Quality Assurance v.
Gherardini (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 669, 678-679, disapproved on other grounds
by Williams, supra.)Plaintiff contends that the subpoenas are overly broad in
time and scope, seeking records beyond the injuries and claims at issue in this
litigation.  Plaintiff emphasizes the
constitutional right to privacy and argues that the subpoenas represent an
invasive fishing expedition.  Plaintiff
argues that Defendant must show direct relevance and a compelling need for
discovery that outweighs Plaintiff’s privacy, that the scope is narrowly
circumscribed, and by the least intrusive manner.  Further, Plaintiff highlights the subpoena
relies on speculation that there “may” be relevant information contained
therein.In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff does not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy concerning his medical records due to his
claims, which attribute his disability and all his mental, emotional, and physical
injuries to Caltech: 
By
tying his physical disability and his physical and emotional injuries to his
claims, Plaintiff put his medical and psychological history at issue beyond the
regular scope of discovery in a typical employment matter.  To adequately defend itself, Caltech will
require expert opinions as to causation and damages.  Caltech is entitled to examine Plaintiff’s
medical records back to the years leading into his medical difficulties to
assess any pre-existing comorbidities and evaluate their impact on his alleged
injuries.
 
(Opposition, p. 5.)  Defendant argues Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that the subpoenas pose a serious invasion of privacy.  Furthermore, Defendant argues, even if Plaintiff
met his burden, Caltech’s interests in the records outweigh the plaintiff’s
privacy concerns, as the right to privacy is not absolute.  Defendant emphasizes subpoenaed records are
directly relevant to the case, particularly regarding claims of emotional
distress.  Defendant also contends that a
protective order could effectively protect Plaintiff’s records from undue
disclosure, as courts have the discretion to issue such orders to safeguard
privacy rights.The reply argues against the subpoena on the grounds of
privacy, relevance, and scope, proposing a time limit to records from 2019
onwards.  Plaintiff contends that
Defendant’s request for “all” medical records is inappropriate, as it seeks
personal and private information that is not relevant to the case.  Plaintiff has proposed limiting the subpoena
to records from 2019 to the present, a proposal Defendant has rejected.  Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
assertion that he has put his entire medical history at issue due to emotional
injuries is unfounded.  The reply argues
Plaintiff does not assert any emotional distress related to suicide attempts,
nor does he indicate that his emotional distress arises from such attempts.  Lastly, the reply emphasizes that the proposed
limitation is appropriate and directly relates to the allegations of violations
of FMLA/CFRA leave laws, disability discrimination, and requests for
accommodations.Where a party
seeks to discover documents subject to the constitutional right to privacy or
protected by a statutory privilege, it is improper to “order discovery simply
upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test for
relevance has been met.”  (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 556.)  Rather, the court must balance the privacy
interest against the countervailing interest served by disclosure.  (Id., at p. 552 [citing Hill, supra,
7 Cal.4th 35, 37-40).)  Any intrusion on
the right to privacy “should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve its
objective.”  (Lantz v. Superior Court
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1855, overruled in part on other grounds by William,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 557, fn. 8.)Here, records demonstrating Plaintiff’s physical condition
and treatment are relevant to determine the existence, cause, and extent of
Plaintiff’s injuries and emotional distress, and whether some other cause may
be attributable to the alleged past and future pain and suffering.  The complaint alleges:
 
30.
As a further result of the acts and conduct of DEFENDANTS, PLAINTIFF suffered
and continues to suffer severe emotional and mental distress and anguish,
humiliation, embarrassment, pain, discomfort and anxiety.  The exact nature and extent of said injuries
is presently unknown to PLAINTIFF, who will pray leave of court to assert the
same when they are ascertained. […]
79.
As a result of the acts and omissions of DEFENDANTS, PLAINTIFF was rendered
sick, sore, disabled, both internally and externally, and/or suffered, among
other things, numerous internal injuries, severe fright, shock, pain,
discomfort and/or anxiety.
 
(Compl, ¶¶ 30, 79.)  It would be difficult—if not impossible—for
Defendant to defend against the allegations in the complaint, particularly
claims for damages, if Defendant was blocked from obtaining documents
reflecting Plaintiff’s medical history. 
Plaintiff’s concerns regarding the overbreadth of the subpoenas and the
potential for invasion of privacy are valid. 
The Court must, therefore, ensure that any disclosure is narrowly
circumscribed and proceeds in the least intrusive manner possible.The Court determines that records limited to 10 years
prior to the alleged incident (or from January 2012 to present) helps achieve
this balance.  As to the scope of the
medical, billing, and imaging records from Dr. Hsu, Dr. Hillier, and Huntington, the allegations in the
complaint suggest extensive injuries, both to Plaintiff’s emotional well-being
as well as his physical state (e.g., “sick, sore, disabled, both internally and
externally,” and “numerous internal injuries”). 
In the absence of any verified discovery responses identifying the exact
nature of the injuries claimed by Plaintiff, the Court is unable to provide a
meaningfully limitation as to body part.  As well, regarding Plaintiff’s psychiatric records
from Dr. Ahuja, the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s proposed limitation of records
from 2019 to present.Finally, Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant for
its alleged misuse of the discovery process.   Defendant, in turn, seeks sanctions against
Plaintiff for bringing this motion.  The
parties’ opposing requests for sanctions are denied.  (Mattco Valley Forge v. Arthur Young &
Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1437 [court’s discretion to deny sanctions
upon mixed results].)