 Case Number:  23STCV24878    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PROJECT
  7 SECURITY GROUP, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
MICHAEL
  JOHNSON 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV24878  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  August 1, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to dismiss is GRANTED. 
 
On 10/9/2023,
Plaintiffs Project 7 Security Group and Brandon Gatewood (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against Michael Johnson, alleging: (1) independent
action in equity to vacate judgment for lack of personal jurisdiction; and (2)
independent action in equity to vacate judgment for extrinsic fraud or mistake.
 
Now,
Defendant moves to dismiss this action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            This
case arises out of another case BC717979, in which a default judgment was
entered in Defendant here’s favor.       
 
Defendant,
who is representing himself in pro per, argues that this case should be
dismissed because Plaintiff is attempting to improperly re-litigate the
allegation of defective service which was already addressed in BC717979.
 
The Court
agrees.  
 
On 7/11/2023,
the Honorable Cherl J. Nellon in Department 13 denied Project 7’s motion to
vacate default judgment, expressly finding that service was proper. 
 
It is a
well-accepted maxim that one trial court judge may not reconsider or overrule a
ruling of another trial judge. (In re Marriage of Olivarez (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248; Ziller Electronic Lab GmbH v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.) 
 
Because a
superior court is a single entity comprised of member judges, “no member of
that court cannot sit in review on the actions of another member of that same
court.” (Id. at pp. 427–428.) Allowing such a practice would lead to
judge-shopping—venturing from judge to judge until a favorable ruling is obtained—which
“would instantly breed lack of confidence in the integrity of the courts.” (Id.)
The rule against one trial judge overruling another reflects an understood
notion of comity, conserve judicial resources, and prevents a judge from
interfering with a case ongoing before another judge. (In re Alberto
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 421, 426-431.) The superior court’s jurisdiction to
reconsider its rulings is generally to be exercised by the judge who made the
original order. (Ziller Electronic Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)  Indeed, the
second judge, being presented with the same motion, is cautioned to direct the
moving party to the original judge who ruled on the first motion. (Id.)
“For one superior court judge, no matter how well intended, even if correct as
a matter of law, to nullify a duly made, erroneous ruling of another superior
court judge places the second judge in the role of a one-judge appellate
court.” (Id. at p. 427.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues that its claim is not barred because the judgment was obtained
without personal jurisdiction over it. However, this was the precise contention
which was raised, considered, and rejected in the earlier lawsuit. Plaintiff’s
opposition makes no substantive mention of this fact. Plaintiff’s opposition
lacks any legal authority which could suggest that a party may file a separate
lawsuit to relitigate a void judgment issue which has itself already been
litigated in an earlier case. A single assertion that “[t]his lawsuit is not
barred by collateral estoppel or re judicata” without any accompanying
analysis is insufficient to show that Plaintiff’s claim here is not
barred.  Plaintiff’s arguments, which
lack substantive analysis, are particularly unavailing, given that this motion
was previously continued to provide Plaintiff an opportunity to file a fully
considered opposition. 
 
Second, while
a trial court retains authority to vacate a default judgment on equitable
grounds, Plaintiff has not provided any indication that any court but the trial
court that granted the initial default judgment retains that power. Judge
Nellon possessed this authority and did, in fact, consider the motion to vacate
judgment. Judge Nellon determined that service was proper and denied the
motion. As such, this Court finds that the proper mechanism for Plaintiff to
raise its contention that the judgment should have been vacated was a motion
for reconsideration in Judge Nellon’s Court. 

 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to dismiss is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 