  Case Number:  21STCV41161    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 12, 2024                TRIAL DATE: April
15, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Erika Z. Miguel Menedez v. City of Los
Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV41161            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants City of Los Angeles, Chief Michel Moore,
Sergeant Stephen McClean, and Officers Matthew Clark, Albert Vazquez, Robert
Resurreccion Edric Dapello, Mike Maillet, and Mike Hernandez
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Erika Z.
Miguel Menendez
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/08/21: Complaint filed.
·        
11/12/21: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a civil rights and personal injury action. Plaintiff alleges that
she was attacked by Los Angeles Police Department officers while attending celebrations
at the Staples Center following the Los Angeles Lakers’ victory in the 2020 NBA
Championship. 
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative summary adjudication of all causes of action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative summary adjudication of all causes of action. 
            
In bringing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the supporting papers must include “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that
the moving party contends are undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) “The
requirement of a separate statement from the moving party and a responding
statement from the party opposing summary judgment serves two functions: to
give the parties notice of the material facts at issue in the motion and to
permit the trial court to focus on whether those facts are truly undisputed.” (Parkview
Villas Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 1197, 1210.) On a motion which seeks summary adjudication, whether
separately or in the alternative, “the specific cause of action,
affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically
in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement of undisputed material facts. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1350(b)
[emphasis added].) Further, the moving party seeking summary adjudication must
“tie each ‘undisputed material fact’ to the particular claim, defense or issue
sought to be adjudicated.”  (Weil &
Brown et al., Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group
2024) § 10:96.5, p. 10-43 [discussing requirement os Rule 3.1350(b)].) Subsection
(h) of Rule 3.1350 sets forth the format required for a Separate Statement,
including a requirement that the theory on which summary adjudication of an
issue is sought be set forth as a header for the two-column table. (Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.1350(b).) 
 
Defendants’ motion complies with
none of these requirements. The separate statement does not identify the causes
of action by number, does not set forth the issues to be adjudicated separately
ahead of each section of the Separate Statement as raised in the notice of
motion, and does not state the theory under which summary adjudication is
sought, as reflected in the format described in the Rules of Court. Nor does
the Separate Statement make any effort to connect the allegedly undisputed
facts to the individual claims that Defendants seek to have adjudicated.  Defendants’ moving papers demonstrate the
materiality of this defect, as they rely on select material facts in support of
their attacks on various causes of action. (See, e.g., Memo of Points &
Authorities p.10:5-15; p.11:19-21.) Defendants’ motion thus invites the Court
to scour the record and the copious supporting materials in search of the
proverbial needles in the haystack supporting or challenging each cause of
action. Further still, despite Plaintiff having raised this objection in both
her original opposition, filed August 20, 2024, and her amended opposition,
filed November 27, 2024, Defendants have made no attempt even to respond to
this objection in either their original or their supplemental reply. 
 
The failure to provide a compliant separate
statement is, in the Court’s discretion, grounds for denial of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) Moreover, appellate precedent has consistently
encouraged trial courts to require strict compliance with the requirements for
separate statements. (United Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 327, 335 [superseded by statute on other grounds]; North Coast
Business Park v. Nielsen Construction Co. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 22, 30-32.)
As the Court of Appeal for the Fourth District bluntly stated in December of
2023, “[t]rial courts should not hesitate to deny summary judgment motions when
the moving party fails to draft a compliant separate statement.” (Beltran v.
Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 876.) The Court
will heed that exhortation.
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED. 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 12,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 