  Case Number:  19STCV10435    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  31 Ruling and Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
22, 2025                               TRIAL
DATE:  April 28, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         John Musero v. Creative Artists Agency, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV10435
 





















 
MOTION
TO FILE LODGED UNREDACTED SUMMARY JUDGMENT BRIEFING UNDER SEAL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Creative Artists Agency, LLC, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On November 1, 2024, Defendants, Creative Artists Agency,
LLC and Andrew Miller, filed their Motion for Summary Judgment on
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. 
The motion is redacted.
 
            On the same
day, Defendants filed their Motion to File Lodged Unredacted Summary Judgment
Briefing Under Seal.  
 
The motion is unopposed. 
  
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A
motion or application to file under seal must be accompanied by a memorandum
and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)  “The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
 
(1) There exists
an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;

(2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
 
Pursuant
to Rule 2.550(e), “[a]n order sealing the record must: (A) Specifically state
the facts that support the findings; and (B) Direct the sealing of only those
documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents
and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All
other portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.”
“Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be
open.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).)

 
“A
request to seal a document must be filed publicly and separately from the
object of the request.  It must be
supported by a factual declaration or affidavit explaining the particular needs
of the case.” (In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406,
1416.) “[A]t a minimum that the party seeking to seal documents, or maintain
them under seal, must come forward with a specific enumeration of the facts
sought to be withheld and specific reasons for withholding them.”  (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 894.)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendants move for an order to seal certain exhibits filed
in support of their Motion for Summary Judgment and lodged conditionally under
seal.  Specifically, Defendants seek to
file under seal Exhibits 30-33, 35-45, 48-49, 75, B, D-H of Defendants’
Compendium of Exhibits, and Exhibits A-G attached to the Declaration of Sascha
Penn (collectively, the Confidential Documents).  Defendants seek to seal the Confidential
Documents and all references thereto in all Defendants’ filings in support of
their motion for summary judgment.  Defendants
also seek to redact non-party email addresses.  
 
The Court previously granted Defendants’ motion to seal the
very same information in connection to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
on Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
(See Minute Order, 11/06/25.) 
Given the foregoing, the Court again finds there exists an overriding
interest in the confidentiality of the foregoing documents relating to the
internal communications and nonparties’ propriety creative process, that the
overriding interest supports sealing the record, and that a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed.
 
Competitive harm may serve as an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record.  (Universal City Studios v. Superior Court
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1285- 1286.)  Moreover, it is undisputed that the
information is subject to a protective order entered in this matter, which
supports the conclusion that the documents should be sealed. (See, e.g., Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 484 [“As a
practical matter, this has meant documents subject to a protective order often
remain outside public purview on a ‘good cause’ showing akin to that which
supported issuance of the protective order in the first place.”] [citing Phillips
v. General Motors Corp. (9th Cir. 2002) 307 F.3d 1206, 1213 [“When a court
grants a protective order for information produced during discovery, it already
has determined that ‘good cause’ exists to protect this information from being
disclosed to the public by balancing the needs for discovery against the need
for confidentiality.”]].) Additionally, the “enforcement of binding contractual
obligations not to disclose” can form the basis of an order to seal. (NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1207
fn. 46.) The Court further finds that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored
to the documents subject to the protective order and to the documents which
contain nonparty email addresses, and that no less restrictive means exists to
achieve the overriding interest.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motion is GRANTED.  IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT the Confidential
Documents, as used in and referred to in the summary judgment proceedings, be
sealed.  The court expressly finds that
with respect to the Confidential Documents:
 
(1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;  
(2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record;  
(3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed;  
(4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and  
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
            With respect to Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment, the parties shall file the Motion for Summary Judgment,
the opposition, and any reply briefs as well as all supporting documents
publicly with the exception of the Confidential Documents and any references
thereto which shall be redacted.  The court does not need courtesy
copies of the publicly filed documents.
 
            The
Parties shall also electronically file a sealed, unredacted
version of the foregoing motion, opposition, and reply along with all
supporting papers.  The parties shall
provide the court with a courtesy copy of the sealed, unredacted filings, which
copies shall be labeled prominently, “Sealed By Order Of The Court On January 22,
2025.”  The courtesy copy shall be
delivered to the court in three ring binders, with side exhibit tabs. 
 
            The
Parties have requested to redact non-party email addresses from the foregoing
summary judgment filings.  These
addresses are unnecessary for consideration of the motion and can be
redacted.  No sealing order is necessary.  The non-party email addresses may be
redacted.
 
            Absent further Order of the Court, no
one is authorized to view the sealed Confidential Documents filed with the
Court as part of the summary judgment proceedings, except for the following
persons: the Court and its personnel, the Parties and their counsel of record,
as well as any experts retained by counsel and subject to the protective order.
 (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(e)(3).)
 
 
            The refiling of any document does not affect the timeliness of any prior
filing.  
 
            Moving
party to give notice.  
                                                                                                            
DATED: January 21, 2025
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 