 Case Number:  24STCV20256    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
22, 2025                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         James Young Kim v. Luke W. Yoon, M.D.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV20256
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Luke W. Yoon, M.D.
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiff
James Young Kim
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
In 2018, plaintiff James Young Kim (Plaintiff) sought
medical services from defendants Luke W. Yoon, M.D. (Dr. Yoon) and Urology
Center (collectively, Defendants) regarding the health of Plaintiff’s prostate.  Thereafter, defendants diagnosed Plaintiff
with prostate cancer and provided him with medical treatment.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
misdiagnosed him with prostate cancer, knew that he was free of prostate cancer,
yet continued to treat him for prostate cancer. 
This action followed.
 
On August 12, 2024, Plaintiff commenced this action against Defendants
for (1) professional negligence (medical malpractice), (2) fraud and
misrepresentation, (3) lack of informed consent, and (4) battery.  
 
On November 18, 2024, Dr. Yoon filed this demurrer to the
second, third, and fourth causes of action in Plaintiff’s Verified Complaint,
and concurrently filed a motion to strike punitive damages from the same.
 
            On January 9,
2025, Plaintiff filed a consolidated opposition to the demurrer and motion to
strike.  
 
            On January
15, 2025, Dr. Yoon filed replies.
 
II.        DISCUSSION 
 
A.   
Legal Standard for
Demurrer
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.¿ (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can
only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿¿ 
 
B.    
Application
 
Dr. Yoon demurs to the
second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
The court addresses them in turn.
 
1.      Fraud and Misrepresentation
 
Plaintiff’s fraud claim
is based on the following allegations:  “During
all or most of the times since 2018, while treating plaintiff for prostate
cancer, defendants and each of them knew or should have known that plaintiff
was free of the prostate cancer in his body. However, defendants and each of
them hid or minimized or downplayed the acts that indicated the status of being
free of prostate cancer from plaintiff. Instead, defendants and each of them
kept prescribing different treatment drugs and kept him in the regiment of treatment
for prostate cancer until 2024, telling plaintiff that the treatment was
necessary.”  (Complaint, ¶ 12.) “While
being treated by defendants and each of them since 2018, plaintiff did not know
that the true facts of his condition and relied on the advice of defendants and
each of them. Plaintiff kept taking the prescribed drugs and underwent the
regiment of treatment for many years. Had he known the true facts about his
condition, he would not have agreed to such lengthy and difficult regiment of
treatment for all those years. Plaintiff s reliance was reasonable as he relied
on the advice of a licensed medical doctor.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 13.)
 
Dr. Yoon argues the
fraud claims fails because there are no allegations plead specifically as to
him.  The court disagrees but nonetheless
finds the fraud claim is deficient.
 
“Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with
general and conclusory allegations.”  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 (cleaned up).)  The specificity requirement
means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate
defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the
representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was
made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)¿¿ 
¿ ¿ 
Here, Plaintiff does not allege with sufficient specificity what was
stated to Plaintiff, when the representations were made, nor how the statements
were made (in person, by phone, email, etc.). 
The fraud claim fails. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fraud claim is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
2.      Lack of Informed Consent
Plaintiff’s informed consent claim is based on the following
allegations: “Throughout the period of treatments, defendants and each of them failed
to properly inform plaintiff of the treatment options and all available risks,
benefits and possible outcomes of each treatment. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) “Not having
been properly informed of all treatment options and their possible outcomes,
plaintiff failed to obtain reasonable information to give informed consent to
defendants for the treatments that were rendered.” (Complaint, ¶ 18.)
Dr. Yoon argues the third cause of action for lack of informed
consent fails because it is indistinguishable from Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for professional negligence (medical malpractice) and is therefore not a
separate claim.  
 
To establish a claim for failure to obtain informed consent, the
plaintiff alleges that the defendant (1) performed a medical procedure, (2)
that defendant did not disclose to plaintiff he important potential results and
risks of [and alternatives to] the medical procedure, (3) that a reasonable
person in plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to the medical procedure
if that person had been adequately informed; and (4) that plaintiff was harmed
as a result or risk that defendant should have explained.  (CACI No. 533.)
 
The court agrees the informed consent claim fails, but on different
grounds.  Plaintiff does not allege the
medical procedure that Defendants performed. 
Instead, Plaintiff vaguely alleges Defendants’ a failure to properly
inform Plaintiff of all “treatment options and all available risks, benefits
and possible outcomes of each treatment.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 17.)  A defendant
would be left to guess at the basis of Plaintiff’s allegations.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the informed consent claim is
SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
3.     
Battery
 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for medical battery is
based on the following allegation: “Throughout the treatments, defendants and
each of them caused intentional, nonconsensual,
and harmful or offensive contact on the body of plaintiff
including, but not limited to, touching during the medical procedure and
examination and prescribing or administering certain drugs
into the body of plaintiff.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 25.)
 
            Dr. Yoon
argues the medical battery claim fails because a medical battery cannot be
based on a lack of informed consent. 
 
To establish a claim for medical battery, a plaintiff must
allege that (1) the defendant performed a medical procedure without consent or
that plaintiff consented to one medical procedure, but performed a
substantially different medical procedure, (2) that plaintiff was harmed, and
(3) that conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (CACI
No. 530A.) 
 
The battery claim is deficient.  Plaintiff does not identify the medical
procedure which he did not consent to, or alternatively, that a substantially
different medical procedure was performed. 

 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the battery claim is
SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
C.    
Motion to Strike
 
Dr. Yoon seeks to strike punitive damages from Plaintiff’s
Verified Complaint.  The punitive damages
claim is plead in connection to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for fraud
and misrepresentation.  Because the court
has sustained the demurrer to that cause of action, the court finds the motion
to strike is MOOT.
 
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes
of action is Sustained. Leave to amend is Granted.  The motion to strike is Moot.
 
Plaintiff is directed to serve and file the First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 22,
2025                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 