 Case Number:  22STCV26107    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 6/17/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV26107 JAMES PHILLIP
THOMAS, et al. vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
Moving Party: DEFENDANTS GARDEN VIEW AND
WILSON SUMMIT HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION; SUBDIVISION MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS; GWEN
TIBBS
Responding Party: Plaintiff and City of Los Angeles
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
 
HOA DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS
DENIED. 
GARDEN VIEW’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff James Phillip Thomas alleges that on June
24, 2023, he tripped and fell due to a mis-leveled portion of the sidewalk at
4299 Via Marisol in the Monterey Hills area of Los Angeles. Defendants Wilson
Summit Homeowners Association, Subdivision Management Consultants and Gwen
Tibbs (collectively, the “HOA Defendants”) own and maintain the property
abutting the sidewalk in question. Defendant Garden View, Inc. is the
landscaping company contracted by the HOA Defendants to provide landscaping
services. Plaintiff sued both the HOA Defendants and Garden View for negligence
and premises liability. Both the HOA Defendants and Garden View now separately
move the court for summary judgment against Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
HOA Defendants’ objections to evidence submitted by the
City of Los Angeles: Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7 are overruled.
 
HOA Defendants’ objections to evidence submitted by
Plaintiff: Nos. 3, 9, 10, 12, and 15 are overruled.
 
Plaintiff’s objection to evidence submitted by Defendant
Garden View: Nos. 6, 13, 14, 16, 17, and 19 are overruled.
 
The parties did not make any other objections to evidence
that was material to Court’s ruling on the Motion for Summary Judgment. (CCP § 437c(q).)
 
LEGAL STANDARD¿ 
¿ 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court
decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in
the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id.
at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
 
SIDEWALK ACCIDENT
DECISIONS DOCTRINE
 
Defendants rely on the “Sidewalk
Accident Decisions” doctrine (the “sidewalk doctrine”), which governs
property adjacent to a
sidewalk. The sidewalk doctrine is based on case law explaining that sidewalks
are public and thus adjacent landowners owe no duty to users of the
sidewalk unless that property owner created the hazardous condition.
Streets and Highways Code §5610 provides that owners of lots fronting on a
public street shall maintain any sidewalk in a condition that
will not endanger persons and not interfere with the public convenience in the
use of those works.  Pursuant
to Jones v. Deeter (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 798, 803, the duty
imposed by this ordinance is owed to the city and not to persons using the sidewalk.
“Under section 5610 the abutting owner bears the duty to repair defects in the
sidewalk, regardless of whether he has created these defects. It was felt,
however, that it would be unfair for such an owner to be held liable to
travelers injured as a result of sidewalk defects which were not
of the owner’s making. Thus, the ‘Sidewalk Accident Decisions’ doctrine
arose; this doctrine holds that the abutting property owner is not liable in
tort to travelers injured on the sidewalk unless the owner somehow creates the
injurious sidewalk condition.” (Deeter, 152 Cal.App.3d at 803.)
 
While generally a landowner is not liable for harm
resulting from conditions or activities outside his property, on adjoining land
or on the highway, street, or sidewalk, the landowner may be liable if the
landowner created the defect or exercised dominion or control over the
adjoining land (Jordan v. City of Sacramento (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
1487, 1490-1491; Corcoran v. San Mateo (1953) 122 Cal.App.2d
355, 359; Schaefer v. Lenahan (1944) 63 Cal.App.2d 324, 326.)¿In settings where the abutting owners
exercised control over the property such as by planting trees or habitually
trimming or caring for them, these abutting owners have the duty to maintain the trees in a safe
condition to make sure the roots do not cause a tripping hazard. (Alcaraz v.
Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1162.)
 
Furthermore, “a defendant need not own, possess and control
property in order to be held liable; control alone is sufficient.” (Id.) A person is required
to maintain “land in their possession and control in a reasonably
safe condition.” (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6
Cal.4th 666, 674.)¿ In Alcaraz, the court held that because the
defendant maintained the lawn surrounding the meter box, a reasonable
trier of fact could infer that the defendant exercised control over that strip
of land and had a duty to warn others of the hazardous condition of the meter
box.¿(Alcaraz v. Vece, 14 Cal.4th at 1162.)
 
MOVING PARTIES’ INITIAL BURDEN 
Both moving
parties have met their initial burden of showing that they did not own or
breach any duty of care to Plaintiff. The HOA Defendants demonstrated that the
sidewalk where the incident occurred is owned and maintained by the city, and
that the tree alleged to have caused the displacement of the sidewalk is also
controlled by the city (HOA UMF 7, 10). Additionally, a permit is required to
trim the tree or perform other maintenance tasks on it (HOA UMF 11). Similarly,
Garden View presented evidence that the tree in question is maintained and
controlled by the city (Garden View UMF 5-6). Garden View did not perform any
services on the tree in question (Garden View UMF 18); its services in the
general area near the tree consist only of leaf blowing and shrub trimming
(Garden View UMF 17). There is a sprinkler near the tree, but it is oriented to
direct water away from the tree. Both parties demonstrated that they neither
owned nor controlled the sidewalk in question, nor did they maintain the tree
adjacent to the sidewalk whose roots caused the displacement.
TRIABLE ISSUE OF FACT
        HOA
Defendants
Plaintiff
introduced a declaration from his expert Kay Greeley, who opined that water
from a sprinkler, shooting up the hill behind the tree, migrated downward,
thereby overwatering the tree and leading to the overgrowth of roots which
caused the displacement of the sidewalk. (Plf’s Ex. B, Greeley Decl. ¶¶ 9-11.) The
court agrees with the HOA Defendants that Plaintiff's expert's declaration
regarding this cause is speculative. However, the HOA's reply seemed to
overlook Plaintiff's strongest evidence that "the drainage pipe next to
the tree well wall, terminating into the river rock, caused concentrated
drainage of water immediately adjacent to the subject tree and sidewalk,
leading to increased root growth and more voids underneath the sidewalk. The
offset sidewalk at the incident location is direct evidence of voids
(underneath the sidewalk and above the soil) caused by tree roots uplifting the
sidewalk slab." (Greeley Decl. ¶ 14). It is Plaintiff's expert's opinion
that the drainage pipe caused concentrated drainage immediately next to the
tree well wall and sidewalk, exacerbating tree root growth, which led to the
sidewalk uplift (Greeley Decl. ¶15). Unlike the speculative claims about water
migrating back down the slope, Plaintiff's expert's statement regarding the
drainage pipe appears plausible and not merely speculative to the court.  Given that the Court is required to draw all
inferences in favor of the non-moving party, it appears this evidence is
sufficient to rebut Plaintiff’s prima facie case. 
Guy Stiver, City
of Los Angeles’ expert, also reached a similar conclusion relating to the
drainage from the pool. Stiver “observed water drainage from pool equipment had
flowed over the concrete floor edge and onto HOA slope. At the east end of the
pool equipment room water drainage had eroded the slope causing a sizable 4
feet wide by 2 feet deep gulley. At this location, I observed a clear one half
inch drain pipe with a continuous flow of water I estimated at .2 gallon per
minute. At the west end of the equipment room concrete floor I observed another
one half inch diameter clear pipe with only drips of water.” (Guy Stiver Decl.
¶ 12.) If the clear pipe, with an estimated .2 gallons per minute flow, is
allowed to flow continuously for 24 hours, an estimated 288 gallons of water would
be deposited into the gulley. (Id. ¶13.) Stiver opined that “[t]he extra
drainage water most likely applied over years, increased root growth
contributing to the lifting of the concrete panel that lead to the alleged trip
and fall incident. This assertion is backed up by the evidence that the
combined widths (4 inches total) of the wall cracks at the subject location
almost equals the combined widths of wall cracks (4.5 inches total) at the
other five planter tree well locations” (Id. ¶15.)  Photographs taken by the experts show that the
pool equipment room is directly above the tree with water coming out of the
pool drainage pipe leading to the tree either through the black drainage pipe
or through a gulley formed by the flow of water. 
Therefore,
Plaintiff and Defendant City of LA have raised a triable issue of fact relating
to whether the HOA Defendants caused the uplift of the sidewalk under the sidewalk
doctrine through the drainage from its pool equipment.
Garden View
As a preliminary issue, the City of
Los Angeles did not file an opposition against Garden View’s motion for summary
judgment. Garden View's situation differs from that of the HOA Defendants
because it is not the owner of the adjacent property but rather a third party
contracted by the property owner to perform landscaping work. Defendant Garden
View argues that it owed no duty of care to Plaintiff. However, "[t]he
duty question must be decided on a case-by-case basis, but each case must be
governed by the general rule that everyone is required to use ordinary care to
prevent causing injury to others." (Bloomberg v. Interinsurance
Exchange (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 571, 575.) "A defendant who enters upon
an affirmative course of conduct affecting the interests of another is regarded
as assuming a duty to act, and will be liable for negligent acts or
omissions." (Id.) As in Bloomberg, the allegations against
Defendant center around the negligent performance of a contractual duty.
Similarly here, one source of Defendant’s duty stems from the negligent
performance of its contractual duty under its agreement with the HOA. The other
source of duty stems from the sidewalk doctrine where Garden View can be held
liable if it created the displacement in question, or retained control over the
sidewalk or the tree at issue. As demonstrated above, Garden View
has shown that it does not control the sidewalk or the tree in question, and by
extension, did not create the displacement, as Garden View did not maintain,
trim, or water the tree. The onus is now on Plaintiff to raise a triable issue
of fact.
Ownership And Control of The Sidewalk
The only evidence
introduced by Plaintiff regarding Garden View’s ownership and control of the
sidewalk in question is the testimony of the City of Los Angeles’ Person Most
Qualified (PMQ), James Hawkins, who stated in his deposition, "I don’t
know" when asked if "the City controlled the sidewalk." (Exhibit
C to Plaintiffs’ Evidence – City of Los Angeles Deposition (PMQ James Hawkins),
pgs. 37:18 – 22. [Compendium pg. 29.]) Under CCP § 437c(p)(2), the opposing
party is required to set forth specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists. Statements such as "I don’t know" do not
constitute specific facts. Thus, Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of
fact relating to Garden View’s control over the sidewalk in question.
Ownership And Control of
The Tree 
With regard to Garden
View’s control of the specific tree at issue, Plaintiff introduced a document
showing that the city has an easement 4 feet into the HOA’s property, which
includes the tree in question. Plaintiff’s expert interpreting the easement declares
that the property, including the tree, is owned by the HOA but under the
control of the city (Plf’s Ex. C). This arrangement is corroborated by the fact
that the HOA does not inspect or maintain the tree. (Tibbs Depo. 75:20-25,
76:23-25.)
In situations where ownership and control are distinct,
case law has established that control is the key determinant of liability. The
court in Low v. City of Sacramento (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 826,832 clarified
that under common law, the responsibility for maintaining the safe condition of
land lies with the possessor, defined as the entity that both occupies and
controls the property. The court states that “in identifying the party
vulnerable to a verdict, control dominates over title.” (Id.) “The
crucial element is control.” (Schwartz v. Helms Bakery Ltd. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 232, 239) The Low court determined that even if an easement
holder has control over an area, the underlying fee holder who actively manages
the property, such as by maintaining landscaping, retains the power to prevent
or remedy hazards and is therefore liable. (Low, 7 Cal.App.3d at 834.)
In the current case, whether the HOA or Garden View owned the land that
includes the tree is not the dispositive factor. The key determinant for
assessing liability is who actually maintained and controlled the property.
Application
The evidence presented by Plaintiff
does not substantiate his claim that Garden View controlled the tree in
question. Plaintiff attempted to utilize a statement from Gwen Tibbs, CEO of
Subdivision Management, asserting that Garden View maintains the common areas,
which allegedly included the tree at issue. (Exhibit A to Plaintiffs’ Evidence – Declaration of Gwen
Tibbs, ¶¶ 3, 9.) However, in the same
declaration, Tibbs clarified that neither she nor Garden View maintains the
tree, and it is actually maintained by the city (Tibbs Decl. ¶¶ 6-8).
Plaintiff also
references the easement of the property, as detailed in the Declaration of John
S. Henderson. (Exhibit C to Plaintiff’s Evidence, ¶¶ 2, 3, 4 and its Exhibits 1
and 2). Plaintiff’s own expert testified that the tree is controlled by the
city and owned by the HOA. Low has made clear that control and not
ownership is the determining factor in assessing liability.
Plaintiff
introduced expert testimony from Kay Greeley regarding the placement of a
drainage pipe near the tree's roots as evidence of Garden View’s control of the
tree. (Exhibit B to Plaintiffs’ Evidence – Declaration of Kay Greeley, P.E.,
R.L.A., ¶¶ 15, 17, 19, 21.) However, evidence presented by Plaintiff himself shows
that the pipe was neither installed nor maintained by Garden View but had
existed prior to Garden View’s contract with the HOA. (Plf’s Ex. D, Deposition
of Garden View, Inc. (PMK Blake Meahl) 208:6-25.)
Plaintiff
introduced testimony of Garden View’s PMK, who testified that for trees higher
than 10 feet, they would get a tree service. (Exhibit D to Plaintiff’s Evidence
– Garden View, Inc. Deposition (PMK Blake Meahl – Part 1), 136:13 – 137:6.
[Compendium pgs. 51 – 52.]) However, this does not apply to the specific tree
in question. Plaintiff needs to show that Garden View’s scope of service
includes the tree at issue, which he has not.
Lastly, Plaintiff points to Garden
View placing river rocks outside of the brick barrier enclosing the tree.
However, the court does not find this action to constitute control over the
tree in question. First, the rocks were placed outside the barrier surrounding
the tree and no rocks were placed inside the barrier.  Second, a one-time placement of the rocks in
response to the directive of the HOA to which it had no input (Plf’s Ex. D,
Depo of Blake Meahl 59:1-21.) does not constitute systematic control sufficient
to establish liability under the sidewalk decision doctrine.
Plaintiff failed to show that
maintenance of the tree at issue was required under the control or that, in
practice, Defendant Garden View actually performed regular maintenance of the
tree. Thus, Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact relating to
Garden View’s control over the tree.
Garden View’s Negligent Performance and Creation of the
Displacement
Plaintiff’s contention that Garden
View caused the alleged displacement and Garden View’s negligent performance
are based on the same two theories. The first theory involves the black
drainage pipe connecting the property to the area immediately next to the
barrier of the tree. As analyzed above, the drainage from the pool through the
drainage pipes might have contributed to the overgrowth of the roots leading to
the displacement at issue. However, evidence showed that Garden View was not
involved in the installation of the drainage pipes. Garden View’s PMK testified
that the black drainage pipe was not installed by Garden View and is likely to
have existed since the development of the property. (Plf’s Ex. D, Meahl Depo
208:6-25.) Furthermore, under Garden View’s contract with the HOA, Garden View
does not perform any services for drainage pipes. (Garden View’s Ex. A.) This
is to be expected given that the drain pipes relate to drainage from the pool
equipment located directly above the tree and is unrelated to landscaping. Plaintiff
failed to raise a triable issue of fact both under the contract and in actual
practice that Defendant Garden View is involved in any way with the drainage
pipe in question.
Plaintiff’s second theory is that due
to the slope behind the tree, water from sprinklers shooting up the slope
migrates downwards, causing overwatering of the tree and leading to the
displacement. Plaintiff’s expert points to the difference in vegetation on the
slope between 2014 and 2015, indicating bare areas as evidence of overwatering
and drainage issues. (Greeley Decl. ¶ 9.) However, the expert admits that
overwatering and drainage issues are just one of many potential causes for the
bare areas. (Id.) The expert, based on a lack of discovery responses, also
speculates that river rock was added in 2019 to stabilize the bottom of the
slope. (Id.) The expert further concludes that due to the slope, raised
irrigation heads shooting water onto the slope migrated downward to the tree,
encouraging more rapid growth of the tree. (Id. ¶ 10.) The expert did
not state that he measured or observed how much water migrates backward, how
much is captured by the existing vegetation, how much is dispersed to other areas,
how much water runs off onto the streets, and how much of the water is blocked
off by the brick barrier surrounding the trees. Without establishing these
factual foundations, the conclusion that water migration caused overwatering,
which led to the displacement, is speculative and insufficient to raise a
triable issue of fact. A
party cannot avoid summary judgment based on mere speculation and conjecture…but instead must produce admissible evidence raising a triable
issue of fact. (Crouse v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1509, 1524.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)  
CONCLUSION
HOA Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment is denied. Garden View’s motion for summary judgment is
granted.