 Case Number:  22STCV27661    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 6/17/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV27661 BRIAN WALKER, et
al. vs DAVID M ODEGARD , et al.
Moving Party: Defendant David Odegard 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTIONS FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFFS BRYAN WALKER AND
STEVE MALANG AS TO DEFENDANT DAVID ODEGARD ARE GRANTED
 
On November 14 and 17, 2023, this Court ordered
Plaintiffs Walker and Malang to respond to Defendants’ first sets of Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production by
December 14, 2023.
The Court’s order also sanctioned Plaintiff Walker and
his counsel in the amount of $1,000, payable to Defendant by December 4 and 7,
2023.
On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion for
Terminating Sanctions based on Plaintiff’s failure to respond to discovery and
pay the sanctions ordered by the Court. The motion was set to be heard on March
12, 2024. Plaintiff failed to file an opposition, but counsel appeared at the
hearing and advised the Court that he failed to oppose the motion due to his
health conditions.
Counsel also advised the Court that he had already
provided responses to discovery and that he would be substituting or
associating in counsel due to his health conditions and that terminating
sanctions were not warranted. Based on this, the Court denied the motion,
ordered counsel to pay the sanctions, and to file a motion for substitution of
attorney or notice of association of counsel within 20 days of March 18, 2024.
Defendant alleges Plaintiffs’ counsel has not been
truthful to the Court as discovery responses allegedly served on Defendant have
not been received. Furthermore, upon examining the record, the Court sees that
no motion for substitution of attorney or notice of association of counsel has
been filed. Plaintiffs’ attorney did not file an opposition to this motion for
terminating sanctions, and Plaintiffs did not attend the FSC set for June 3,
2024.
It is undisputed that Plaintiffs did not file the
motion for substitution. Defendant asserts that he has not received the
discovery responses that were allegedly served, and Plaintiffs did not contest
this assertion. Further, there was already a prior motion for termination where
the Court gave Plaintiffs the benefit of the doubt and an opportunity to comply
with the Court’s orders. Additionally, Plaintiffs did not oppose the present
motion and did not attend the FSC, appearing to have abandoned the case. It
appears to the Court that a lesser sanction would not curb Plaintiffs’ abuse.
Thus, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is granted.[1]  Because the Court deems that sanction
sufficient, it denies the requests for monetary sanctions.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 


