 Case Number:  21STCV36962    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
  
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS
COUNSEL  
Hearing Date: 6/17/2024 at 1:30
p.m.  
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV36962
JENNIFER CHEN vs JASON RAICH
Moving Party: Plaintiff’s Counsel
David Berke  
Responding Party: Unopposed  
Notice: Sufficient  
 
Ruling: The
Court Will Hear from the Parties
 
Background 
 
Attorney David Berke represents
Plaintiff. Berke moves to be relieved as counsel, citing an irremediable
breakdown in the attorney-client communication and material breach of retainer
agreement. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
The Court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.) 
¿ 
A motion to be relieved as counsel
must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052
(Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on
all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd. (d).) 
¿ 
Analysis and Conclusion¿ 
¿ 
Berke has filed Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). Berke seeks to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on the
grounds that there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship or
communication. The Court finds this to be proper grounds for withdrawal. (See
Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014 (a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship or communication is grounds for allowing the
attorney to withdraw).) Breach of a material term of an agreement with the lawyer is
also grounds for withdraw. (California Rules of Professional Conduct,
Rule 1.16(b) (5).)
  
The Court notes that the next
hearing is an FSC set for 9/30/24, which should be sufficient time for Plaintiff to
retain new counsel. Alternatively, if Plaintiff or new counsel needs additional
time to prepare for trial, sufficient time exists for Plaintiff to take action
to seek a continuance of the trial. However, the court notes that the motion and
its related documents were served on Plaintiff through electronic service.
Although this is permissible under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362(d)(2),
the motion lacks a declaration stating whether the electronic service address
used is current, meaning that the address was confirmed within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was
sent to the client's last known address and was not returned or no electronic
delivery failure message was received is not, by itself, sufficient to
demonstrate that the address is current. The Court will hear from counsel
whether Plaintiff’s email address used for service is “current.”
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 