  Case Number:  21STCV00797    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 6/17/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV00797 ARLET TALAMANTES
vs DAVID ALEXANDER MELENDEZ
Moving Party: Defendants David and Mauricio
Melendez
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
On
June 12, 2024, the Court heard oral arguments relating to the timeliness of the
present motion to compel further responses. 
The Court continued the motion to June 17, 2024, to further consider the
timeliness arguments, as well as the substantive arguments raised by the
motion.  It now finds that under the
plain language of the statute, the present motion was timely filed.  
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to the following 2 requests:
REQUEST
FOR PRODUCTION NO. 28: Please produce the raw Electronic Data Recorder
information downloaded from the 2019 Fiat 500, bearing CA license plate number
8NDN707 on January 9, 2024.
REQUEST
FOR PRODUCTION NO. 29: Please produce any and all photos taken of the 2019 Fiat
500, bearing CA license plate number 8NDN707 on January 9, 2024.
Defendant
makes the following objections to Plaintiff’s requests:
Responding
Party objects to this Request on the following grounds: (1) It is vague and
ambiguous. (2) It is premature. (3) It seeks to violate the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work product doctrine. (4) It calls for premature expert
discovery. The time for expert discovery has not yet arrived. Experts are
scheduled to be designated in this case on May 23, 2024.
Defendant's
main argument is that, similar to witness statements obtained by opposing
counsel, EDR data and photographs, although they are not mental impressions or
case strategies (which enjoy absolute protection), are nonetheless protected by
the qualified work product privilege. Defendant  relies on the reasoning in Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 496-97:
First,
when an attorney obtains through discovery a
witness statement obtained by opposing counsel through his or her own
initiative, such discovery undermines the Legislature's policy to ‘[p]revent
attorneys from taking undue advantage of their adversary's industry and
efforts.’” (§ 2018.020, subd. (b).) Even when an attorney exercises no
selectivity in determining which witnesses to interview, and even when the
attorney simply records each witness's answer to a single question (“What
happened?”), the attorney has expended time and effort in identifying and
locating each witness, securing the witness's willingness to talk, listening to
what the witness said, and preserving the witness's statement for possible
future use. An attorney who seeks to discover what a witness knows is not
without recourse. The attorney is free to interview the witness for himself or
herself to find out what information the witness has that is relevant to the
litigation. …Absent a showing that a witness is no longer available or
accessible, or some other showing of unfair prejudice or injustice (§ 2018.030,
subd. (b)), the Legislature's declared policy is to prevent an attorney from
free-riding on the industry and efforts of opposing counsel (§ 2018.020, subd.
(b)). (
Second, a default rule authorizing discovery of witness
statements procured by an attorney would impede the Legislature's intent ‘to
encourage [attorneys] to prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not
only the favorable but the unfavorable aspects of those cases.’ (§ 2018.020,
subd. (a).) If attorneys must worry about discovery whenever they take a
statement from a witness, it is reasonably foreseeable that fewer witness
statements will be recorded and that adverse information will not be
memorialized. As Justice Kane observed below, without work product protection, ‘no
meaningful privacy exists within which an attorney may have sufficient
confidence to thoroughly investigate and record potentially unfavorable matters.’
This result would derogate not only from an attorney's duty and prerogative to
investigate matters thoroughly, but also from the truth-seeking values that the
rules of discovery are intended to promote. Accordingly, we hold that a witness
statement obtained through an attorney-directed interview is, as a matter
of law, entitled to at least qualified work product protection.
When there is qualified work product, the burden is on the party seeking discovery to establish adequate
reasons to justify production, such as unavailability or inaccessibility of the
witnesses. 
Here, the EDR data and photographs, similar to
witness statements, are factual in nature. Defendant expended significant
efforts to acquire the EDR data and photographs: arranging for access to the
vehicle, hiring an expert to download the EDR data, hiring a professional to
take the photos, determining which parts of the car to photograph, and ensuring
that these materials were preserved for potential future use.  Thus, these items are entitled to qualified
work product protection.
 
Plaintiff is not without recourse. The vehicle
in question is Plaintiff’s car, and Plaintiff has unrestricted access to it.
Plaintiff has the ability to download the EDR data and take photographs of the
car. Plaintiff can directly obtain the same factual information without relying
on Defendant’s efforts. Plaintiff has not demonstrated any unavailability or
inaccessibility of the car, the EDR data, or the ability to take photographs,
which are essential to justify production under the qualified work product
doctrine.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s reply did not address Coito v.
Superior Court or the qualified work product privilege as asserted by
Defendant. Plaintiff argues that the EDR data and photographs are not mental
impressions or case strategies; however, these arguments pertain to absolute
work product privilege, which is not the basis of Defendant's argument.
 
Given the accessibility of the vehicle to Plaintiff, the lack
of adequate reasons to justify the production, and the protection afforded by
the qualified work product privilege, Defendant has raised meritorious
objections and Plaintiff's motion to compel is DENIED. Sanctions are likewise
DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 