 Case Number:  21STCV28557    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION; MOTION TO EXTEND
TIME OF DEPOSITION; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 6/17/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV28557 MARIA ELENA
ESPINOZA vs LUIS CORNEJO, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Luis Cornejo and On
Track Transportation
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS DENIED;
MOTION TO EXTEND TIME OF DEPOSITION IS GRANTED; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
 
Defendants have taken Plaintiff’s
deposition three times, but each session was cut short by Plaintiff and had to
be rescheduled. When Defendants scheduled a fourth deposition, Plaintiff
refused to attend. Defendants now move the Court to compel Plaintiff to attend
her fourth deposition and to permit an additional five hours of deposition beyond
the seven-hour time limit.
 
Legal Standard 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
  
Where a motion to compel a party’s appearance
and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  On motion of a party who, in person or
by attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice
in the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and against the
deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.290
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.290 requires courts to allow
additional time, beyond the seven-hour limit, to depose a witness, unless the
court, in its discretion, determines that the deposition should be limited for
some reason. (Certainteed Corporation v. Sup. Ct. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th
1053, 1062.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.290 not only authorizes a judge to allow additional
time to depose a witness in these circumstances, but requires the judge to do
so, unless the judge determines that the deposition should be limited for
another reason, such as the deponent's medical condition or to protect any
party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, undue burden, or expense. (CCP § 2025.290(c); Certainteed, supra, 222 CA4th at 1062.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff's
sole argument in opposition to Defendants’ motion to compel is that Defendants
did not fulfill the meet and confer requirement prior to filing the motion. 
 
The Court
disagrees. On April 11, 2024, Defendants requested to continue the deposition
since it was terminated prematurely by Plaintiff. Plaintiff did not attempt to
meet and confer, instead stating that if Defendants wanted to depose Plaintiff
for the fourth time, they could file a regularly noticed motion, which
Plaintiff would oppose. The email exchanges show that Defendants attempted to
reach an informal resolution, but Plaintiff urged Defendants to file a motion.
The Court finds that Defendants have met their meet and confer obligations
prior to filing the motion. Furthermore, communications between the parties
after the motion was filed showed that the parties seem to be at an impasse on
whether Defendants are entitled to five additional hours of deposition or just
two, as proposed by Plaintiff, beyond the statutory 7-hour limit.
 
Although on
April 11, 2024, Defendants made an informal request for Plaintiff’s deposition,
Defendants did not serve Plaintiff with a deposition notice for Plaintiff’s
fourth deposition. A motion to compel deposition can only be made after service
of a deposition notice. The Court cannot grant the present motion to compel
deposition when no deposition notice was served on Plaintiff.
Time
calculated for the 7-hour rule is time on the record. As for the length of the
deposition, Plaintiff did not present any reason why the deposition should not be
allowed to exceed the seven-hour limit. The opposition only contests the
present motion on the basis of the meet and confer requirement. Given that
Plaintiff is claiming in excess of $1 million in damages alleging traumatic
brain injuries and the presence of a Spanish interpreter is slowing down the
deposition, Defendants’ request for an additional five hours is reasonable and
therefore granted.
The parties
are to meet and confer on Plaintiff’s deposition dates given the new time
limit. The motion is granted in part and denied in part. 
 
 The Court denies sanctions as requested by
both parties, finding that both parties acted with substantial justification.
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 
 