  Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  73 01/17/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving
party:  Plaintiff Kent Tran and
Cross-Defendants Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng, and Wai Hung Szeto
Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainant/opposing
party: Defendant and Cross- Complainant Utomo Tani aka Jimmy Tani
 
PLAINTIFF AND CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR AN ORDER
STAYING RECEIVERSHIP/DISSOLUTION PROCEEDINGS AND APPOINTING APPRAISERS  (filed 12/17/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court denies Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendants’ Motion for an Order Staying Receivership/Dissolution
Proceedings and Appointing Appraisers based on lack of jurisdiction.  
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)     
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)     
Conversion/embezzlement
3)     
Declaratory relief
4)     
Partition by sale
5)     
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)     
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)     
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)     
Conspiracy
9)     
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The SAC alleges the
following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
 
On September 19, 2024, Cross-Complainants
filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) alleging the following causes
of action:
1)     
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)     
Indemnity
3)     
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The SACC
alleges that that any
liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due to
the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On December 17, 2024, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants
filed the instant motion, arguing:
·      
The
Court’s denial of Kent Tran’s motion to intervene prevented the majority
shareholders from exercising their statutory rights. Had Tran been permitted to
intervene, he would have joined the majority shareholders—Kam Choi Lin, Chang
Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng, and Wai Hung Szeto—who collectively hold more than 58%
ownership in GPG. Together, they could have exercised their right to preserve
the corporation by initiating a buyout of Tani’s shares, thereby halting the
dissolution process.
·      
Cal.
Corp. Code § 2000 explicitly provides that majority shareholders may avoid
dissolution and the appointment of a receiver by electing to purchase the
shares of the initiating party.
·      
Since
the receiver’s appointment, GPG has been burdened with escalating and
unnecessary costs.
·      
CAL.
CORP. CODE § 2000 requirements all met. 
·      
The
statute does not require the posting of the bond as a precondition to the stay
being granted. Instead, the stay is mandatory upon application by the
purchasing parties, regardless of whether the bond has been set or posted.
·      
The
majority shareholders (Kent Tran and LCSZ, holding 77.8% collectively) and Tani
have been unable to reach an agreement on the fair value of Tani’s shares.
·      
Moving
Party also requests the appointment of three disinterested appraisers and for
the Court to set a bond of $15,000.00. 
 
Defendant and Cross- complainant Utomo Tani Aka
Jimmy Tani filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
This Court lacks jurisdiction to overturn or
otherwise stay the lawful Court Orders of Department 19 appointing a
receivership.
·      
No notice was given by the Plaintiff to the
court-appointed Receiver.
·      
Plaintiff TRAN has failed to establish sufficient
grounds for the granting of any of the requested relief and, further, the
motion as brought by TRAN is deficient in form and substance as detailed above.
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants filed a reply,
arguing:
·       The Defendant’s
arguments mischaracterize the nature of the relief sought and lack both factual
and legal merit.
·       Plaintiff's
motion does not challenge or interfere with any ruling by Department 19 but
lawfully invokes a separate, independent statutory right.
·       Plaintiff
Kent Tran is not, and cannot be, a movant in Department 19.
·       Defendant’s
allegations of “judge shopping” and procedural abuse are entirely baseless.
 
II. JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants request that the Court take judicial
notice, pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452(d) and 453, of the following
documents, which are attached hereto as exhibits: 
 
1. Exhibit A: A true and correct copy of the trial court’s order
in Crane v. R.R. Crane Investment Corporation (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 748.
This order set a bond at $25,000, establishing precedent for bond-setting in
corporate dissolution cases under California Corporations Code § 2000. 
 
2. Exhibit D: The appellate ruling in Crane v. R.R. Crane
Investment Corporation (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 748. This ruling affirms the
trial court’s requirement for bond-setting and the appointment of appraisers
under California Corporations Code § 2000. 
 
3. Exhibit E: The appellate ruling in Veyna v. Orange County
Nursery, Inc. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 146. This ruling serves as legal
authority for the requirement that the court set a bond to ensure that the
moving party’s reasonable expenses, including attorneys’ fees, are covered upon
electing to purchase shares under California Corporations Code § 2000(b).
 
4. Exhibit F: The appellate ruling in Ontiveros v. Constable
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 686. This ruling supports the procedural requirements
under California Corporations Code § 2000 for staying dissolution proceedings. 
5. Exhibit G: The Minute Order Denying Kent Tran’s Motion for
Leave to Intervene in Case No. 22STCV30356, dated July 15, 2024. This order
highlights the procedural challenges that prevented Mr. Tran from participating
in the dissolution proceedings.
 
 6. Exhibit H: The
Receiver’s October 2024 Report and Notice of Fees and Expenses in the Tani
v. Lin case, dated November 27, 2024. This report details the escalating
administrative costs incurred by GPG under the receiver’s management,
underscoring the urgency for resolution under California Corporations Code §
2000.
 
The Court takes judicial notice of the documents, but not of their
contents.  
 
III.
DISCUSSION  
Plaintiff
Kent Tran (“Kent”) and Cross-Defendants Kam Choi Lin (“Lin”), Chang Ho Chen
(“Chen”), Wei Lin Zheng (“Zheng”), and Wai Hung Szeto (“Szeto”) (collectively,
“Moving Party”) request  the following:
(1) an order staying the dissolution proceedings pursuant to Corporations Code
Section 2000; (2) requesting the Court to set a bond of $15,000 to cover
reasonable
expenses, including attorneys’ fees, in accordance with California Corporations
Code Section 2000(b); and (3) requesting the appointment of three neutral
appraisers to determine the fair market value of GPG shares as of April 12,
2023, the date Plaintiff Tran filed for involuntary dissolution.
Notice
As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that the necessary party, the Superior
Court Receiver, Kevin Singer was not adequately served pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure 1005(b). Moving Party failed to cite to any authority showing
that Kevin Singer was not entitled to service under California Corporations
Code section 2000, but the other parties were entitled to notice. Nevertheless,
Mr. Singer was informed by Utomo Tani’s counsel and filed an opposition to the Ex
Parte motion. As such, the Court will consider the motion. 
Lack of Jurisdiction
Plaintiff
Kent Tran and Cross-Defendants Kam Choi Lin (“Lin”), Chang Ho Chen (“Chen”),
Wei Lin Zheng (“Zheng”), and Wai Hung Szeto (“Szeto”) failed to provide legal
authority showing that this Court may enjoin or stay the actions of the Court
Receiver appointed by another Court. The opposition argues that the Court –
Department 73 – lacks jurisdiction. 
In Department
19’s case 22STCV30356, the Hon. Stephanie M. Bowick appointed Kevin Singer as
the Superior Court Receiver on May 8, 2024. On July 15, 2024, Hon. Stephanie M.
Bowick denied Plaintiff Kent Tran’s Motion to Intervene because “the Court [found]
that Tran fails to show that he is so situated that the disposition of this
action may impair or impede his ability to protect his interest(s), or that he
is not adequately represented by the existing parties. By way of
the instant Motion and Complaint In Intervention, Tran is in reality seeking an
opportunity to challenge the Court’s April 12, 2024 Order granting Plaintiff’s
request for the appointment of the Receiver. Yet the record reflects that on
April 30, 2024, Defendants already filed a notice of appeal of that decision.
In addition, Defendants have filed a Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s
April 12, 2024 Order, currently scheduled for hearing on July 29, 2024. Hence,
Trans challenge to the appointment of the Receiver is currently being fully litigated.
Further, Tran’s counsel are the same counsel as that for the named Defendants.”
(Minute Order 04/12/24 at p.5.)
Now, Moving
Party which includes Kent Tran, seeks relief based on California Corporations
Code Section 2000. 
Certain
statutes have been recognized as establishing special
proceedings. California Corporations Code section 2000 (“section 2000”)
establishes a special proceeding which enables a 50% shareholder to avoid
dissolution of the corporation by purchasing the stock of the shareholders
seeking to dissolve the corporation. (Abrams v. Abrams-Rubaloff &
Associates, Inc.¿(1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 240, 247.)  This special
proceeding is governed by the provisions of section 2000 and not the CCP,
unless the latter is expressly made applicable.  In concluding that a
section 2000 lawsuit is a special proceeding, the Abrams court stated
that it is a summary proceeding in which the trial court refers the matter to
appraisers who prescribe the time and manner of producing evidence and, if the
party seeking the appraisal of stock is dissatisfied, he may then choose to
proceed with dissolution.  (Id. at 248.)
Nevertheless, once a proceeding has been assigned for hearing and
determination to one department of the superior court by the presiding judge,
"it is beyond the jurisdictional authority of another department of the
same court to interfere with the exercise of the power of the department to
which the proceeding has been so assigned .... If such were not the law,
conflicting adjudications of the same subject matter by different departments
of the one court would bring about an anomalous situation and doubtless lead to
much confusion." (Ford v. Superior Court (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 737,
742.)  One department of the superior court “cannot enjoin, restrain,
or otherwise interfere with the judicial act of another department of the
superior court. Even between superior courts of different counties, having
coequal jurisdiction over a matter, the first court of equal dignity to assume
and exercise jurisdiction over a matter acquires exclusive jurisdiction.” (Ford
at 742.)  
The Court is
unpersuaded by Moving Party’s argument that Ford v. Superior Court is
limited to normal proceedings and not special proceedings. Especially because Counsel
for Movant and Plaintiff Kent Tran has filed two prior motions in Department 19
seeking the same relief requested in the instant motion under California
Corporations Code §2000. On April 9, 2024, Cross-Defendants LIN, CHEN, ZHENG
and SZETO filed their first Motion for an Order to Follow Procedures of
California Corporations Code §2000. (Gould Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. F.) On July 15, 2024,
the Court in Department 19 denied Cross-Defendant's earlier Motion Under
California Corporations Code Section 2000. (Gould Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. G; Minute
Order 01/15/24.) Any decision in Department 73 would affect Department 19’s Hearing
on Motion for Order TO FOLLOW PROCEDURES OF CA CORP CODE § 2000 scheduled for
January 28, 2025. 
In sum, the
Court finds, as argued by Moving Party, that this Court does not have
jurisdiction. Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendants’ Motion for an Order Staying Receivership/Dissolution
Proceedings and Appointing Appraisers.  
IV. CONCLUSION
The Court
denies Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants’ Motion for an Order Staying Receivership/Dissolution
Proceedings and Appointing Appraisers based on lack of jurisdiction.  