 Case Number:  24STCV16961    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  73 1/17/25
Dept. 73
The Honorable Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
HARVEY
DANIELS v. HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA (24STCV16961)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/opposing party: David N.
Barry
Counsel for Defendant/moving party: Soheyl Tahsildoost and Ali Ameripour
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION (Filed 8/19/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff Harvey Daniels
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(“Defendant”) alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of lmplied Warranty of
Merchantability under The Song-Beverly Act and (2) Breach of Express Warranty
under The Song-Beverly Act. 
 
On August 19, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to
Compel Arbitration, arguing:
·               
When the subject vehicle of
the instant dispute was purchased, it was accompanied by an express written
warranty, provided by Hyundai Motor America, located in Plaintiff’s Owner’s
Handbook & Warranty Information. The Owner’s Handbook included a binding
arbitration provision requiring Plaintiff to resolve any disputes concerning
the purchase or performance of the Vehicle by binding arbitration.
·               
On or about December 23,
2022, Plaintiff enrolled their Vehicle in Hyundai’s Bluelink services. In order
to enroll in Hyundai’s Bluelink services, customers must agree to the
then-effective Bluelink Connected Services Agreement, the terms and conditions
of which also include a binding arbitration provision.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that:
·               
Defendant’s motion is based
on a on printout of a "generic" express warranty document which
Defendant presumes was electronically signed by this plaintiff at the time of
vehicle sale, but which Defendant fails to show actually exists. Plaintiff
never assented to the purported arbitration clause in the express warranty because
no vehicle consumer will get a copy of that warranty unless and until the
consumer actually purchases the vehicle at which point the Owner's Manual, the
warranty and other product literature accompanying the vehicle, are physically
delivered to that purchaser. Thus, this plaintiff never agreed to arbitrate its
claims against Hyundai at the time of sale.
·               
Defendant’s
alternative ground rests upon an arbitration clause from a "Bluelink"
Agreement which Defendant has failed to attach to its motion. Defendant has not
provided an actual signed contract of any kind much less one with an
arbitration agreement that this plaintiff in fact, signed. 
·               
Defendant
failed to comply with the Rees-Levering Act as it relates to the Bluelink
contract by failing to give Plaintiff a physical copy of the Bluelink contract
(along with the retail installment sales contract) to review or to sign.
In
reply, Defendant states that Plaintiff is estopped from arguing that the
Parties entered into a warranty contract and that Defendant has obligations
under the Warranty, while simultaneously arguing that there is no mutual assent
to be bound by the arbitration clause in the Warranty. Further, Courts have held that, with respect to the
Bluelink CSA, a party not denying that they received access to Bluelink
services that would only have been accessible if they electronically executed
the CSA is grounds for enforcement of the agreement to arbitrate. Finally,
neither the Warranty nor CSA falls under the scope of the Rees-Levering Act.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Request for Judicial Notice
 
A motion for summary judgment “shall be
supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (California Code
of Civil Procedure, section 437c(b)(1).) Request for judicial notice must be
made in a separate document. (California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(c)(5).)
Judges cannot take judicial notice of hearsay statements asserted in court
filings, but can take judicial notice of the existence of such documents. (Johnson
& Johnson v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 768; Williams
v. Wraxall (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 120, 130, fn. 7 (judges may take judicial
notice of the existence of court documents, “but cannot take judicial notice of
the truth of hearsay statements in decisions or court files, including
pleadings, affidavits, testimony, or statements of fact.”).) Courts can take
judicial notice of the fact that complaints were filed, but not of the truth of
the statements contained in those. (Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 483.)
 
Defendant asks the Court to take judicial
notice of Plaintiff's complaint filed in this action. The Court notes that
judicial notice of its own records in this case is unnecessary and redundant.
Nonetheless, Defendant’s request is granted. 

 
B.      Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are
OVERRULED. 
 
C.      Legal Standard for Motions to Compel
Arbitration
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With respect to the moving party’s
burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is
generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the
court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)    
 
The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2(a)-(c).)  


D.     Applicability of Federal Arbitration Act 
 
“The party
seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
676, 684.) California law provides that parties may expressly designate that
any arbitration proceeding should move forward under the FAA's procedural
provisions rather than under state procedural law. (Cronus Investments, Inc.
v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 394). Otherwise, the FAA
provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any “‘contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce.’ (9 USC § 2.)” (Allied-Bruce Terminix
Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 277.) Accordingly,
“[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the burden to show it applies by
presenting evidence establishing the contract with the arbitration provision
has a substantial relationship to interstate commerce[.]” (Carbajal v.
CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234, [italics added].) 
Moreover, as noted above, California contract law applies to the validity of
the arbitration agreement.  (Winter, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p.
947.)   
 
Here,
Defendant offers a copy of the Hyundai Warranty Agreement containing an
Arbitration Provision which expressly states that the agreement is governed by
the FAA. (Rao Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, [“This Agreement evidences a transaction
in interstate commerce, and thus the Federal Arbitration Act governs the
interpretation and enforcement of this arbitration provision.”].)  Defendant
also offers a copy of the Connected Services Agreement containing an
Arbitration Provision which expressly states that the agreement is governed by
the FAA.  (Ameripour Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 3, [“This agreement evidences a
transaction involving interstate commerce and shall be governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16.”].)   

 
Therefore,
Defendant meets its burden to establish that the FAA governs the purported
Agreements.  
 
E.      Threshold Procedural Requirements
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 provides that a motion or petition to compel arbitration
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 “must state, in
addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement
and the paragraph that provides for arbitration.” (Cal. Rules. Ct., 3.1330.)
“The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Id.)
 
Further, Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 requires a party seeking to compel arbitration “to plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration under the parties’ arbitration agreement and a
refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.” (Mansouri v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-41 [“…if proof of a demand and
refusal to arbitrate under the agreement is a necessary prerequisite to a
petition to compel arbitration under section 1281.2, the failure to prove such
demand and refusal is a failure to state a cause of action—a fundamental error
that permits us to review the issue despite a party’s failure to raise the
theory in the trial court.”].) However, Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2
“does not include a requirement that the petitioning party have made a demand
for arbitration, only that the other party has refused to arbitrate” and
arbitration can be made without a formal demand ever having been made. (Hyundai
Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.) The
filing of a lawsuit rather than commencing arbitration proceedings as
required by the agreement affirmatively establishes the refusal to arbitrate
the controversy requirement. (Id.)
 
Here, the Court finds that Defendant complies
with of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1330. Defendant states, verbatim, the
provisions of the asserted agreements and the paragraph that provides for
arbitration. (Motion, pp. 15-16.) Defendant Hyundai establishes a prior demand
for arbitration (Ameripour Decl., ¶ 2), and the filing of Plaintiff’s Complaint
establishes that Plaintiff refused to arbitrate the controversy.
 
F.       Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement
 
In deciding a petition to compel arbitration,
trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement
exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue of
whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961; see also Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“[g]eneral principles of contract law govern whether
parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate”].)
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972; see 9 U.S.C. § 2 […an agreement in writing to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract,
transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.”].) General principles of contract law determine if the parties have
entered into a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Craig v. Brown & Root,
Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420 (citing Chan v. Drexel Burnham
Lambert, Inc. (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 632, 640-641).)
 
Defendant argues
that the instant action is subject to two different arbitration provisions,
including a provision in the subject vehicle’s Owner’s Handbook and Warranty
Information (“Owner’s Handbook”) and a provision in the Connected Services
Agreement Terms and Conditions (“Bluelink Agreement”) for Hyundai’s Bluelink
services.
 
 
 
a.     
Subject Vehicle’s Owner’s Handbook
 
The Court
finds that Defendant provides insufficient evidence that the arbitration
provision in the Subject Vehicle’s owner’s handbook is an enforceable contract.
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff is bound to arbitrate his dispute with Defendant
because the Subject Vehicle’s owner’s handbook states that the Subject
Vehicle’s warranty is subject to the terms of a binding arbitration
provision: 
 
“If you purchased or leased your Hyundai
vehicle in the State of California, you and we, Hyundai Motor America, each
agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any of
our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase,
advertising for the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance of the
vehicle, any service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or the duties contemplated under the warranty,
including without limitation claims related to false or misleading advertising,
unfair competition, breach of contract or warranty, the failure to conform a
vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims
for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle's purchase price (excluding
personal injury claims), but excluding claims brought under the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act, shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our
election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of law.” 
 
(Ameripour
Decl., Exh. 3 p. 12.)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff should be estopped from asserting that the absence of his signature
on a written contract precludes the enforcement of a contract's arbitration
clause, citing Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 262, 269.  However, this principle only applies where there is
an enforceable contract, which is defective merely because one of the parties
failed to sign. 
 
Here, Defendant
presents insufficient evidence that the Subject Vehicle’s warranty constitutes
an enforceable contract under basic principles of contract formation. Defendant
fails to show that the arbitration provision contained in the owner’s handbook
constituted an offer to which Plaintiff assented, thus the statements included
in the handbook do not amount to an enforceable contract. (See Leslie v.
Brown Bros. Inc. (1929) 208 Cal. 606, 621 [offer cannot be turned into
agreement merely because the person to whom it is made makes no reply, even
where offer states that silence will be taken as consent]; see Norcia v.
Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 845 F.3d 1279, 1291
[offeree, regardless of apparent manifestation of her consent, is not bound by
inconspicuous contractual provisions of which she was unaware, contained in a
document whose contractual nature is not obvious]; Golden Eagle Ins. Co. v.
Foremost Ins. Co. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1385 [silence or inaction do
not constitute acceptance].)  
 
Ultimately,
the warranty agreement included in the Subject Vehicle’s handbook does not
constitute an enforceable contract under principles of estoppel or foundational
theories of contract formation. Because Defendant is without evidence that the
statements regarding arbitration in the Subject Vehicle’s owner’s handbook
amount to a contract, those statements are not grounds on which the Court will
order Plaintiff to arbitrate his dispute with Defendant. (See Omar, supra,
Cal.App.4th at p. 961.) 
 
b.     
Connected Services Agreement Terms and
Conditions (“Bluelink Agreement”)
 
When Plaintiff
enrolled in Hyundai’s Bluelink services, Defendant argues that Plaintiff agreed
to the Bluelink Agreement which included an arbitration provision. (Rao Decl.,
¶¶ 4-6.) The provision provided in relevant part as follows: 
 
Hyundai
and you agree to arbitrate any and all disputes and claims between us arising
out of or relating to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services
Systems, Service Plans, the Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services,
or programs you purchase, enroll in or seek product/service support for,
whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile
application, except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not
subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. This
agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all
disputes and claims between us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent
permitted by law. […] The agreement to arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not
limited to: claims based in contract, tort, warranty, statute, fraud,
misrepresentation or any other legal theory; claims that arose before this or
any prior Agreement (including, but not limited to, claims relating to
advertising) […] 
 
(Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(C)(a).)  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
has failed to offer any evidence establishing that Plaintiff actually signed up
for and assented to any Bluelink service or the corresponding arbitration
provision it seeks to enforce. (Opposition, 8:12-20.) The Court agrees.
Defendant fails to present sufficient evidence to establish that Plaintiff in
fact signed or agreed to the Bluelink Agreement. In support of the instant
motion, Defendant provides the declaration of Vijay Rao, the Director of Connected Ops & Owner
Apps/Web, for Hyundai. (Rao Decl., ¶ 1.) Rao administers business activities
and processes relating to the Hyundai Bluelink services for Hyundai vehicles. (Ibid.)
However, Rao does not declare to have been present during the sale of the
subject vehicle nor during Plaintiff’s ostensible sign-up for Bluelink. Rao
instead declares the general processes for signing up for Bluelink, as follows:
“When new Bluelink services enrollees like Plaintiff activates Bluelink
services through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process, they agree to the
then-effective CSA. An example screen capture that reflects the content and
general layout that Plaintiffs would have seen when they activated Bluelink
services through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process on December 23, 2022 is
attached as Exhibit 1.” (Rao Decl., ¶ 1.) What new Bluelink services enrollees generally
do when signing up for Bluelink does not establish whether Plaintiff himself
signed up. Plaintiff’s name is nowhere on the Bluelink Agreement, and Defendant
offers no evidence to establish that Plaintiff was enrolled in Bluelink. Thus,
this evidence is insufficient to establish Plaintiff as a signatory to the
Bluelink Agreement. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant has failed to meet its initial burden to establish an arbitration
agreement binding Plaintiff. 
 
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED. 