 Case Number:  21STCV26707    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ICON IDENTITY SOLUTIONS, INC. 
                           
         vs.
 
SANTA CERRITOS, INC., et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV26707 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 18, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
            On
7/20/2021, Plaintiff Icon Identity Solutions, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit
against Santa Cerritos and Cerritos Promenade, LLC (collectively, Defendant),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) common count—quantum meruit; (3) common
count—account stated; (4) common count—open book account; and (5) foreclosure
of mechanic’s lien. 
 
            Now,
Defendant Santa Cerritos, Inc. (Defendant) moves for summary judgment, or in
the alternative, summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Factual Background 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that it is owed for construction work it performed as a general
contractor pursuant to a written contract with Defendant.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
CCP section 437c,
subdivision (q) provides:
In granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the
motion shall be preserved for appellate review.
 
            In
light of CCP section 437c, subdivision (q), the Court declines to rule on the
submitted objections. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff is not
properly licensed by the California Contractors State License Board to perform
construction work, and thus, as a matter of law, cannot bring an action to
recover compensation for the performance of unlicensed construction work.
 
            The
Contractors State License Law (CSLL), Business & Professions Code (B&P)
§ 7000 et seq., governs the construction contractors industry in California.
The CSLL requires all contractors to be properly licensed with the Contractor’s
State License Board (CSLB) at all times that they perform work. (B&P §
7031(a).) Failure to be properly licensed exposes the contractor to a penalty
of disgorgement of all compensation paid and preclusion from actions at law to
collect payment or the benefits of the contract. (B&P §§ 7026, 7031(a),
(b), & 7040 et seq.; White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App. 4th
506, 517.) This is true even whether the general contractor is licensed, but
the subcontractors are unlicensed. (See Kim v. TWA Constr., Inc. (2022) 78
Cal. App. 5th 808, 831 (“For all of these reasons, we decide that section 7031
bars even a licensed general contractor in California from bringing an action
for compensation for an act or contract performed by an unlicensed
subcontractor where a license is required.”).) 
 
            Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
On or about September 10, 2020, Santa
Cerritos allegedly entered into a written purchase agreement with Icon, an
Illinois based general contractor, to provide “the construction and services …including
all labor, materials, equipment and services … to properly execute and
complete” the design, construction, and complete build out of a Panini Kabob
Grill at the Project Location.” (SS ¶ 5.) 
 
-        
In approximately April 2021 or May 6,
2021, the contract was terminated by Santa Cerritos. Santa Cerritos terminated
the agreement due to Icon’s unilateral 43% increase by $526,789 from the
originally agreed upon price for its services from $1,197,706.20 to $1,724,495,
among other reasons. (SS ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
-        
Between September 10, 2020 and the
termination of the agreement in April or May 2021, Icon hired several
subcontractors to perform construction work on PKG Cerritos, who were
collectively paid $76,302.23 in total. (SS ¶ 37.) 
 
-        
Icon hired subcontractor CMC Mechanical
LLC (CMC) to perform pre-construction “HVAC work,” which consisted of “HVAC
equipment, duct work, materials.” (SS ¶ 38.) 
 
-        
Icon paid CMC $44,600 for its HVAC work
for the PKG Cerritos property, which Icon seeks to recover from Santa Cerritos.
(SS ¶ 39.) 
 
-        
CMC was not properly licensed with the
CSLB during the entire time of the PKG Cerritos project, including between
January 1, 2020 to August 10, 2022. (SS ¶ 40.) 
 
-        
In or around late September or fall of
2019, Icon merged with, was acquired by, or otherwise became Stratus Unlimited,
LLC. (SS ¶ 49.) 
 
-        
Stratus Unlimited, LLC was not licensed
with the CSLB until February 3, 2022. (SS ¶ 42.)
 
-        
Icon’s alleged Responsible Managing
Employee (“RME”) is Mr. James Rymarcsuk (SS ¶ 8.) 
 
-        
From October 26, 2020 until January 4,
2021, Mr. Rymarcsuk was paid by a company called, Enhanced Site Solutions, LLC
(“Enhanced”), an Illinois based limited liability shell company that was never
licensed with the CSLB and was merely used to “track costs related to the type
of work” Icon was allegedly doing with PKG Cerritos. (SS ¶ 9.) 
 
-        
There is no record of fictitious
business name filings of Enhanced Site Solutions, LLC doing business as Icon
Identity Solutions, Inc, and no record of FBN filings of Icon fictitiously
doing business as Enhanced Site Solutions, LLC in California as required by
B&P § 17910. (SS ¶ 10.) 
 
-        
Between September 10, 2020 and the
termination of the agreement in April or May 2021, Icon hired subcontractor
True Glass and Glazing, Inc. (“True Glass”) to perform “shop drawings” for the
“Store front, glass and glazing” of PKG Cerritos. True Glass was unlicensed
while they were working on PKG Cerritos, specifically between January 19-
February 11, 2021. (SS ¶¶ 41-44.) 
 
As such,
Defendant has submitted evidence that: (1) There is no record of fictitious
business name filings of Enhanced Site Solutions, LLC doing business as Icon
Identity Solutions, Inc, and no record of FBN filings of Icon fictitiously
doing business as Enhanced Site Solutions, LLC in California as required by
B&P § 17910; (2) From January 4, 2021 through September 20, 2021, Mr.
Rymarcsuk, the alleged Responsible Managing Employee (RME) of Icon was paid a
salary by Stratus. There is no record of fictitious business name filings of
Stratus doing business as Icon, and no record of FBN filings of Icon Identity
Solutions, Inc. fictitiously doing business as Stratus Unlimited, LLC in
California in compliance with B&P § 17910; (3) Mr. Rymarcsuk had nothing to
do with this project in terms of construction (See SS ¶¶ 14-36); (4) The
subcontractors hired by Icon were unlicensed during their work on PKG Cerritos;
(5) Icon was required to become licensed with the CLB when it merged with
Straus in late September or fall of 2019, yet it did not become licensed until
February 3, 2022 (Frank v. Kozlovsky (2d Dist. 1970) 13 Cal. App. 3d
120, 125 [A change in structure or name requires a new contractor’s license.].)

 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference Plaintiff itself was not properly
licensed with the CSLB at all times that they allegedly performed work on PKG
Cerritos, nor were the subcontractors hired by Icon.  Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff
to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
            
            In
opposition, Plaintiff submitted evidence to argue that: (1) Icon was properly
licensed; (2) True Glass was properly licensed at the time it performed work on
behalf of the project; (3) CMC did no work and supplied no material to the
project; and (4) Icon was rebranded as Straus and as one and the same identity
Icon could not have paid Straus. 
            
            In
support of the first contention, Plaintiff submitted evidence to show that Mr.
Rymarcsuk was a bona fide employee of Icon. In particular, it submitted
evidence that: (1) his application for employment was made to Icon (Rymarcsuk
Decl. ¶ 3); (2) the application for employment clearly states that Mr.
Rymarcsuk was applying for a full-time position is Chief Construction Estimator
(Rymarcsuk Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.); (3) an offer of employment was made by Icon to Mr.
Rymarcsuk, which he accepted. On June 10, 2019, Mr. Rymarcsuk was offered the
position of Senior/Chief Estimator for Icon, working under the direction and
control of Roy Schumacher, Senior Vice President of construction for Icon.
(Rymarcsuk Decl. ¶¶ 4-5); and (4) The offer of employment references an annual
salary, as well as participation in the Icon health and benefit package.
Furthermore, the offer of employment also contained a “Non-Solicitation,
NonCompetition and Confidential Agreement,” which states in pertinent part:
“This Non-Solicitation and Confidential Agreement (“This Agreement”) is made
and entered into as of June 11, 2019, by and between Icon Identity Solutions,
Inc. (“Icon”), and together with its subsidiaries and affiliates (“The
Company”) and James Rymarcsuk (“Employee”) …” (Rymarcsuk Decl., Exh. B.)
 
            Plaintiff
also submitted evidence to show that Mr. Rymarcusk was not a sham “RME” but was
actively engaged in the project. In response to Defendant’s evidence that Mr.
Rymarcusk did not visit the project cite, generate or review reports or notes
about the Project, or communicate with anyone who had been present at the cite,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that the project never started. As such, there was
no construction work performed, no meeting calendars to be kept, notes or
reports to review, or communications about the construction site to be had. (See
e.g. Exhibit 18 to Motion, McHugh Depo. Pg. 24:7-23, McHugh Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff argued that even assuming there was an actual construction project to
supervise, Mr. Rymarcusk's conduct would have been sufficient to qualify as a
RME. In support, Plaintiff cited cases like Jeff Tracy, Inc. v City of Pico
Rivera (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 510, which involved issues as to whether or
not a business had a proper contractor’s license with an RME qualifier. There,
the Court wrote: 
 
…The
qualifier must exercise direct supervision over the work for which the license
is issued to the extent necessary to secure full compliance with the provisions
of the law (Section 7068.1)”(Wright v. Issak, 149 Cal.App.4th 1116,
1123, 58 Cal.Rptr.3d 1 (2007); see Section 7068.1, subd.(a) [qualifier “shall
be responsible for exercising that direct supervision and control of his or her
employer’s or principal’s construction operations to secure compliance with
this chapter and the rules and regulation of the board”])
 
…
 
 A variety of activities can constitute direct
supervision and control, including” ‘one or any combination of the following
activities: supervising construction, managing construction activities by
making technical and administrative decisions, checking jobs for proper
workmanship, or direct supervision on construction job sites. (citations) All
of these are factual questions that should have been submitted to a jury for
determination.
 
            (Id.
at 606-607.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that Mr. Rymarcsuk had supervisory duties as to
company construction activities, including on a Santa Mix Project, and that
Business and Professions Code section 7068.1 does not require work on a
specific project. 
 
            The
Court agrees that, at the very least, Plaintiff’s evidence supports a
reasonable inference that he was employed by Icon, and was a qualified RME. As
such, a triable issue of material fact exists as to this issue. 
 
            As
to the second contention (i.e., True Glass), Plaintiff concedes that for the
period between 1/19/2021 and 2/11/2021, True Glass’s license was suspended.
However, Plaintiff submitted evidence that the license was reinstated on
2/11/2021, and the shop drawings that True Glass prepared according to the
invoice dated 5/11/21 would have been completed when True Glazing was licensed
(Exhibits 17 and 21 to Motion.) Given that Defendant’s evidence does not
foreclose the possibility that the work was completed either prior to the
suspension or after the license was reinstated, the Court agrees there is a
triable issue of fact as to this issue. 
 
            As
to the third contention (i.e., CMC), Plaintiff submitted evidence that CMC did
not do any construction work on the Project nor did it supply any materials.
Joseph McHugh testified “CMC Mechanical never supplied us with the materials.”
(See Exh. 18 to Motion, Deposition of J. McHugh Page 60:24-25 and Page
24:7-23.) Given that no license is required if no work is performed or
materials delivered, the Court finds there is a triable issue of fact as to
this issue. 
 
            Finally,
as to the fourth contention, (i.e., the separation between Icon and Straus),
Plaintiff submitted evidence that Icon was rebranded as Straus, as thus always
existed through the date of termination. 
 
Taken
together, this submitted evidence discloses a triable issue of material fact as
to all causes of action. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 