  Case Number:  24VECV04399    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  W DEREK
DEVERMONT v. CEDARS SINAI HEALTH VENTURES
 
defendant cedars-sinai medical
center’s motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
30, 2024                          Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV04399
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Derek Devermont
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Koumoulis Decl. ¶3.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff Derek
Devermont filed a complaint against Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (erroneously
sued as Cedars Sinai Health Ventures). On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint for negligence, assault and battery, false imprisonment
and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff also named Marvin
Samayoa as a defendant. 
 
Plaintiff alleges while sitting on a
public sidewalk located across from Defendant Cedars, Defendant Samayoa, a
security guard for Cedars, approached him and told Plaintiff he could not sit
there. After a verbal exchange, Plaintiff alleges Defendant Samayoa physically
attacked Plaintiff, put Plaintiff in handcuffs, and forced Plaintiff into a
holding room at Defendant Cedars while waiting for police to arrive. Plaintiff
alleges once the police arrived and had an opportunity to interview Plaintiff,
Plaintiff was free to leave without any charges against him. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended
Complaint is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center move to strike portions of the First Amended
Complaint by Plaintiff Derek Devermont on the grounds Plaintiff’s allegations
are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages against Cedars. 
 
The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (CCP § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) A plaintiff must assert facts with
specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice.¿ To wit, there is a heightened pleading requirement regarding
a claim for punitive damages.¿(Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.).)¿¿ 
 
“[T]he law
does not impute every employee's malice to the corporation. Instead, the
punitive damage statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the
‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent [s].’ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(b).)” (Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167.) “Managing
agents” are employees who “exercise substantial discretionary authority over
decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.” (Ibid. [citing White
v. Ultramar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 573].) “Corporate policy” is the general
principles which guide a corporation, or rules intended to be followed
consistently over time in corporate operations. Thus, a “managing agent” is one
with substantial authority over decisions that set these general principles and
rules. (Id. at 167-168.) “A corporation is not deemed to ratify
misconduct, and thus become liable for punitive damages, unless its officer,
director, or managing agent actually knew about the misconduct and its
malicious character.” (Id. at 163.)
 
Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages against Cedars in connect with the second, third, and
fourth causes of action for intentional tort. Cedars argues Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.
Specifically, Plaintiff must allege an officer, director, or managing agent was
involved in the alleged wrongdoing. However, Plaintiff merely alleges Cedars
ratified Mr. Samayoa’s conduct by providing a set of handcuffs, authorizing
and/or ratifying the wrongful conduct by approving or covering up the incident,
and did so intentionally with the conscious disregard of the rights and safety
of Plaintiff. Cedars contends Plaintiff’s boilerplate-type allegations are
insufficient to support punitive damages against Cedars.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues they have pled with sufficient particularity that
Defendant Samayoa did more than just “detain” Plaintiff and that Cedars not
only provided Defendant Samayoa with the handcuffs for the purpose of providing
security and safety on behalf of Cedars, but also authorized Defendant
Samayoa’s conduct by either approving or covering up his wrongful conduct
before and/or after this incident and/or other incidents, failed to investigate
or discipline Defendant Samayoa after receiving complaints he had engaged in
wrongful activity, had prior knowledge that Defendant Samayoa had used
excessive force in the past, failed to provide adequate training and
supervision and had policies which encouraged or permitted excessive force
and/or other misconduct. Plaintiff contends these are not low level decisions,
but rather reflect corporate policy requiring managing agent involvement. (See White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566-567.) Moreover, at the
pleading stage, Plaintiff need not identify specific managing agents. (See Doe
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
 
The court
finds the allegations sufficient for the purpose of a motion to strike. Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Cedars had a policy(ies), which encouraged excessive
force and/or other misconduct. While the complaint does not allege what officer,
director, or managing agent was involved in ratifying this conduct, it need not
be alleged at this time. Moreover, the allegations that Cedars authorized and/or
ratified the wrongful conduct by knowing of Defendant Samayoa’s violent
tendencies, failing to investigate complaints against Defendant Samayoa, and
then providing handcuffs to Defendant Samayoa even though Cedars knew he was
unfit is sufficient enough to overcome a motion to strike. Defendant’s
distinction that the cases cited by Plaintiff were at the trial stage and not
the pleading stage is not enough to support their claim that the allegations
here are insufficient. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First
Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 