 Case Number:  23STCV31650    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 JILL THEIS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LINDSEY GREEN, GUMM &GREEN LLP,
and DOES 1 THROUGH 10 INCLUSIVE, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV31650
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Date: June 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Lindsey Green and Gumm & Green LLP
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff,
Jill Theis
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging: (1) professional
negligence; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) breach of contract; (4) recession;
(5) fraud in the inducement; (6) misrepresentation of material facts; and (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On March 7, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Petition to Compel Arbitration (the “Petition”). Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the Petition and Defendant filed a reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
MOTIONS
Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Court files and records in
the action Jill A. Theis v. Mark E. Theis, Case No. B320844, herein
labeled as Defendant’s Exhibits A -D. 
The request is GRANTED under Evidence Code § 452(d), as the exhibits are
records of Los Angeles County Superior Court. 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendants
specially appear and pray for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to
binding arbitration pursuant to the parties' written contract, which expressly
provides that all complaints or disputes between the parties are to be
arbitrated.
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (See Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281, a “written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or
a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.
(c)
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. . . .”  (CCP §1281.2.)
 
The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.  (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv.
Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  When presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court's first task is to determine whether the parties
have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute. 
(Id.)  
 
“Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394] explained:
‘[W]hen a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court
itself must determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its
enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.  Because the existence of the agreement is a
statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the
burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.  If the party opposing the petition raises a
defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or
a statutory defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party
bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at
413.)  According to Rosenthal, facts
relevant to enforcement of the arbitration agreement must be determined ‘in the
manner . . . provided by law for the . . . hearing of motions.’ (Rosenthal,
supra, at 413, quoting §1290.2.)  This
‘ordinarily mean[s] the facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and
documentary evidence, with oral testimony taken only in the court’s
discretion.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at 413–414; . . .).”  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761-62.)
 
Existence of an
Agreement to Arbitrate
Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. 
(Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943,
947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed
to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of California contract law
help guide the court in making this determination.  (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With
respect to the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court.” 
(Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Defendants
provide the parties’ Contract for Legal Services which states that: 
…any dispute concerning services or billing shall be
resolved by binding arbitration. Any independent arbitrator, such as the
Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (JAMS) maybe used and selected by
the client. Binding arbitration shall take place in either Ventura County or
Los Angeles County. If such selection is not made within 30 days of the
notification of the dispute GUMM &GREEN may select the arbitration
service." 
 
(Declaration of Lindsey Green,; Exh. A p. 3.) Ms.
Green states that on or about June 11, 2021, she entered into the Contract for
Legal Services (the “Agreement”) with Plaintiff on behalf of Defendants Gum
& Green, LLP. Plaintiff dated and executed the Agreement on the same day. The
agreement bears  Plaintiff’s signature. (Id.;
Exh. A.) Plaintiff does not dispute that she signed and entered into an
agreement. Therefore, the Court finds that there exists an agreement to
arbitrate. 
 
The Agreement states that any dispute
concerning services shall be resolved by binding arbitration. As pleaded in the
Complaint, the dispute arises from the legal services provided by  Defendants in connection with the
post-judgment action to modify spousal support. Defendants correctly point out
that Plaintiff’s complaint specifically calls out the arbitration clause.
Plaintiff’s contentions about vagueness and the Agreement applies only to fee
disputes is unpersuasive, as the Agreement specifies that it applies to
disputes over legal services. Thus, the Court finds the dispute is subject to
the Agreement.
 
Unconscionability
In opposition to the
Petition, Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is unenforceable on
unconscionability grounds.
 
“Unconscionability” is one
of the principal defenses to a request for arbitration. It is a generally
applicable contract defense under California law (Civ. Code, § 1670.5). Two
elements must be shown: (1) “procedural” unconscionability and (2)
“substantive” unconscionability. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 C4th 83, 113-115.) The issue is reviewed in the context of when the
contract was signed. (Bakersfield College v. California Comm. College
Athletic Ass'n (2019) 41 CA5th 753, 762.) “The procedural element of
unconscionability focuses on whether the contract is one of adhesion.
Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there is “oppression” arising
from an inequality of bargaining power or “surprise” arising from buried terms in
a complex printed form. The substantive element addresses the existence of
overly harsh or one-sided terms. An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. However…the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.) (internal quotations and citations omitted).
 
a.    
Procedural Unconscionability 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Agreement
is a contract of adhesion because the arbitration language was deceptively
buried in the “Discharge” section of the Agreement and its terms were never
explained to Plaintiff. (Opp’n p. 8-10.) Plaintiff further cites State Bar of
California’s Ethics Opinion 1989-116 to support her contention that the
agreement is unenforceable. (Id. p. 9-10.) 
 
The
Court finds that the Agreement presents low procedural unconscionability, only
because it is not clear on the Agreement’s face that Plaintiff has agreed to
arbitrate her claims. While the Court agrees that the burying of the
arbitration provision within the Agreement presents some procedural
unconscionability, Plaintiff’s argument fails for several reasons. Initially, Plaintiff’s
reliance on the State Bar’s opinion fails for two critical reasons. First, the  opinion only addresses whether such agreements
are ethically improper, and the State Bar found nothing to be ethically
improper in including an arbitration provision in the initial attorney-client
retainer. Second, the opinion is not binding on the Courts. 
In
addition, the Agreement cannot be held to be a contract of adhesion because
Plaintiff was able to reject the Agreement and could have bargained for terms
of her choice if she so desired or retained different counsel. This position is
supported by the holding in Powers v. Dickson, Carlson & Campillo
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1110, as modified (May 23, 1997), where the court
found that neither the retainer agreement nor its subsequent amendment was an
adhesion contract because the client possessed substantial bargaining strength.
 
b.    
Substantive
Unconscionability 
Plaintiff
also argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because the
Agreement waives her right to a jury trial. (Opp’n p.9.) The Court notes that
the Agreement does not contain such a waiver. Although every agreement to arbitrate
effectively results in a waiver of a court trial and a jury, this does not make
agreements to arbitrate unconscionable.  Thus,
the Court finds that the Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
Pursuant to the Agreement,  Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (“JAMS”)
will be the arbitration forum. Thus, the Court finds that the parties' dispute
can be sufficiently arbitrated under CCP § 1281.6 through JAMS.
 
The Court further finds that a stay of the action is appropriate in this
case once the Petition is granted. (Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4.)  The Court GRANTS the Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and STAYS the proceeding pending a final resolution of
Plaintiff’s claims through arbitration. 
A Statue Conference re status of arbitration is set in this Court for
January 10, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Moving
Party are ordered to give notice of this ruling.         
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 3d day of June, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



