 Case Number:  24STCV03814    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  56 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



OLIVIA HUSSEY, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORP., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV03814
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE
  ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
Date: 
  June 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Trial: Not set. 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Attorney
Jeffrey D. Ullman
RESPONDING PARTY: None 
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers. No opposition
or reply papers were filed as of May 30, 2024. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On March 4, 2024, Olivia Hussey and Leonard Whiting filed their
operative First Amended Complaint against Paramount Pictures Corp., Criterion
Collections, Inc., and Janus Films, LLC for: (1) unlawful distribution of intimate
photographs; (2) unlawful use of likeness; (3) violation of performers rights
act of the United Kingdom; (4) Civil Code section 1708.85(a); and (5) 15 U.S.C.
section 6851(b). 
 
            On
April 3, 2024, attorney Jeffrey D. Ullman filed the instant application to be
admitted pro hac vice for Defendants The Criterion Collection, Inc. (s/h/a “Criterion Collections, Inc.”) and
Janus Films (s/h/a “Janus Films, LLC”). 
 
DISCUSSION
CRC, Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in
another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of
written application upon due notice to all interested parties, as well as
service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50 fee, provided
that the attorney (a) is not a California resident, (b) does not work in
California, and (c) does not perform regular or substantial business,
professional or other activities in California.
 
An application for pro hac vice admission must set forth: (1) the
applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which
the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) a
representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the
courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has
appeared pro hac vice in this State in the prior two years; and (5) the name,
address and phone number of the active California State Bar member with whom
the applicant is associated. (CRC, Rule 9.40(d).)
 
Under CRC, Rule 9.40(b), “[a]bsent special circumstances, repeated
appearances by any person under this rule is a cause for denial of an
application.”
 
Here, Mr. Ullman attests to his residence and his office address, which are
both in New Jersey. (Ullman Decl. ¶ 1.) He attests to all the courts to which he
has been admitted (with dates of admission) and that he is in good standing
with these courts and not currently suspended or disbarred from practice in any
court. (Id. at ¶¶ 1-3.) Mr. Ullman submits the name and address of the
active California State Bar member with whom the applicant is associated. (Id.
at ¶ 4.) He also attests that he has not filed any pro hac vice applications in
any California federal or state courts in the last two years. (Id. at ¶ 3.)
Further, the requisite fee was paid to the State Bar of California, and the
Notice of Hearing and the instant application were served on all interested
parties and on the State Bar of California. (Baheri Decl. at ¶¶ 3-4; POS.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Mr.
Ullman establishes that he has satisfied
the requirements to appear as counsel pro hac
vice pursuant to CRC, Rule 9.40.  The
Court therefore GRANTS the application. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
         
Dated this 3rd day of June 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 



