  Case Number:  23STCV03431    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
CHRISTIAN
  MAGLIOZZI,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
9
  SILVER LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV03431
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  02/15/23
Trial
  Date:  02/10/25
 
 



 
Hearing date:              June 10, 2024
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Christian Magliozzi
Responding
Party:      Defendant 9 Silver LLC
 
Motion for Leave to File a Third Amended Complaint
 
The court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
            The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file First Amended
Complaint.
 
Background
            On
February 15, 2023, plaintiff Christian Magliozzi (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against defendants 9 Silver LLC (“Defendant”), Witty Personnel LLC,
Helping Hands Rehab Linic, Inc., and Nathan Young, alleging causes of action
for (1) Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy; (2) Violation of
Unfair Competition Law; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4)
FEHA Retaliation; and (5) Whistleblower Protection. In the complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the defendants employed Plaintiff as an addiction counselor at a
clinic the defendants operated, and that the defendants wrongfully terminated
Plaintiff’s employment after Plaintiff reported illegal and unethical activity
at the clinic.  (Complaint,, ¶¶ 6, 14-35.)
            On
February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to file a First
Amended Complaint.  Defendant filed an
opposition on May 28, 2024.  Plaintiff
filed a reply on May 31, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms
as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding
or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name
of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by ther
code.”  The court has wide discretion to
allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)  Judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to
amend is liberally granted.  (Berman
vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  “[I]t is an abuse of discretion for the court
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.132424, a motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed
amendment and state the allegations that the moving party proposes to add or
delete.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (a).)  California Rules of
Court, rule 3.124 also requires that the moving party advance a declaration
stating the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper,
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(a).)
Discussion
            Plaintiff advances the declaration of his counsel, Beatriz
Alfaro (“Counsel”), in support of the motion. 
Counsel states that Plaintiff learned in discovery that Defendants Marc
Adler and Jose Toscano are additional owners of the addiction clinic where
Plaintiff worked.  As such, Plaintiff
seeks leave to add Marc Adler and Jose Toscano as additional defendants in this
action, and to allege that Marc Adler and Jose Toscano are liable as alter egos
of the addiction clinic where Plaintiff worked. 
(Declaration of Beatrix Alfaro, ¶¶ 11-17.)  This is a proper basis for amendment.  Resolving Plaintiff’s claims against Marc
Adler and Jose Toscano along with Plaintiff’s claims against the other
defendants is in the interests of justice. 

In opposition, Defendant argues that
Counsel’s declaration is insufficiently specific to support the motion.  The Court finds that Counsel’s declaration
complies with the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.  Further detail is unwarranted.  While Defendant argues that Plaintiff could
have learned about the relationship between Marc Adler and Jose Toscano and the
addiction clinic where Plaintiff worked before conducting discovery in this
matter, that is not a basis to deny leave to amend.  The court cannot deny Plaintiff’s request for
leave to amend even if Plaintiff delayed in seeking leave to amend, so long as
the amendment does not prejudice Defendant. 
(Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is prejudicial. 
The court has discretion to deny leave to amend where “the proposed
amendment opened up an entirely new field of inquiry without any satisfactory
explanation as to why this major change in point of attack had not been made
long before trial.”  (Estate of Murphy
(1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 304, 311.) 
Here, trial is set for February 10, 2025.  Given that trial date, Defendant must file
any motion for summary judgment by October 28, 2024.  That gives Defendant more than four months to
conduct discovery and prepare its motion for summary judgment.  While Defendant argues this is insufficient
time, the Court is unconvinced that Defendant will be unable to prepare its
summary judgment motion in this timeframe. 
Defendant fails to show that the amendment will prejudice
Defendant.  
The court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file First Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff’s proposed First Amended Complaint
is deemed filed and served this date.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
June 10, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 