 Case Number:  23PSCV03467    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’ OBJECTION AND MOTION FOR REDUCTION OF
AMOUNT OF BOND is GRANTED; bond is reduced to $15,000.00. In the
alternative, as there is no opposition, the court may impose no bond due to the
corporation’s lack of assets or money. 
 
Background
 
This case
pertains to business organizations case. Plaintiff HERITAGE GENERAL
CONTRACTING, INC. (“Heritage”); LARRY HARDEN, JR. (“Harden”); and ROLANCE JACK
MEHSERDJIAN (“MEHSERDJIAN”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the following
against Defendant SIMON DAVID MCPHERSON (“MCPHERSON” or “Defendant”): On
October 28, 2019, Heritage was formed with McPherson as the President,
Mehserdjian as the Chief Financial Officer, and Harden as the Secretary.
(Complaint ¶¶8, 11.) Each share an equal, one-third ownership share, comprising
of 33.3% each. (¶12.) Around May 2023, McPherson allegedly started scheming to
form a partnership using Heritage’s license. (¶¶20, 21.) Certain acts included
taking certain monies, property, and assets. 
 
On November
7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit asserting the following causes of action (COAs):
 
1.     Conversion
2.     Preliminary Injunction/Unfair Business
Practices (Bus. & Prof. C. § 17200, Et Seq.)
3.     Breach Of Fiduciary Duties
4.     Interference With Contract And/Or
Economic Relationship
5.     Interference With Prospective Economic
Relations
6.     Aiding And Abetting Breach Of
Fiduciary Duty
7.     Removal Of Director (Corp. Code § 304)
 
On November
22, 2023, the court issues the following minute order regarding ‘Plaintiff's
Ex-Parte Application And Application For A Temporary Restraining Order And
Order To Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction’: 
 
As to Plaintiff's Category (1) Request: Preserve all documents, devices,
electronic data files in Defendant's possession and/or copied and information
relating to Heritage, including communications between Defendant and Heritage's
customers, clients, vendors, contractors, and potential clients relating to
Heritage, Defendant's employment with Heritage, and Heritage's CSLB license No.
1061808, IS GRANTED.[1]
As to Plaintiff's Categories (2) thru (13), they are DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Plaintiff's Counsel is ordered to file a Supplemental Brief on or before
12/01/2023, by close of business day at 4:30 p.m. with email service to
Defendant's Counsel and/or SIMON MCPHERSON. Defendant's Counsel and/or SIMON
MCPHERSON are to file an Opposition on or before 12/08/2023, by close of
business day at 4:30 p.m. with email service to Plaintiff's Counsel.
Thereafter, Plaintiff's Counsel is to file a Reply on or before 12/12/2023, by
close of business day at 4:30 p.m. with email service to Defendant's Counsel
and/or SIMON MCPHERSON.
 
On December 11, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint
(“CC”) against Defendants Heritage, Rolhard Inc., Harden, MEHSERDJIAN, and Amy
KANESHIRO asserting the following COAs:[2] (1)   Assault (2)   Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (3)   Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress (4)   Defamation (5)   False Light (6)   Failure to Pay Wages (7)   Failure to Pay Wages (8)   Waiting Time Penalties (9)   Corporate Dissolution and Appointment
of Receiver (10)    Breach of Fiduciary Duties (11)                  
Removal
of Directors (12)                  
Falsification
and/or Destruction of Corporate Records (Corps. Code § 1507)
 
On December
19, 2023, the court issued its final ruling: “Plaintiffs’ Request for OSC Re:
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED in part (categories 1, 3 (modified,
only phone records after August 2023), 7 (return of the phone), 9 (return of
the laptop) and DENIED in part (2 (Defendant keeps his phone number), 4, 5
(denied because without the propriety information, Defendant cannot enter into
contracts), 6, 8, 10, 11, 12 (denied because no evidence that Defendant has a
thumb drive), 13 [13 is denied without prejudice should transfer of license to
another RMO be unsuccessful].) Bond: Bond to be posted by Plaintiffs in
the amount of $313,194.73 [calculated based upon the allegation of unlawful
transfers individual plaintiffs made from the corporate account].”
 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion
to reduce amount of bond. 
 
On February 7, 2024, the parties filed a ‘Joint
Stipulation And Order To Continue Hearing Dates And Deadlines,’ as the parties
are engaged in settlement discussions. 
 
There are various scheduled in this matter including a Hearing on Motion to Quash Supoena to Yvonne McPherson
set for 5/7/24, Hearing on Motion to Quash Subpoena to Countrywide Trial Lawyers, APLC
set for 5/8/24, Hearing on Motion to Quash Subpoena to COR Keith L. Shojii &
Associates set for 5/30/24. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Plaintiffs bring forth the motion
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) § 996.030. (Motion p.
4.) In turn, the statutes provides that a principal can move to reduce a bond
on a motion or declaration and a hearing can be held in the same manner as a
motion and hearing to determine whether a bond is insufficient. (See Code of
Civ. Pro. §§ 996.010, 529(a).) The Court or officer is authorized to “determine
that the amount of the bond is excessive and order the amount reduced to an
amount that in the discretion of the court or officer appears proper under the
circumstances.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 996.030(b).) The Court may also waive a
provision for bond and make any such appropriate orders where it determines
that the principal is unable to give the bond or is indigent. (CCP § 995.240.)
 
Discussion
 
In the court’s final ruling, the court noted that “[n]either
party adequately addressed the bond issue.” (See 12/19/23 Final Ruling.) With
little guidance from the parties as to what amount would provide a guarantee Defendant
against any damages may sustain should the court dismiss Plaintiffs’ lawsuit,
the court reasoned the following:  

Here, in determining Defendant’s harm (aside from incurring attorney fees with
its defense), Defendant’s cross complaint and declaration focus on the allegation
that two of the plaintiff shareholders have made improper/fraudulent transfers.
(See Defendant’s Decl., p. 4:6-22.) Adding those amounts, it amounts to about 1
million dollars, which is where Defendant presumably calculated its proposed
bond amount. The exact amount is $949,044.64. However, assuming that the
corporation is dissolved, then Defendant would be entitled to only 1/3 of that
amount (as each owns 33.33% of the corporation). One-third of the amount is
$313,194.731. 
 
In its motion, Plaintiffs argue that the fraud
allegations are not based on any credible evidence and that Defendant’s
potential damages caused by the injunction would at most be $15,000.[3]  
 
First, as to alleged fraudulent activity, the
allegations that were the basis for the bond amount calculation has been and
are refuted with opposing declarations. (Motion p. 6.) See, for example, the
following: 
 
“I am aware that Harden, Rolhard, and
Mehserdjian advanced funds to cover Heritage's business expenses. This include
expenses made on their personal credit cards. I am aware that credit card
payments, transfers, and checks to Harden, Rolhard, and Mehserdjian were
made in repayment of loans and advanced funds. I am also aware and believe
any other charges or "unexplained" expenses from 2020-2023 can be
easily linked and tracked to a legitimate Heritage expense.” (Kaneshiro
Decl., ¶6, emphasis added.)[4]
 
“The credit card payments, transfers, and checks to Harden, Rolhard, and
I were made in repayment of loans and advanced funds. Any other charge
or “unexplained” expense from 2020-2023 can be easily link and tracked to a
legitimate Heritage expense or expenses that McPherson incurred.” (Request for
Judicial Notice (RJN), Ex. 3 [Mehserdjian Decl., ¶10, emphasis added.) 
 
“All expense charges, credit card payments, or transfers from Heritage
to [Plaintiffs] were repayments of the loans and funds made to cover
Heritage’s expenses. For example, in 2022, Rolhard footed the bill for the
expenses incurred from a large project. As Heritage would get paid from this
project, Heritage would then repay Rolhard. Heritage also cut checks to Rolhard
for items such as rent and utilities.” (Harden Decl., ¶8, emphasis added.) 
 
In sum, most of
the checks were signed by Defendant (Kaneshiro Decl., ¶6) and as for the remainder, they were used for lawful
transfers to repay the individual Plaintiffs for their loans to the
company. 
 
To the extent that certain checks were improper,
Defendant has not identified any specific checks either in previous
filings or filed an opposition to state otherwise.  
 
Having resolved the issue that there is insufficient
evidence of fraud, the court now must determine a new bond amount. 
 
The purpose for the bond is to cover any damages
to the defendant that would be caused by the issuance of the injunction if it
is finally determined that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. 
 
Here, the injunction pertains to,
inter alia, Defendant preserving evidence, returning Heritage’s phone, and
returning Heritage’s laptop. As noted by Plaintiffs, any alleged harm does not
amount to $313,194.73. If anything, the damages would be zero because Defendant
is not working with Heritage such that he has no need for the phone, laptop,
contacts, etc. Furthermore, in favor of reducing the bond, Heritage explains
that the bond is unreasonable and excessive in light of the corporation’s
inability to conduct business. (See Kaneshiro Decl., ¶4 [“I am aware the
company is out of money and has not been able to conduct business.”].) 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, as
Defendant’s potential damages are minimal, the court reduces the bond amount to
$15,000.00. In the alternative, as there is no opposition, the court may impose
no bond due to the corporation’s lack of assets or money. (CCP § 995.240
[The Court may also waive a provision for bond and make any such appropriate
orders where it determines that the principal is unable to give the bond or is
indigent.].)
 


