 Case Number:  23PSCV01283    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Carol  Carmona, et al. v. General Motors, LLC  General  Motors LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court OVERRULES Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to  Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.  The Court DENIES Defendant General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike  Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Complaint.  Defendant must file and serve an Answer to the First Amended  Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order.                Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On April 27, 2023, plaintiffs Carol  Carmona and Juan Carmona (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action. On  October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against  Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes  of action for violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2,  violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2, violation of  subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2, breach of the implied warranty  of merchantability, and fraudulent inducement – concealment.  On December 22, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to  strike. On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to both motions. On  March 6, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency  of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form  or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  DISCUSSION –  Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Defendant was required to meet and confer with Plaintiff before bringing this  demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s  meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Yaragchian Decl., ¶ 2.)    Fifth Cause of Action – Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment  Defendant demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for  fraudulent inducement-concealment on the grounds that it: (1) is barred by the  statute of limitations; (2) fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action; and (3) fails to allege facts demonstrating a transactional  relationship between Defendant and Plaintiffs giving rise to a duty to  disclose. The Court will address each of these grounds below.  Statute of Limitations  Fraud causes of action are governed by a  three-year statute of limitations. (Kline v. Turner (2001)  87 Cal.App.4th 1369, 1373, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) A fraud  cause of action does not begin to accrue until the plaintiff discovers the  facts constituting the fraud. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d); Kline,  supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at p. 1374.) A demurrer based on the statute of  limitations lies only where the dates in question are disclosed on the face of  the complaint. (United W. Med. Centers v. Superior Ct.  (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 500, 505.)  Defendant contends the Fifth Cause of Action for  fraudulent inducement-concealment is barred by the statute of limitations because  they purchased the subject vehicle on or about September 22, 2018 and did not  file this action until April 27, 2023. Defendant also contends the delayed  discovery rule does not apply because Paragraph 14 of the FAC alleges that, “[d]efects  and nonconformities manifested themselves within the applicable express  warranty period…” (FAC, ¶ 14.) Defendant contends this is evidence that  Plaintiffs did not act with reasonable diligence in discovering the alleged  fraud.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend, among other  things, that their fraudulent inducement-concealment claim is timely because the  face of the FAC does not disclose a statute of limitations defense. Plaintiffs  argue the purchase of the subject vehicle does not trigger the applicable  statute of limitations here because it does not establish that Plaintiff  discovered facts constituting the fraud on that date.  The Court finds the face of the FAC does not disclose  the statute of limitations defense. First, merely purchasing the subject  vehicle is insufficient to trigger the statute of limitations here, as it is  unclear how purchasing the vehicle automatically puts the Plaintiffs on notice  of the facts constituting the alleged fraud, especially when no defects had yet  manifested. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) Defendant also fails to  cite any legal authority supporting that interpretation of the applicable  statute of limitations.  Second, Paragraph 14 of the FAC contains no dates and  does not clearly identify the dates when Plaintiffs learned of the alleged  fraud. (See FAC, ¶ 14.) The alleged occurrence of the defect within the  warranty period merely shows that the subject vehicle began to have problems in  that timeframe; it does not show that Plaintiffs were aware Defendant had  defrauded them into purchasing the subject vehicle. The FAC otherwise does not  disclose any dates that clearly show Plaintiffs were aware of the facts constituting  the fraud. Indeed, the first date alleged in the FAC regarding problems with  the subject vehicle, including the transmission, is January 4, 2021. (See FAC,  ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs allege that on such date, they presented the subject vehicle  to an authorized repair facility, which performed warranty repairs. (Id.)  For purposes of the demurrer, these allegations are taken as true. Even if you  could arguably use January 4, 2021 as the date Plaintiffs were aware of the  facts constituting fraud, the complaint was timely filed within three years.  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Fifth Cause of Action on the grounds that it is time-barred.  Failure to Allege Fraud with the Requisite Specificity  To  state a cause of action for fraudulent concealment, the plaintiff must allege  facts demonstrating: “(1) concealment or suppression  of a material fact; (2) by a defendant  with a duty to  disclose the fact to  the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended  to defraud the plaintiff  by intentionally concealing  or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware  of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known  of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage  as a result  of the concealment or suppression  of the fact. [Citation.]”(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Med. Grp., Inc. (2015)  238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162, citation omitted.)  “In California, fraud must be pled specifically;  general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations.] Thus the policy  of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to  sustain a pleading defective in any material respect. [Citation.] [¶] This  particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show  how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  [Citation.] A plaintiff's burden in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate  employer is even greater. In such a case, the plaintiff must allege the names  of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their  authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it  was said or written. [Citation.]” (Lazar v. Superior Ct.  (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotation marks omitted.) However, the  heightened pleading requirement is relaxed when the allegations show that the  defendant necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts. (Quelimane v. Stewart  Title Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.)  Defendant  contends the Fifth Cause of Action for fraudulent inducement-concealment fails  because Plaintiffs fail to allege with requisite specificity the identities of  the persons acting on behalf of Defendant who concealed material facts or made  false representations about the subject vehicle, their authority to speak on  behalf of Defendant, Defendant’s knowledge regarding alleged defects in the  subject vehicle, any interactions with Defendant before or during the purchase  of the subject vehicle, or Defendant’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiffs  to purchase the subject vehicle. Defendant also contends the FAC does not  allege facts demonstrating that the subject vehicle was unsuitable for its  intended use at the time of the purchase.  In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend the heightened pleading requirement is relaxed  here since Plaintiffs are alleging concealment, which necessarily makes it  difficult to allege facts showing how, when, and by what means the alleged representations  did not happen. Plaintiffs also cite the case of Dhital v. Nissan North  America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, which held that the plaintiffs had  pleaded fraud with the requisite specificity. (Id. at p. 844.) The Court  declines to address Plaintiffs’ citation to Dhital, as it is currently  pending review by the California Supreme Court, which renders it nonbinding  authority. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e)(1).)  The Court  agrees with Plaintiffs that since they are alleging fraud based on Defendant’s  nondisclosure, the heightened pleading requirements for fraud based on  affirmative misrepresentations are relaxed here. (See Alfaro v. Community  Housing Improvement System Planning Assn. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,  1384.) Notwithstanding, the FAC identifies the material defects and facts Defendant  knew prior to Plaintiffs’ acquisition of Subject Vehicle and withheld from  Plaintiffs (FAC, ¶¶ 70-71, 74-77, 79). The FAC allege facts showing that  Defendant had superior knowledge of the facts and how such knowledge was  obtained (FAC, ¶¶ 72, 80a-80b); the safety risks posed by the Transmission Defect  (FAC, ¶¶ 30, 71); the materiality of that information (FAC, ¶ 82); that Plaintiffs  were unaware of the concealed fact  and that they would not have purchased  the subject vehicle had they known of the concealed defect  (FAC,  ¶¶ 9-10, 73, 77, 82, 84); and that  Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiffs by selling the subject vehicle to  Plaintiffs with its known transmission defects and not disclosing them to  Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs suffered damages as a result. (See FAC, ¶¶ 68-84.) The  Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged fraud with the requisite specificity.  Based on the  foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for  lack of the requisite specificity.  Lack of a  Transactional Relationship  “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure  or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a  fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive  knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant  actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the  defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material  facts. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (LiMandri v. Judkins  (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.)  Defendant contends the Fifth Cause of  Action for fraudulent inducement-concealment fails because the FAC does not  allege that Plaintiffs purchased the subject vehicle directly from Defendant or  otherwise entered into a transaction with Defendant.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend a  transactional relationship is not required for the manufacturer to have a duty  to disclose and that transactional privity is not required. Plaintiffs then  cite Dhital, wherein the Court of Appeal found the plaintiffs’  allegations were sufficient to establish the existence of a buyer-seller  relationship. (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 844.) Plaintiffs  further argue that the FAC does allege the existence of a transactional  relationship between the parties, and that the transmission defect is a  material fact, poses safety risks, and arose during the warranty period.  The Court finds Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts for purposes of a transactional relationship between the  parties. The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs and Defendant entered into a warranty  contract for the subject vehicle. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-8, Ex. A.) The FAC also alleges  that Defendant was aware of the transmission defect before the subject vehicle  was sold to Plaintiffs while Plaintiffs were unaware of it, and that Defendant  actively concealed the defect. (FAC, ¶¶ 68-84.) The Court finds these  allegations sufficient to state the existence of a relationship between the  parties for purposes of a nondisclosure claim. (See LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 336.)  Moreover, since this is a  demurrer, the Court assumes the allegations are true and liberally construes  them in favor of the nonmoving party. (Donabedian, supra, 116  Cal.App.4th at p. 994; Code Civ. Proc., § 452 [“In the construction of a  pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be  liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”])  Also, as noted above, the Court declines to consider Dhital given its  current status pending review before the California Supreme Court.              Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to  the Fifth Cause of Action for lack of a transactional relationship.   LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a  pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part  thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to  motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.  (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper  matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike              Meet  and Confer              Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required  to meet and confer with Plaintiff before bringing this motion to strike. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s meet-and-confer  efforts sufficient. (Yaragchian Decl., ¶ 2.)              Analysis              “In an action for the breach of an obligation not  arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that  the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,  in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example  and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a); see also  Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (191 Cal.App.4th 53,  64 [claim for punitive damages subject to motion to strike where allegations do  not rise to the level of fraud, oppression, or malice necessary under Civil  Code section 3294.])              Defendant seeks to strike the prayer for punitive damages  from the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff may not recover punitive damages  based on the Song-Beverly Act claims, i.e., the First through Fourth Causes of  Action of the FAC. Defendant contends punitive damages are not available here  because the Song-Beverly Act provides for statutory penalties, and Plaintiffs  cannot demand both statutory penalties and punitive damages here. Defendant  further contends Plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages for their Fifth  Cause of Action for fraudulent inducement-concealment because it is not a  viable claim for the reasons set forth in their demurrer, and the FAC otherwise  fails to allege facts that satisfy the statutory standard.              In opposition, Plaintiffs contend Defendant’s demurrer is  meritless, and therefore the motion to strike fails as well. Plaintiffs contend  they are able to recover both statutory penalties and punitive damages here  because the causes of action are based on different conduct that occurred at  different times. Plaintiffs contends their Song-Beverly Act claims are distinct  from their fraud claim. Plaintiffs further contend they have alleged sufficient  facts evidencing oppression, fraud, or malice for purposes of their punitive  damages claim. Plaintiffs also argue that punitive damages are available under  the Song-Beverly Act, and that they may seek both punitive damages and  statutory penalties at the pleading stage.              The Court finds the punitive damages request in the FAC  is not subject to a motion to strike. First, while the Court does not hold that  punitive damages are an available remedy under the Song-Beverly Act, Plaintiffs  may seek both punitive damages based on their fraud claim and statutory  penalties based on their Song-Beverly Act claims because they are based on  different conduct that occurred at different times. (Anderson v. Ford Motor  Co. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 946, 962-963.) Plaintiffs are entitled to seek  both punitive damages and statutory penalties at the pleading stage. (See Clauson  v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256.) Second, given the  Court’s overruling of Defendant’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for  fraudulent inducement-concealment, the Court finds the FAC also alleges  sufficient facts to state a claim for punitive damages. (See Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (a).)              Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike.  CONCLUSION  The Court OVERRULES Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to  Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.  The Court DENIES Defendant General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike  Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Complaint.  Defendant must file and serve an Answer to the First Amended  Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order.                Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.