 Case Number:  22SMCV02702    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Ebby Shakib v. Jamshid Goltche,
et al. 



Case No.:


22SMCV02702


Complaint Filed:


12-15-22         




Hearing Date:


12-12-23 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


5


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK 


 Trial Date:


Not Set



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO VACATE APPOINMENT OF
ACCOUNTING REFEREE
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Ebby Shakib
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendants Jamshid
Goltche, 26 Global Infinity, LLC and Rodeo Enterprises, LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff
Ebby Shakib’s Motion to Vacate Appointment of Accounting Referee is DENIED. The
Court declines to exercise its discretion under CCP § 473(d) to vacate the needed
and well-reasoned order to appoint an accounting referee.
 
            “The
motion [to appoint a referee under CCP § 639] must be heard by the judge to
whom the case is assigned, or by the presiding judge or law and motion judge if
the case has not been assigned.” (CA ST CIVIL RULES Rule 3.921.)
 
            “The
presiding judge may, on the noticed motion of a party or on the court's own
motion, order the assignment of any case to one judge for all or such limited
purposes as will promote the efficient administration of justice.” (CA ST CIVIL
RULES Rule 3.734.)
 
            “Section
473, subdivision (d), provides a trial court “may, on motion of either party
after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.
[I]nclusion of the word ‘may’ in the language of section 473, subdivision (d)
makes it clear that a trial court retains discretion to grant or deny a motion
to set aside a void judgment [or order]. However, the trial court “has no
statutory power under section 473, subdivision (d) to set aside a judgment [or
order] that is not void....” (Pittman v. Beck Park Apartments Ltd. (2018)
20 Cal.App.5th 1009, 1020.)
 
            Plaintiff
Ebby Shakib (“Shakib”) argues that Judge Mackenzie was not the  assigned judge when she granted the motion to
appoint an accounting referee because the case was never officially assigned to
Judge Mackenzie for all purposes through an court order. Shakib argues Judge
Mackenzie was thus without authority to hear the motion, which means the
referee appointment is void. (Motion, pp. 4–7.)  The Court is not persuaded Judge Mackenzie’s
order is void. (See, People v. North River Insurance Co. (2020) 48 Cal. App.
5th 226, 233 (“A judgment is “void” only when the court entering
that judgment “lack[ed] jurisdiction in a fundamental sense” due to the “
‘entire absence of power to hear or determine the case’ ” resulting from the “
‘absence of authority over the subject matter or the parties.’ ” (Citations.)
To be sure, a court that “ ‘ “acts contrary to [its] authority” ’ ” “ ‘to give
certain kinds of relief, or to act without the occurrence of certain procedural
prerequisites’ ” is often said to lack “jurisdiction.” (Citation.) But such
acts do not render the court's ensuing judgment or order void. That is because
“jurisdictional errors can be of two types[:] A court can lack fundamental
authority over the subject matter, question presented, or party, making its
judgment void, or it can merely act in excess of its jurisdiction or defined
power, rendering the judgment voidable. (Citation.) Only void judgments and
orders may be set aside under section 473, subdivision (d); voidable judgments
and orders may not. (Citations).”)
 
            Regardless,
the Court finds that although Judge Mackenzie may not have been formally
assigned this case for all purposes by order of the presiding judge when she
heard the CCP § 639 motion, in all other respects the motion had merit.  Indeed, the Court agrees that a referee
should be appointed to perform an accounting and would order one to be
appointed again for the same good reasons found by Judge Mackenzie.  If the parties desire more clarity regarding
the purpose and scope of the accounting, they may submit an appropriate stipulation
and proposed order, or bring an appropriate motion to clarify and/or modify the
scope of work to be performed by the accounting referee. 