 Case Number:  22STCV00297    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  C CIORLIERI v. LAPSI INN
CASE NO.:  22STCV00297 
HEARING:  06/27/24
 
#4
 
    
I.       
Defendants ANMOL INVESTMENT, INC.; NIRU PATEL;
SANP TRAKER; and PIYUSH PATEL’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
with 30 days leave to amend in part; and OVERRULED in part.  
 
    II.       
Defendants ANMOL INVESTMENT, INC.; NIRU PATEL;
SANP TRAKER; and PIYUSH PATEL’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiff CARMELINA
CIORLIERI (“Plaintiff”) on January 4, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or
about January 4, 2020, Plaintiff… checked in at the hotel with her boyfriend…
and was assigned a room…. [¶] That night…Ms. Ciorlieri and Mr. Medina
discovered bedbugs in the hotel bed. Furthermore, Ms. Ciorlieri inspected her
body to discovery she had been bitten across her arms, chest, and thighs.”
(Complaint ¶¶16-17.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts the following causes of
action: 
 
(1) Battery;

(2) Negligence;

(3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
(4) Fraudulent
Concealment; 
(5) Private
Nuisance; 
(6) Public
Nuisance; 
(7) Breach
of Contract
 
Defendants ANMOL INVESTMENT, INC.; NIRU PATEL; SANP TRAKER;
and PIYUSH PATEL (collectively “Defendants) specially and generally demur to
the first, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
Defendants argue
that the first, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action are fatally uncertain. This argument lacks merit because
“[a] special demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach the failure to
incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed at the uncertainty
existing in the allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira (1950)
100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover, demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif. Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.) Here, it is clear
from Defendants’ other arguments that they understand what the Complaint at
least attempts to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The Demurrer is not
sustained on the basis of uncertainty. 
 
First Cause of Action – Battery 
 
“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery
are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with
the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the
touching” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants deliberately chose not to
eradicate known bedbug infestations at the hotel, which resulted in bedbugs
making offensive contact with Plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff’s allegations are devoid of factual allegations
showing how Defendant, or its employees or agents, intentionally touched or
intentionally harmed Plaintiff. 
 
In support of his battery claim, Plaintiff relies heavily on
a Seventh Circuit case, Mathias v. Acor Econ Lodging, Inc. (7th Cir.
2003) 347 F.3d 672. However, Mathias is no more than persuasive
authority here, as it is governed by Illinois law and was not decided by
California principles. Further, although Mathias involved allegations
related to bedbug exposure, the Mathias Court did not conclude that
battery was a valid claim—rather, the issue was addressed as a hypothetical.
(See Mathias v. Accor Econ. Lodging, Inc. (7th Cir. 2003) 347 F.3d 672,
675. [“Its failure either to warn guests or to take effective measures to
eliminate the bedbugs amounted to fraud and probably to battery as
well….”].)  
 
Plaintiff does not cite any binding California authority in
Opposition that would support his claim for battery. The demurrer to the first
cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.  
 
Third Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress 
 
A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress consists of three elements: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
Defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard for the
possibility of causing, emotional distress; (2) Plaintiff suffering severe or
extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the
emotional distress by Defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) Outrageous conduct is defined as conduct that is
“so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Id. at p. 1050-1051.) An action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress may be premised on a landlord or property manager’s
knowing, intentional, and willful failure to correct defective conditions of
the premises. (See Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057,
1069.) The failure to correct defective conditions must be “directed at the
plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is
aware.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965,
1002.)
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
Plaintiff’s allegations, liberally construed for purposes of demurrer,
sufficiently plead that Defendants knew about and failed to correct the bedbug
infestation after receiving notice. Whether that conduct be considered
“outrageous” or whether Plaintiff’s injuries are sufficiently “severe” enough
are factual issues. Plaintiff’s ability to prove his allegations are not
properly adjudicated at this time. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Fraudulent Concealment 
 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud and deceit
based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.) “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity… [t]o
withstand a demurrer, the facts constituting every element of the fraud
must be alleged with particularity, and the claim cannot be salvaged by
references to the general policy favoring the liberal construction of
pleadings. (Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 772, 782.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “The requirement of specific in a fraud action against a
corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made
the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations are insufficient. Legal
conclusions or mere recitations of law do not suffice. As noted, specificity is
required. Plaintiff must plead facts to show that Defendants had actual
knowledge of the presence of bedbugs in Plaintiff’s room at the time Plaintiff
was renting the room. The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED
with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action – Public Nuisance 
 
A nuisance is statutorily defined as anything “injurious to
health” or “indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction of the free
use of property” that interferes “with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property…” (Cal. Civ. Code §3479.) “A public nuisance is one which affects at
the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number
of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon
individuals may be unequal.” (Cal. Civ. Code §3480.) 
 
Plaintiff’s fails to allege facts to support a claim for
public nuisance. Specifically, Plaintiff does not allege that a “considerable
number of persons” were affected at the same time, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property that affects at the same time an
entire community or neighborhood. The demurrer to this cause of action is
SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is
“irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to
strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.) 
 
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity. Plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing that Defendant’s conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) Cal.App.4th
1033, 1041-1042.). Given the Court’s
findings above, the motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED with 30 days
leave to amend. As alleged, Plaintiff has failed to plead specific facts to
maintain a claim for punitive damages. 
 