 Case Number:  23NWCV01923    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  C COOPER v. OCTAPHARMA PLASMA, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV01923
HEARING: 
06/27/24
 
#1
 
    
I.       
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant CAITLIN RYAN’s Responses to Special Interrogatories
(set two) is DENIED.
 
   
II.       
Defendants’
Motion for Vexatious Litigant determination and for an Order Requiring
Plaintiff to Furnish Security Pursuant to CCP §391 et seq. is CONTINUED to
Thursday, July 11, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
 
Defendant(s)
to give Notice. 
 
Motion to
Compel 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding
party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (CCP §
2030.290.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served
on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show
a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before
filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not
show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be
accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The
failure to timely respond also waives all objections. 
 
Plaintiff
(in pro per) moves to compel Defendant CAITLIN RYAN’s (“Defendant” or “Ryan”)
initial verified responses, without objections, to Special Interrogatories (set
two). Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s responses are insufficient because
Defendant’s responses are improperly signed/verified.  
 
Plaintiff
served a second set of Special Interrogatories to Defendant Caitlin Ryan on
September 25, 2023. On Friday, October 27, 2023, Defendant Ryan served timely
responses. Attached to Defendant Ryan’s Responses is a signed Verification
page, which states: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.” (Horner Decl., ¶4,
Ex. B.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that CCP § 2030.250(a) should be interpreted to mean that if the oath is
on the verification page, and not on the response itself, the response should
be deemed unverified. However, the Code’s oath requirement is typically
satisfied by a signature on the verification page. The Code only requires
responding party to “sign the response under oath.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2030.250, subd. (a).) In practice, the responding party may sign a
verification form attached or inserted at the end of the answers stating that
that the party: “certify and declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of
the State of California that the foregoing answers are true and correct.” (See
CCP § 2015.5.) (Wiel & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 2020) ¶ 8:1103; see also Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civil
Proceedings – Discovery (CJER Sept. 2022) Inspection Demands, § 19.15.)
 
Here, the
verification form is signed by Defendant Caitlin Ryan. (Horner Decl., ¶ 4, Ex.
B.) Accordingly, the Court finds the response is adequately signed and verified.
 
The Motion
is DENIED. Therefore, Plaintiff’s accompanying request for sanctions is also
DENIED. 
 
Defendant’s Request for
Sanctions is GRANTED. The Court may impose a
monetary sanction against any party who unsuccessfully makes such a motion to
compel without substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd.
(b).) The sanctions are authorized to “pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)The Court concludes that the Plaintiff has not
acted with substantial justification. Although Plaintiff is representing
herself pro per and presumably has held a good-faith belief at the filing of
the first motion to compel responses, the Court has subsequently informed
Plaintiff through both written rulings and at hearings that this argument has
no basis in the law. However, Plaintiff has continued to file subsequent
discovery motions alleging the same legal arguments as to every discovery
request it propounds against any party in this matter. Therefore, the Court is
doubtful that these motions are being brought in good-faith and finds that
Plaintiff has not brought this motion with substantial justification.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant Ryan’s Request for Sanctions. However,
the Court, at this time, is only inclined to impose sanctions in the amount of
$100.00.
 