 Case Number:  VC065875    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  C BELMAN v. GARCIA
AND GALLARZO PROPERTY HOLDINGS, LLC 
CASE NO.: VC065875
HEARING:  06/27/24
 
#3
 
Former Defendant/Cross-Complainant MARIELA I. GARCIA’s
Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to CCP §128.5 is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
 
Initially, the Court must determine whether or not it has the
authority/jurisdiction to adjudicate this Motion at this time. Opposing
Party/Plaintiff argues that this Court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate this
Motion because this case is stayed pending appeal. “[T]he perfecting of an
appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed
from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including
enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any
other matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.”
(CCP §916(a).)  Upon review of the Court’s docket
in this matter, there does not appear to be any pending appeals or stays.
Although an appeal was filed by Defendant Los Bagres Corporation on or about
August 21, 2023, a Notice of Abandonment of Appeal was entered on October 31,
2023. The Court does not lack authority to issue a ruling on this Motion, and
the Court will rule on the merits. 
 
The relevant procedural history of this case is as follows: 
·       
On June 14, 2023, a Judgment, reflecting a
jury’s verdict, was entered. The June 14, 2023 Judgment awarded
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant LORENA BELMAN (“Belman”) $197,750
from Defendants LOS BAGRES CORPORATION; JUAN ERASMO GARCIA; and GIZZELLE
CABRERA, jointly and severally, plus recoverable costs in the amount of
$31,005.42; and expert costs from Los Bagres Corporation and Juan Erasmo Garcia
in the amount of $7,110.00; and attorney’s fees in the amount of $699,990.00.
·       
Belman moved to set aside the Judgment entered
on June 14, 2023 “and/or” enter a new judgment notwithstanding the verdict; and
also separately moved for new trial. 
·       
On December 14, 2023 Judge Brian Gasdia took
Belman Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict; Motion for New Trial;
and Motion to Set Aside/Vacate the Judgment under submission. 
·       
On December 18, 2023, Judge Brian Gasdia issued
a ruling denying both: Belman’s Motion to Set Aside Judgment and/or for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict; and Belman’s Motion for New Trial. 
 
On November 16, 2023, Former Defendant/Cross-Complainant
MARIELA GARCIA (“Garcia”) Defendants served the subject Motion for Sanctions,
seeking sanctions under CCP §128.5 for Garcia’s filing of “frivolous” Motions
for New Trial and for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict (“JNOV”). Garcia
waited until the “safe harbor” period had passed, and then filed the subject Motion
for Sanctions on December 15, 2023. 
 
Garcia contend that Belman’s Motion for New Trial and JNOV
Motions were filed in violation of CCP §128.5, in that they were patently frivolous
and made in bad faith. 
 
“(a) A trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney,
or both to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay…... (b)…. (1) ‘Actions
or tactics’ include…the making or opposing of motions or the filing and service
of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading…... (2)
‘Frivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party.” (CCP §128.5(a), (b)(1-2).) 
 
The fact that a motion or motions
lack merit is not enough by itself to justify an award of sanctions under
Section 128.5. It is error to award sanctions if it was not unreasonable for
the moving party to think the issues raised were arguable, and there is no
evidence of subjective bad faith or improper motive. (Garcia v. Sterling
(1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.) “[A] showing that a party’s action or tactic is
totally and completely without merit does not settle the issue of whether the
action or tactic was in bad faith. Such a showing is certainly evidence that
the action is brought in bad faith [Citation], because a trial court is
entitled to infer from the utter lack of merit that the party knew that it
lacked such merit, and yet continued to pursue the action for some ulterior
motive. However, the trial court may not be willing to draw the inference if it
is convinced that, despite the complete lack of merit, the party was acting in
the good faith (albeit erroneous and even unreasonable) belief that the action
was meritorious. Thus, the inference of bad faith is one which the trial court
may make, but it is not mandatory that it do so.” (Summers v. City of
Cathedral City (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1047, 1073.) 
 
The Motion for CCP §128.5
sanctions is DENIED. Based on the record before it, the Moving Party has not
affirmatively established that Belman acted with subjective bad faith in filing
and arguing the underlying Motion for New Trial and JNOV Motion. Although the
Motions were ultimately unsuccessful, this fact is not enough to warrant
sanctions under CCP §128.5.  
 
 