 Case Number:  23NWCV02616    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  C ANDRADE v. LA
MIRADA HEALTHCARE, LLC
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02616
HEARING:  06/27/24
 
#2
 
     I.       
Defendant LA MIRADA HEALTHCARE, LLC’s Demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
    II.       
Defendant LA MIRADA HEALTHCARE, LLC’s Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action for elder abuse was filed by Plaintiffs JUAN ANDRADE by and
through his Successor In Interest Maria L. Andrade; MARIA ANDRADE individually;
and BENNY ANDRADE individually (collectively “Plaintiff”) on August 16, 2023.  
 
On February 27, 2024, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was
filed. “Plaintiff JUAN ANDRADE, deceased, (hereinafter ‘PLAINTIFF’ or
‘Decedent’)… at all times relevant to this action was over the age of 65 years
old and was therefore an ‘elder’ within the meaning of Welf. & Inst. Code
§15610.27. JUAN ANDRADE passed away on August 11, 2022, as a proximate result
of Defendants’ neglect and abuse.” (FAC ¶1.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Elder
Abuse and Neglect; 
(2) Negligence/Willful
Misconduct;
(3) Violations
of Patient’s Bill of Rights; and 
(4) Wrongful
Death
 
Defendant LA MIRADA HEALTHCARE, LLC (“Defendant”) specially
and generally demurs to the first, second, and third causes of action. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
Defendant argues
that the first, second, and third causes of action are fatally uncertain. This argument lacks merit because “[a]
special demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach the failure to
incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed at the uncertainty
existing in the allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira (1950)
100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover, demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif. Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.) Here, it is clear
from Defendants’ other arguments that they understand what the FAC at least attempts
to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The Demurrer is not sustained on
the basis of uncertainty. 
 
First Cause of Action –
Elder Abuse 
 
A cause of action
under the Elder Abuse Act must be alleged with particularity.    (See Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)  
Acts that constitute mere professional negligence do not constitute
elder abuse.  “In order to obtain the
remedies available in section 15657, a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence;
he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct. The
latter three categories involve "intentional," "willful,"
or "conscious" wrongdoing of a "despicable" or
"injurious" nature. ‘Recklessness’ refers to a subjective state of
culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a
‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that an injury will
occur. Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves more than ‘inadvertence,
incompetence, unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions’ but rather
rises to the level of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action… with knowledge
of the serious danger to others involved in it. [Citations Omitted.]” (Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.)  
“To recover the enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act
from a health care provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even
gross negligence in the provider's care or custody of the elder.”  (See Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
396, 405.)  “‘[T]he legislature intended
the Elder Abuse Act to sanction only egregious acts of misconduct distinct from
professional negligence….” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 784.) 
 
In summary, to
plead a cause of action for elder abuse under the Act based on neglect, a
plaintiff must allege facts establishing that the defendant: “(1) had
responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,”
“(2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to
provide for his or her own basic needs”; and “(3) denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain…or with conscious
disregard for the high probability of such injury….” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405-407.) A
plaintiff must also allege facts demonstrating that the neglect caused the
elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering
such that the causal link between the neglect and injury is specifically
alleged. (Id at 407.) 
 
Section
15610.63(a)(1) defines neglect in relevant part as follows: “The negligent
failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or dependent adult
to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position
would exercise.” Subsection (b) provides specific examples of neglect, and
states in relevant part: “Neglect includes… (3) [f]failure to protect from
health and safety hazards.” 
 
To state an elder
abuse claim against an entity, a plaintiff must allege facts showing that an
officer, director, or managing agent of defendant was involved in the abuse,
authorized the abuse, ratified the abuse or hired the person who did the abuse
with advance knowledge of the persons unfitness and hired him with a conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others. (Welf. & Inst. Code
§15657(c); Cal. Civ. Code §3294.) “[T]he Act does not apply unless the
defendant health care provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial
relationship, involving ongoing responsibility for one or more basic needs,
with the elder patient.” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63
Cal.4th 148, 152.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that Defendant knew of Decedent’s
history of c-diff, malnutrition, the fact that he required a Foley catheter,
had a recent history of urinary tract infection, decreased appetite, abdominal
pain and diarrhea, yet withheld care with conscious disregard that withholding
such would likely result in Decedent’s deterioration. (FAC ¶¶33 and 43.) 
 
On demurrer, the
Court is bound to accept Plaintiff’s allegations and construe the allegations
‘liberally in favor of the pleader.’ (Ferrick v. Santa Clara University
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1341.) The arguments raised by Defendant raise
factual determinations improperly resolved at this stage in the litigation. 
 
The demurrer to
the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Second Cause of
Action – Negligence/Willful Misconduct 
 
In order to
establish willful misconduct, a plaintiff must prove not only the elements of a
negligence cause of action, that is, duty, breach of duty, causation, and
damage, but also (1) actual or constructive knowledge of the peril to be
apprehended, (2) actual or constructive knowledge that injury is probable, as
opposed to a possible, result of the danger, and (3) conscious failure to act
or avoid the peril (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Association, Inc.
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1140.) “The act or omission must be even more
specifically described in order to raise it to the level of willful misconduct.
No claim of willful misconduct can be stated without alleging the specific act
or omission that caused the injury.” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 528.) 
 
Plaintiffs’
allegations with respect to the second cause of action incorporate by reference
the allegations set forth with respect to the first cause of action. Consequently,
Plaintiffs adequately allege that Defendant knew of Decedent’s history of
c-diff, malnutrition, and urinary tract infections, yet failed to address
Decedent’s medical condition that ultimately resulted in Plaintiff’s death due
to septic shock on August 11, 2022. 
 
The demurrer to
the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of
Action – Violation of Resident Rights 
 
“A current or
former resident or patient of a skilled nursing facility…. or intermediate care
facility…may bring a civil action against the licensee of a facility who violates
any rights of the resident or patient as set forth in the Patients Bill of
Rights…or any other right provided for by federal or state law or regulation.”
(Cal. Health and Safety Code §1430(b).) 
 
Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. Plaintiff adequately
alleges a claim for a Violation of Health and Safety Code §1430(b). (See FAC  ¶71.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
The motion to strike general
damages, punitive damages, costs of suit, and attorney’s fees is DENIED. Plaintiffs
adequately allege that Defendants engaged in malicious and/or despicable
conduct under the cause of action for dependent/adult abuse sufficient to
warrant such remedies. 
 
 