 Case Number:  22STCV23004    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  C MCCLENON v. CITY
OF CERRITOS
CASE NO.: 22STCV23004
HEARING:  06/27/24
 
#6 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant BRIGHTVIEW TREE SERVICES, INC.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.

 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
This action for premises liability was filed by Plaintiffs
JERRY MCCLENON, individually and as Successor-In-Interest to the Estate of
DAVID WALTER MCCLENON, Deceased; KELLY MCCKENON, individually; and DAWN
KASARDA, individually (collectively “Plaintiffs”) against Defendants CITY OF
CERRITOS (“City”); and BRIGHTVIEW TREE CARE SERVICES, INC. (“Brightview”)
(collectively “Defendants”) on July 18, 2022. 
 
On November 7, 2022 the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) was filed. Plaintiffs allege that “[t]his action involves a trip and
fall on a defective public sidewalk located between 13745 and 13751 Beach
Street in the City of Cerritos, County of Los Angeles, State of California.”
(FAC ¶1.) “Plaintiffs…allege[] that on or about September 26, 2021, the City of
Cerritos maintained the sidewalk located between 13745 and 13751 Beach Street
Cerritos, CA 90703…. Defendant Brightview Tree Care Services Inc., performed
tree trimming and related arborist maintenance at or near the subject PREMISES
on March 5, 2021. Because of Defendant the City of Cerritos’ and Defendant
Brightview Tree Care Services Inc.’s blatant neglect and failure to maintain,
repair, and control the sidewalk and parkway located between 13745 and 13751
Beach Street Cerritos, California—the Decedent sustained fatal injuries.” (FAC
¶20.) “Prior to September 26, 2021, an employee or employees of Defendant the
City of Cerritos, negligently designed, built, constructed and/or maintained
the PREMISES in that the height, slope, vertical displacement and/or the tree
selection and/or placement exceeded reasonable design guidelines and practices
relating to the public sidewalk and public parkway.” (FAC ¶25.) 
 
The City contracted with Brightview to perform certain tree
trimming services, and entered into a Professional Services Agreement on or
about September 12, 2019. (See Motion Ex.3). 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Dangerous
Condition of Public Property against City of Cerritos; 
(2) Negligence
against Brightview Tree Care Services, Inc.; 
(3) Premises
Liability against Brightview Tree Care Services, Inc.; and
(4) Wrongful
Death against all Defendants
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Brightview moves for summary
judgment, arguing that Brightview owed no duty to the Decedent and that the
subject sidewalk was not a dangerous condition. Brightview does not
alternatively move for summary adjudication. The second, third, and fourth
causes of action are asserted against Brightview. 
 
Although separated
into three causes of action, all theories are derivative of negligence. This is
a wrongful death action based on a duty arising from premises liability. The
elements of a premises liability claim and negligence claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) Wrongful
death requires the wrongful act or negligence to cause the death of another. (Nogart
v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 404.) 
 
Second and Third
Causes of Action Cause of Action – Negligence and Wrongful Death
 
Brightview argues
that it owed no duty to repair or maintain the public sidewalk. 
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that Brightview undertook the duty to repair or maintain the
public sidewalk. 
 
To state a cause of action for liability under the negligent
undertaking theory, a plaintiff must show: (1) the defendant undertook to
render services to another; (2) those services where of a kind the defendant
should have recognized as necessary for the protection of third parties; (3)
the defendant failed to exercise reasonable care in the performance of the
undertaking; (4) the failure to exercise reasonable care resulted in physical
harm to the third persons and (5) either (a) the defendant’s carelessness
increased the risk of such harm; (b) the undertaking was to perform a duty owed
by the other to the third party; or (c) the harm was suffered because of the
reliance of the other or the third person upon the undertaking. (Id. at
614.)  The question of whether a
defendant’s actions constitute an undertaking sufficient to give rise to an
actionable duty of care is a legal question. (Id. at 615.) “However,…
there may be fact questions about precisely what it was that the defendant
undertook to do… [t]hus, if the record can support competing inferences… an
ultimate finding on the existence of a duty can not be made prior to a hearing
on the merits, and summary judgment is precluded.” (Id.) 
 
The Court has reviewed the terms of the September 12, 2019
Service Agreement between Brightview and City, attached as Exhibit 3 to
Brightview’s Motion. The Court does not find the Service Agreement contains any
terms stating that Brightview undertook the duty to notify the City of
dangerous or defective sidewalk conditions. Moreover, the Court does not find
that Brightview has submitted any evidence to show that Brightview contracted
or undertook any duty to immediately correct or report conditions which may have
contributed, caused, or created unsafe or hazardous conditions. 
 
Summary adjudication of the second and fourth causes of
action would be properly granted for these reasons. 
 
Third and Fourth
Causes of Action – Premises Liability and Wrongful Death
 
Brightview argues
that they owed no duty to Decedent because it did not own or control the public
sidewalk, including the raised portion of the sidewalk, where Decedent fell;
and that Brightview did not owe a duty to Decedent because the subject sidewalk
was not a dangerous condition. 
 
The elements of a
cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence;
duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) To prevail on ta claim for premises
liability, a plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the
subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the
property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.) 
 
As indicated above,
a plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the
plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages to establish a cause of
action for premises liability. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally
have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to
avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) 
 
It is undisputed
that Brightview did not own, legally possess, or otherwise have the right to
control the subject sidewalk or the area surrounding the subject sidewalk where
the Subject Incident occurred. (See SS No. 2; Response No. 2.) Plaintiffs have
not established that Brightview exerted any control over the public sidewalk.
At most, there is some evidence produced that the sidewalk may have been
inspected when Brightview performed tree trimming services. This does not
sufficiently establish Brightview’s control over the subject sidewalk. 
 
Adjudication of the third
and fourth causes of action in Brightview’s favor would be properly granted. 
 
Summary judgment is
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Gerrad Hills
 
No. 1. Overruled 
No. 2. Sustained 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Christopher C. Surh
 
No. 1. Overruled 