 Case Number:  23STCV06306    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  26 7/31/2024 
Dept. 26
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MANRIQUE v. CARBONEL (23STCV06306)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Nestor Manrique
(Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party: Estefan Encarnacion (Defiant Law)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION (filed 11/27/2023)
(2)   DEFENDANT PEGGI CARBONEL’S MOTION TO SET
ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT (filed 01/08/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. 
 
The Court
DENIES Defendant’s motion to set aside default. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On March 22, 2023, Plaintiff Nestor Manrique
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Peggi Carbonel, Catherine
Palomino and Mildred Barberena. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following. The
complaint makes two claims in that Defendants fraudulently transferred
Plaintiff’s real property and Plaintiff’s title to a vehicle.  (Complaint
¶¶ 9-16.)  Plaintiff seeks in relevant part to cancel these
transfers.  (Complaint ¶¶ 17-22.2.) The Complaint alleges causes of
action for:  
1.    
Cancellation of Instrument
2.    
Fraudulent Misrepresentation
3.    
Negligent Misrepresentation
4.    
Fraud in the Offer or Sale of Securities
5.    
Fraud in Connection with the Purchase or Sale of Securities
6.    
Damages for Sale of Securities by Means of Communications
Containing False Statements and Omissions (Violations of Section 25401 and
25501 of California Corporations Code) 
7.    
Unjust Enrichment 
8.    
Recission
9.    
Reformation
10.  Unfair Business Practices
 
On
November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration arguing:
·       Plaintiff
moves for an order reconsidering the Court’s November 20, 2023 order denying
Plaintiff’s request for default judgment. 
·      
The
Court denied that the Plaintiff’s default judgment submitted on October 24,
2023 was denied for the following reasons; failure to complete a CIV-100 form
for the requesting of default judgment (which has since been completed), and,
more specifically, a “lack of allegation of damages”
·      
The
Court justified its ruling that the Court “may not enter judgment in an amount
exceeding the amount demanded in the Complaint (CCP 585(b)).” And that “Here,
the Complaint fails to give notice of the amount of damages that the Plaintiff
seeks to recover. If Defendant against fails to respond after being served with
the amended complaint, Plaintiff can request that Defendant’s default be
entered on the Amended Complaint and then seek a default judgment in an amount
equal to or less than that stated in the Amended Complaint.”
·      
However,
California Code of Civil Procedure § 425.11 states that in the event a
Plaintiff does not make a specific claim for damages in their complaint that
the Plaintiff is to submit a statement of damages separately from the complaint
on the Defendant.
·      
A
motion for reconsideration pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a) does
not necessarily require new facts or new law but may instead be based on legal
error even if the statute does not directly define this.
·      
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(d) reads as follows: “The court may, upon motion
of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its
judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party,
set aside any void judgment or order.”
 
Defendant did not file an opposition. Plaintiff did not file a
reply.
 
On January 8, 2024, Defendant Carbonel
filed a Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default, arguing:
·      
Defendant
brings this Motion less than two (2) years after the filing, Petitioner
requests that the Court grant the motion, pursuant to C.C.P. § 473.5 (a)
·      
The
Court also has discretion to set aside the default on equitable grounds.
Defendant asserts her actions constituted excusable mistake. Defendant filed an
answer to Plaintiff’s complaint with the incorrect name. Once Defendant
discovered what had happened, they sought retaining counsel in efforts to set
aside the entry of default. Defendant is a Peruvian native, thus has limited
English language proficiency. At the time she filed her answer, she could not
afford an attorney.
 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. Defendant did not file a
reply.
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
A.     Plaintiff’s
Motion for Reconsideration
 
a.     Review by a
Different Judge
 
As an initial matter, the Court addresses whether
a judge who did not make the initial ruling can consider this motion.
 
Generally, a motion for reconsideration must be
made to the same judge.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a); Marriage of
Oliverez (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248.)  “However, there are
narrow exceptions to this general rule.”  (Marriage of Oliverez, supra,
238 Cal.App.4th at 1248.)  “‘[W]here the judge who made the initial
ruling is unavailable to reconsider the motion, a different judge may entertain
the reconsideration motion.’”  (Id. (quoting Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232) (alteration in
original).)  “Another exception is when the facts have changed or when the
judge has considered further evidence and law.”  (Id.) 
“Additionally, a second judge may reverse a prior ruling of another judge if
the record shows that it was based on inadvertence, mistake, or fraud.”  (Id.
at 1248-49.)  “Mere disagreement . . . with the prior trial judge’s
ruling, however, is not enough to overturn that ruling.”  (Id. at
1249.)   
 
Here, Plaintiff’s motion moves for
reconsideration of the December 13, 2022 order made in this Department,
Department 26, by Judge Elaine Lu. However, Judge Lu is unavailable to hear the
instant Motion due to her temporary reassignment to another Department.
Therefore, the Court finds that the assigned judge to Department 26, Judge Rolf
Treu, may consider this motion. 
 
b.     Legal Standard
for Motion for Reconsideration
 
Code Civ. Proc., section 1008 states: 
a.              
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or
to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order.¿The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.¿ 
… 
c.               
If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order. 
 
A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a
motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts,
circumstances or law.”¿(Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1499.) Motions for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where
a party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not previously considered,
and some valid reason for not offering it earlier.¿(Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
An
appellate decision published during an action’s pendency may be a change of law
under section 1008, subdivision (c), and requires a trial court to reconsider
its earlier ruling if the decision materially changed the law. (Valdez v.
Himmelfarb (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1276.) A change in the law is
always an appropriate basis, up until final judgment is entered, for changing
an interim order. (State of California v. Superior Court (Flynn) (2016)
4 Cal.App.5th 94, 101.) 
 
A trial court may exercise its inherent jurisdiction to
reconsider an interim ruling.¿(Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1094, 1096-1097.)¿ The trial court is specifically authorized to exercise such
inherent jurisdiction to reconsider orders compelling arbitration.¿(Malek v.
Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 59–60.) 
 
c.      Merits of
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
reconsidering the Court’s November 20, 2023 order denying Plaintiff’s request
for default judgment. 
 
This Court’s November
20, 2023 denied Plaintiff’s default judgment submitted on October 24, 2023 for
the following reasons: (1) Plaintiff did not file and complete a CIV-100 form;
(2) the Complaint lacks allegations of damages; (3) title to real property is
an improper action for default judgment; (4) failure in part to state a claim
regarding securities fraud; and (5) Plaintiff fails to provide any basis for
the calculation of the sought prejudgment interest. (Court’s 11/20/23 Minute
Order.) The Court ordered Plaintiff to “file and serve an amended complaint that gives notice of the
amount of damages that Plaintiff seeks to recover. If Defendant again fails to
respond upon being served with the amended complaint, Plaintiff can request
that Defendant’s default be entered on the Amended Complaint, then seek a
default judgment in an amount equal to or less than that stated in the Amended
Complaint.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
argues he should not be required to file an amended complaint and that
Plaintiff should instead be allowed to submit a statement of damages separately
from the complaint pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure § 425.11. Plaintiff asserts that the Court should reconsider
its motion based on legal error. In support, Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(d), which states “The court may, upon motion of the
injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or
orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may,
on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.”
 
However,
the Court does not find that Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d) is
applicable here. 473(d) pertains to clerical errors, whereas here, Plaintiff
asserts the Court made a legal error. Further, Plaintiff does not cite to any
authority supporting his contention that the Court’s order directing Plaintiff
to file an amended complaint is not proper. While California Code of Civil
Procedure § 425.11 allows the submission of a separate statement of damages,
the Court stated in its Order that Plaintiff first needs to set forth in a
complaint the amount of damages that Plaintiff seeks to recover so that the
Court does not enter judgment in an amount exceeding the amount demanded in the
Complaint. (CCP 585(b).) Thus, Plaintiff has not shown clerical or legal error
such that the Court’s Order should be reconsidered. Moreover, the Court notes
that Plaintiff has
not presented facts or evidence that he could not have previously discovered
and produced at the hearing that could affect the Court’s prior ruling. (See CCP §
1008(a); see also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338,
1342.)  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
 
B.     Defendant’s
Motion to Set Aside Default
 
a.     Legal
Standard
“The court may set aside a void default judgment at
any time under section 473, subdivision (d).” (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 742, 749.) “In addition, the court has inherent equitable power
to set aside a default judgment at any time for extrinsic fraud or mistake.” (Ibid.)
“The court may grant relief under its inherent equity power if, because of the
fraud of his opponent, the aggrieved party was prevented from presenting his
claim or defense to the court.” (Id. at p. 750, citations omitted.)
“Fraud is intrinsic and not a valid ground for setting aside a judgment when
the party has been given notice of the action and has had an opportunity to
present his case and to protect himself from any mistake or fraud of his
adversary, but has unreasonably neglected to do so.” (Ibid.) A party
seeking equitable relief on the grounds of extrinsic fraud or mistake must show
the following three elements: (1) a meritorious defense; (2) a satisfactory
excuse for not presenting the defense in the first place; and (3) diligence in
seeking to set aside the default judgment once discovered. (Ibid.)
Extrinsic mistake “is not so much the fraud or other misconduct of one of the
parties as it is the excusable neglect of the defaulting party to appear and
present his claim or defense. If that neglect results in an unjust judgment,
without a fair adversary hearing, the basis for equitable relief on the ground
of extrinsic mistake is present.” (Mechling v. Asbestos Defendants (2018)
29 Cal.App.5th 1241, 1246.) “When a default judgment has been obtained,
equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.” (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)  
“When evaluating a motion to set aside a default
judgment on equitable grounds, the court must weigh the reasonableness of the
conduct of the moving party in light of the extent of the prejudice to the
responding party.” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 139,
internal quotations omitted.) Where there is lack of prejudice to the opposing
party, such factor weighs in favor of setting aside default and default
judgment. (Gray v. Lawlor (1907) 151 Cal. 352, 357.)  
“When service of a summons has not resulted in actual
notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may file
a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave
to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) “The notice of
motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against
him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice
that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473.5, subd. (a).) “A defendant seeking to set aside a default or default
judgment under section 473.5 must show, by affidavit, that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” (Shapell Socal Rental
Properties, LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.)  
 “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that . . . service was proper.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441.) “[A] registered process
server’s declaration establishes a presumption affecting the burden of
producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” (American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.) “[A]
registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a presumption
that the facts stated in the declaration are true.” (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)  
“It is well settled that appellate courts have always
been and are favorably disposed toward such action upon the part of the trial
courts as will permit, rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal
controversies upon their merits.” (Benjamin v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1948) 31
Cal.2d 523, 525.) “[T]he law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits, [and] any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief from default.” (Shapell Socal Rental Properties,
LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc., supra, 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.)
“An order denying relief is therefore scrutinized more carefully than an order
granting relief and permitting trial on the merits.” (Id. at p. 213.)
“[T]he provisions of section 473 . . . are to be liberally construed and sound
policy favors the determination of actions on their merits.” (Id. at p.
212, citation and internal quotations omitted.)  
b.     Merits of
Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside
 
Defendant
moves to set aside default pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 473.5(a) and 473(b).
 
However, the Court does not find Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5(a)
applies here. In Defendant’s motion, she does not argue that that she did not
have actual notice of the action. “A defendant seeking to set aside a default or default
judgment under section 473.5 must show, by affidavit, that his or her lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect.” (Shapell Socal Rental Properties, LLC v.
Chico’s FAS, Inc. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.) Here, Defendant did not
attach a declaration attesting to her lack of notice or argue in her motion
that she was not aware of the action. Instead, Defendant asserts that she
attempted to file an Answer, but she inadvertently filed it under an incorrect
name. Thus, the Court does not find that relief is warranted under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473.5(a). 
 
Next, Defendant
moves to set aside default on the grounds that mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) has resulted in a default
being entered, and further brings this motion under the Court’s equitable
powers to set aside the default due to the occurrence of extrinsic fraud or
mistake.
 
However,
Defendant’s motion to set aside default is not in proper form.  The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b), emphasis added.)   
 
Here,
Defendant has not attached a copy of her Answer to the Complaint, or any other
responsive pleading to be filed. Therefore, the Court does not discuss the
arguments set forth in Defendant’s motion because the Court cannot grant
Defendant’s motion on this ground.
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to set aside default. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. 
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion
to set aside default. 