 Case Number:  24STCV12588    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  26 07/31/24
Dept. 26
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
JERRY JAMGOTCHIAN v. THE STRONACH
GROUP, et al. (24STCV12588)
 
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party:  Joseph J. Ybarra (Halpern May
Ybarra Gelberg)
Counsel for Plaintiff/opposing
party: Darren M. Salvin, Esq. (Salvin Law Firm, APC)
 
MOTION TO RECLASSIFY UNLIMITED CIVIL CASE
TO LIMITED CIVIL CASE (filed 06/26/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The motion to reclassify is GRANTED. 
 
I.         
BACKGROUND
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff Jerry Jamgotchian (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants The Stronach Group (“TSG”); Los Angeles Turf Club,
Inc. (“LATC”); and Daniel K. Landers (“Landers”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) conversion, (2) declaratory relief, and (3)
accounting. 
 
On June 26, 2024, Defendants filed a joint answer to the
complaint.
 
Also, on June 26, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to
Reclassify Unlimited Civil Case to Limited Civil Case, arguing that: 
 
·      
Reclassification is appropriate here because the sole damages
sought by Plaintiff are the recovery of a $162.00 “per start fee” that
Defendants allegedly charged Plaintiff to race one of his horses at Santa Anita
Park on October 28, 2022. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
 
·      
Because Plaintiff is suing for declaratory relief and accounting,
in addition to monetary relief, reclassification is not appropriate.
·      
Declaratory relief may not be granted by any limited jurisdiction
court and therefore this action cannot be reclassified. 
 
On reply, Defendants argue that:
 
·      
Plaintiff admits that his damages are $162.00 in total.
·      
Plaintiff’s decision to also bring claims for declaratory relief
and accounting changes nothing. 
 
 
 
II.         
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion to Reclassify
 
“The defendant . .  . may file a
motion for reclassification within the time allowed for that party to respond
to the initial pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a).) “The court,
on its own motion, may reclassify a case at any time.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
403.040, subd. (a).) “A motion for reclassification does not extend the moving
party’s time to amend . . . or otherwise respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040,
subd. (a).)  “The court shall grant the motion and enter an order for
reclassification, regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the case has
been classified in an incorrect jurisdictional classification.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a).) 
 
“[A] civil case in which the damages claimed are less than $25,000 or
less is a limited civil case.” (AP-Colton LLC v. Ohaeri (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 500, 505.) “In a limited civil action, the judgment cannot exceed
$25,000.” (Ibid.) “For reclassification of a case from a limited civil
case to an unlimited civil case, a fee shall be charged as provided in Section
70619 of the Government Code. This reclassification fee shall be in addition to
any other fee due for that appearance or filing in a limited civil case.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 403.060, subd. (a).) “The fee for reclassification of a case from
a limited civil case to an unlimited civil case under Section 403.060 of the
Code of Civil Procedure is one hundred forty dollars ($140).” (Gov. Code §
70619.) “If a plaintiff . . . files an amended complaint . . . that changes the
jurisdictional classification from limited to unlimited, the party at the time
of filing the pleading shall pay the reclassification fee . . ., and the clerk
shall promptly reclassify the case.” (AP-Colton, supra, 240
Cal.App.4th 500, 505.) An action may be reclassified where the maximum amount
in controversy exceeds that of a limited civil jurisdiction case. (Ibid.)  “If
a case is reclassified as a limited civil case, no reclassification fee is
required.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (c)(2).) 
 
“[A] matter may be reclassified as a limited civil action when (i) the
absence of jurisdiction is apparent before trial from the complaint, petition,
or related documents, or (ii) during the course of pretrial litigation,
it becomes clear that the matter will necessarily result in a verdict below the
superior court’s jurisdictional amount.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court
(2005)129 Cal.App.4th 266, 276, internal quotations omitted, emphasis in
original.) “[T]he test [is] . . . whether lack of jurisdiction is clear . . .
[or] virtually unattainable.” (Id. at p. 277, citation omitted, internal
quotations omitted.) “This standard involves an evaluation of the amount fairly
in controversy, not an adjudication of the merits of the claim, and . . .
requires a high level of certainty that [the] damage award will not
exceed $25,000.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) “The [trial] court may
believe it highly unlikely that plaintiff will recover the amount demanded, but
this is not enough to defeat jurisdiction, unless it appears to a legal
certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount [of the] demand[].” (Ibid.)
“[T]he superior court must deny the motion to reclassify the case as limited
(and thus keep the matter in the unlimited civil court) unless it
appears to a legal certainty that the plaintiff’s damages will necessarily be
less than $25,000.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.)   
 
Effective January 1, 2024, a limited civil action is an action where the
amount in controversy does not exceed $35,000. (Code Civ. Proc., § 85, subd.
(a).) “A civil action or proceeding other than a limited civil case may be
referred to as an unlimited civil case.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 88.)
 
 
B.     Pertinent
Allegations of the Complaint 
 
The Court finds it necessary to set
forth the pertinent allegations of the complaint. Plaintiff alleges the
following: Plaintiff owns thoroughbred racehorses that race within the State of
California and other states and he is an “Owner” of racehorses pursuant to the
California Horse Racing Board (“CHRB”) Official Rules and Regulations as well
as California’s Horse Racing Law. (Complaint, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff owned, among
other horses, the thoroughbred racehorse named “Exactly Wendy” who raced at the
Santa Anita Racetrack on October 28, 2022 in the 7th race. (Complaint, ¶ 3.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Owners,
including Plaintiff, hire licensed trainers who, in turn, employ and are
obligated to provide insurance for the jockeys to race their horses.
(Complaint, ¶ 13.) Before a jockey can race a horse in the State of California,
the jockey’s employer, the trainer, is required to purchase and maintain, and
show to the satisfaction of the CHRB and the Stewards of racetracks within the
State of California, acceptable workers compensation insurance for the
trainer’s jockey. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) On October 28, 2022, Plaintiff’s trainer
was Mr. Doulas O’Neill and the jockey who rode “Exactly Wendy” on October 28,
2022 was employed by Mr. O’Neill who, in turn, purchased jockey workers’
compensation insurance. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) Without lawful authority under any
CHRB rule or California statute, Defendants have imposed a per start fee on
each Owner, including Plaintiff, for workers’ compensation insurance for the
jockey, irrespective of the trainers’ already-existing obligation under
applicable law and contract. (Complaint, ¶ 18.)
 
 Plaintiff alleges that he was charged a per
start fee for the trainer’s jockey workers’ compensation insurance by
Defendants on October 28, 2022, in the amount of $162.00. (Complaint, ¶ 20.) To
the extent that Defendants charged and continue to charge Owners, including
Plaintiff, a per start fee for the trainer’s workers’ compensation insurance
for the jockey whom the trainer employes, such fee is wrongful, conversionary,
and without statutory or contractual basis. (Complaint, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff
submitted an “Opt-Out” form in order to not be charged the per start fee for
workers’ compensation insurance by rescinded such form on May 1, 2024.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 26-27.) Plaintiff owned, among other horses, the thoroughbred
racehorse named “Yarborough” who raced at the Santa Anita Racetrack on May 4,
2024 in the 11th race and Defendants did not charge Plaintiff a per start fee
for jockey workers’ compensation insurance for this May 4, 2024 race even
though he had rescinded his opt-out form. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges
that he was not charged the per start fee for such race because Defendants lack
the statutory authority to charge this per start fee and because Plaintiff was
not provided any insurance policy for the jockey which was to be paid by the
owners’, including Plaintiff’s, per start fee. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) 
 
 
C.     Appropriateness
of Reclassification
 
An action for declaratory relief may proceed as a limited civil case
where it is either: (1) by way of a cross-complaint as to a right of indemnity
with respect to the relief demanded in the complaint or a cross-complaint in an
action or proceeding that is otherwise a limited civil case; or (2) brought to
conduct a trial after a nonbinding fee arbitration between an attorney and
client, if the amount in controversy is less than $35,000.00. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 86, subd. (a)(7)(A)-(B).) Declaratory relief cannot be granted in a limited
civil case unless it is authorized by CCP § 86. (Code Civ. Proc., § 580, subd.
(a)(4).) 
 
Here, pursuant to the second cause of action for declaratory relief,
Plaintiff alleges that an actual controversy has arisen between the parties
regarding whether Defendants have the legal authority to require a per start
fee to be taken from Owners. (Complaint, ¶ 35.) Thus, if this action were to be
reclassified as a limited civil action, the declaratory relief claim would not
be able to proceed under CCP § 86(a)(7). 
 
The third cause of action seeks an accounting of all the income and
expenses as it relates to the collection, payment, and processing of any and
all start fees charged to Owners. (Complaint, ¶ 41.) 
 
The superior
court “may not transfer an action stating a sufficient claim for declaratory relief.”
(Cardellini v. Casey (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 389, 396.) While this action
does involve a claim for declaratory relief, such fact does not warrant this
action staying classified as an unlimited civil action because “it appears the
rights of the complaining party have crystalized into a cause of action for
past wrongs . . . [such] that a money judgment will fully resolve the dispute,
and that no continuing relationship exists to justify a declaration of future
rights.” (Cardellini v. Casey (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 389, 396.) Here,
Plaintiff only alleges that he was charged a per start fee in October 2022 and
has not been charged such fee since that time. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) There is no
indication that a “continuing relationship exists to justify a declaration of
future rights.” (Cardellini, supra, 181 Cal.App.3d 389, 396.) Accordingly,
the existence of a declaratory relief claim (and the accounting claim) does not
absolve this Court of the ability to reclassify this action as a limited civil
case. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff concedes in the opposition that this action seeks money damages in
the amount of $162.00. (Opp’n at p. 3:3.) Thus, based on the allegations of the
complaint, there is an absence of jurisdiction. Plaintiff is not seeking money
damages pursuant to the second or third causes of action. (Complaint, ¶¶
34-42.) Based on the allegations of the complaint, the lack of jurisdiction is
clear.  
 
III.         
DISPOSITION

 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to
Reclassify and reclassifies this action from an unlimited civil jurisdiction
case to a limited civil jurisdiction case.   