 Case Number:  21STCV13995    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  68 DEFENDANT SUPERIOR CENTER CONCEPTS, INC
(SUED AND SERVED AS DOE 1)’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS
NOTICE:                   

 PROPER
BACKGROUND:     On April 13, 2021, Plaintiff Rosa Lucio (“Plaintiff”) filed suit
against Defendants Superior Grocers, Inc. and Does 1-100, inclusive
(collectively “Defendants”).  The
Complaint alleges that on or about June 21, 2020, Plaintiff slipped and fell on
Defendants’ premise, causing her injury. 
On
September 1, 2023, Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. (sued and served as
Doe 1) (“Super Center”) filed a Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff’s
Further Responses to Requests for Admissions (Set One).  On September 5, 2023, Super Cener filed two
Motions for Orders Compelling Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set Two) and Requests for Production (Set Three). 
TIMELINE:









4/13/21


Complaint
  filed




5/28/21


Answer filed
  by Super Center




5/28/21


Cross-Complaint
  filed by Super Center




9/1/23


Super Center
  filed a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for
  Admissions, Set One 




9/5/23


Super Center
  filed two Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for
  Production, Set Three and Special Interrogatories, Set Two




9/29/23


Plaintiff
  filed a Global Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Compel Form
  Interrogatories, Request for Production, and Special Interrogatories 




10/05/23


Super Center
  filed a Reply and Supplemental Declaration




10/12/23


Hearing on
  Super Center’s Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to RFAs, SROGs,
  and RFP



 
MOVING PARTY argues:  Super Center argues that on April 7, 2023, it
served via electronic mail requests for production of documents, special
interrogatories, form interrogatories, and requests for admissions upon
Plaintiff.  The original deadline for
responses was on May 9, 2023, and extended by agreement to May 24, 2023.  
On
May 24, 2023, Plaintiff served responses via electronic mail which consisted of
objections only.  Plaintiff served
substantive responses on June 12, 2023. 
After reviewing Plaintiff’s responses, Super Center found them to be
incomplete and evasive.  Super Center
sent Plaintiff a meet and confer letter on July 19, 2023, specifically
addressing each deficient response and why a further response was
necessary.  Super Center also requested
supplemental responses or an agreement to meet and confer on or before July 26,
2023.  
On
July 25, 2023, Super Center sent Plaintiff’s counsel another meet and confer
via email advising there had been no responses and asking for an immediate
response, otherwise law and motion would be necessary.  Plaintiff’s attorney contacted Super Center
shortly after the email and agreed to supplement responses on August 14, 2023
and extending Super Center’s motion to compel deadline for September 1,
2023.  
On
August 14, 2023, Plaintiff emailed Super Center’s counsel requesting a
four-week extension to the deadline to serve supplemental responses.  Super Center agreed to extend the deadline
upon Plaintiff’s agreement to continue Super Center’s deadline to file motions
to compel, amongst several other discovery requests.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s managing attorney,
Jonathan M. Kashani, declined the agreement and advised he would “stand firm on
his client’s code complaint responses”, reneging the prior agreement in total. 
On
August 18, 2023, Super Center emailed Mr. Kashani agreeing to participate in an
Informal Discovery Conference on mutual discovery issues between both parties,
including Plaintiff’s responses to this instant discovery issue.  Mr. Kashani would not agree.  Although Plaintiff’s counsel ultimately
agreed to a meet and confer, it was not productive. 
Super
Center argues it is entitled to complete and substantive responses to prepare
its defense and its interest in the action. 
Super Center further argues Plaintiff’s failure to provide responses to
Super Center’s requests constitutes a misuse of the discovery process.  Super Center requests this Court to compel
Plaintiff’s complete responses to Super Center’s requests and monetary
sanctions in the total amount of $3,300.
RESPONDING PARTY argues: Plaintiff
argues that Super Center failed to schedule an IDC before filing the instant
motions, as required by this Court.  Plaintiff
also argues Super Center’s Motions fail because they do not contain a Separate Statement
of the disputed discovery requests nor the reason why further responses should
be ordered.  
IN REPLY, MOVING PARTY argues:  In response, Super Center argues that it
served Separate Statements with the Court electronically and to Plaintiff via
email.  Super Center also argues that it
called this Department’s clerk twice to set IDCs but was told this case had too
many IDCs, and as such, none would be necessary to file the Motions to
Compel.  Additionally, Super Center
argues Plaintiff’s counsel refused to participate in an IDC after being asked
to do so but now uses the lack of an IDC as a defense.   Finally, Plaintiff’s failure to provide any
evidence, legal authority, or argument refuting Super Center’s argument set
forth in the Motions to Compel is a concession and requires the Motions be
granted ordering further responses to discovery to be served. 
ANALYSIS 
Legal Standard 
Any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)¿
Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.¿ (Ibid.)¿ Courts have given the words
“subject matter” a broad definition that is not limited to only admissible
evidence.¿ (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th
698, 711.)¿ Accordingly, information is relevant for discovery purposes if it
might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement.¿ (Id. at pgs. 711–712.)¿ Admissibility is not
the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might
reasonably lead to admissible evidence.¿ (Gonzalez v. Super. Ct. (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)¿ These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery and “fishing expeditions” are permissible in some cases.¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
Special
Interrogatories  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
Production of Documents 
If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response to the demand.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(b); see Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-404.) However, when responses
are served, the proper motion is a motion to compel further responses, which is
governed by Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2031.310.  
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel further responses must set forth
specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the
demand and must be accompanied by a declaration showing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).) Absent a claim of privilege or attorney work
product, the moving party meets its burden of showing good cause by a
fact-specific showing of relevance. (See Kirkland v. Super. Ct. (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) If the moving party has shown good cause for the
requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the
objections. (Ibid.)
 
Requests for Admissions 
On receipt of a response to requests for admission the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that an objection to an RFA is without merit or too
general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(a)(2).) 
Procedural Issues 
Timeliness 
Motions to compel further responses to interrogatories,
request for production of documents, and requests for admission must be brought
within 45 days of service of the verified response, supplemental verified
response, or on a date to which the propounding and responding parties have
agreed to in writing; otherwise, the propounding party waives the right to
compel further responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310,
subd. (c); 2033.290, subd. (c).)
Super
Center filed the Motion to Compel Further Responses to the Request for
Admission on September 1, 2023.  Super
Center filed the Motion to Compel Further Responses to the Request for
Production and Special Interrogatories on September 5, 2023.  Plaintiff served Super Center with
substantive response on June 12, 2023. 
After Plaintiff and Super Center agreed to an extension for discovery
responses now due on August 14, 2023, they also agreed to extend the Motion to
Compel deadline for September 1, 2023. 
(Motions, Exh. F.)   On August 14,
2023, Plaintiff asked Super Center for another extension to serve
responses.  Super Center agreed to extend
the deadline on the condition that any potential deadlines for Motions to
Comply be extended from September 1, 2023 to September 15, 2023.  Plaintiff declined the agreement, agreed to
participate in an IDC, and granted a one-week extension for Defendant to file
its Motion to Compel following an IDC with the Court.  Since Plaintiff granted Super Center only a
one-week extension for filing Motions to Compel, Super Center’s deadline was
September 8, 2023.  Thus, the Motions
were timely filed. 
Meet and Confer 
The moving party must demonstrate a “reasonable and good
faith attempt” at an informal resolution of each issue presented. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).) Here, Super Center’s counsel sent two meet
and confer letters to Plaintiff’s counsel via electronic mail on July 19, 2023
and July 25, 2023. (Motions, Exhs E, F.) 
Therefore, the moving party has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. 
Separate Statement 
Motions to compel further responses must always be
accompanied by a separate statement containing the requests and the responses,
verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response is warranted. (California
Rule of Court, rule 3.1345(a).) The separate statement must also be complete in
itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by reference. (California
Rule of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) 
Here, Plaintiff included separate statements for the motion
to compel further responses to special interrogatories, motion to compel
further responses to request for production of documents, and motion to compel
further responses to requests for admissions.
 
Merits 
Special Interrogatories
Request Numbers 38-40, 48 ask
about Plaintiff’s reduction of medical bills and the whereabouts of Plaintiff’s
daughter, Stephanie Lucio, who worked at Global Lien Doctors, LLC, and assisted
in coordinating the lien administrator’s treatment of her mother and the
associated billing.  Super Center argues
this information is relevant because Plaintiff’s counsel’s policies for
referring clients to preferred providers who initially produce high-cost
invoices on a lien basis and later accepts a smaller percentage for final
payment are essential for determining the damages actual incurred by
Plaintiff.   Based on this, the Court
finds that the information sought is likely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  The Court grants
the motion to compel further responses. 
Request Number 49 asks
Plaintiff to identify persons who have knowledge about her agreement with GRS
funding.  Super Center argues that by
answering “unknown staff at GRS Funding”, Plaintiff is refusing to provide
highly relevant information because Plaintiff is concealing the identities of
these lien providers’ employees whom the Plaintiff’s attorneys deal with a on a
day-to-day basis and whom counsel has developed profitable relationships
with.  (Separate Statement, pg. 8.)  Based on this, the Court finds that the
information sought is reasonably likely to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  The Court grants the motion to
compel further responses. 
Request Number 61 asks what
Healthcare Providers were referred through Global Lien Doctors, LLC.  Super Center argues Plaintiff has had
numerous interactions with personnel employed by Global Lien Doctors, LLC,
regarding lien agreements, reductions in actual medical costs, payments,
negotiations, in addition to Plaintiff’s daughter working at this
facility.  (Separate Statement, pg.
9.)  Further, Super Center argues this
information is relevant as a matter of law because it is essential in
determining the damages actually incurred by Plaintiff.  (Ibid.)  Based on this, the Court finds that the
information sought is reasonably likely to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  The Court grans the motion to
compel further responses.  
Requests for
Production of Documents 
Requests Nos. 27-46 seek writings
relating to the treatment, monies owed, and financial agreements relating to
the incident.  Super Center cannot
distinguish Plaintiff’s responses to their requests and is further unable to
list the deficiencies with the documents under each specified request
number.  (Separate Statement, pg.
2.)  Super Center states various issues
regarding Plaintiff’s responses.  First,
Plaintiff’s emails in response to Super Center’s RPD cannot be read in their
entirety and appear to be photocopies of the actual emails themselves.  (Ibid.)  Second, Plaintiff produced 3,345 pages of
documents in response to Super Center’s RPD without complying with the
requirement to identify the specific request numbers to which the documents
respond.  (Separate Statement, pg. 3.)  Additionally, Super Center argues Plaintiff’s
responses do not comply with CCP § 2031.280(a), requiring documents to be
identified with the specific request number to which the documents
respond.  (Separate Statement, pg.
4.)  Finally, Super Center argues these
responses are essential for determining the damages actually incurred by
Plaintiff.  (Ibid.)  The Court finds the requests to be reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Thus, it grants the request. 
Requests Nos. 30, 38, 39
ask Plaintiff to produce all writings relating to the reductions in medical
billings including correspondence.  Super
Center argues that although Plaintiff claims she does not have it in her
possession, Plaintiff’s medical liens and costs have been reduced and even
admits that at least one lien medical provider, Global Lien Doctors, LLC, has
disclosed reductions in medical billings.  (Separate Statement, pg. 45.)  The Court finds the requests to be reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Thus, the Court grants the request.  
Requests for
Admissions 
Request number 1 asks
Plaintiff to admit she has not produced all communications between her and her
Lien-Physicians to date.  Super Center
argues Plaintiff’s counsel contradicts their response because it answers with a
denial but then admits they have not provided these documents in response to
Form Interrogatory, Set Two, 17.1. 
(Separate Statement, pg. 2.)  Like
the special interrogatories about this subject, Plaintiff should respond. 
Request number 2 asks
Plaintiff to admit she has not produced all Lien agreements between her and her
Lien Physicians to date.  Like the
special interrogatories about this subject, Plaintiff should respond.
Request number 5 asking
Plaintiff to admit she had injuries to her legs prior to the incident.  Plaintiff should respond. 
Request number 39 asks
Plaintiff to admit that the healthcare providers she sought since the incident
have not charged her for any medical treatment. 
Like the special interrogatories about this subject, Plaintiff should
respond. 
Sanctions: 
Super Center requests
sanctions in the total amount of $3,300 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel.  
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(d).)
Here, the Court
finds sanctions in the amount of $3,300 reasonable given Super Center’s meet
and confer efforts, preparation and drafting of motions to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and Requests for Production, Set One.
CONCLUSION:

Based
on the foregoing:
(1)   the
court GRANTS Super Center’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to their Request
for Admissions, Set One, Request for Production of Documents, Set Three, and
Special Interrogatories, Set Two.
(2)   The
Court grants monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in connection with the
motions in the amount of $3,300.  Payment
due to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days.