 Case Number:  22STCV26299    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  68 DEFENDANTS NIKE, INC. AND NIKE USA, INC.’s  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
BACKGROUND – 
Plaintiff Jessica Bradford (“Plaintiff”) is the
mother of Jayden Bradford (“Decedent”), who was shot and killed while at a Nike
shoe release event at the store of Defendant Shoe Palace (Shoe Palace). Jayden
was an employee of Shoe Palace; however, Plaintiff’s SAC alleges that he was off
duty at the time he was shot. (SAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff has alleged 6 causes of
action against Defendants Nike and Nike USA (collectively Nike) and Shoe
Palace. The causes of action which Plaintiff has alleged are:
1.     
Wrongful Death (Negligence)
2.     
Wrongful Death (Premises Liability)
3.     
Wrongful Death (Negligence)
4.     
Wrongful Death (Battery)
5.     
Wrongful Death (Negligence)
6.      Survival
Action
Plaintiff
alleges two causes of action – three and six – against Nike, and Nike filed the
instant Demurrer on August 28, 2023, demurring to the same two. Plaintiff filed
her opposition (“Opposition Papers”) on September 29, 2023. Nike filed a reply
(“Reply Papers”) on September 29, 2023.    
Moving Party Arguments – 
Nike files their Demurrer arguing that that
shooting occurred on property owned by Shoe Palace, not Nike. Additionally,
Plaintiff failed to establish either a special relationship or misfeasance by
Nike sufficient to trigger a legal duty to protect Decedent.
Responding Party Arguments – 
Plaintiff argues that they have alleged
sufficient facts to show negligent undertaking on the part of Nike.
Upon Reply, Moving Party Arguments – 
Plaintiff’s argument of negligent undertaking
fails because there is no duty to protect a victim from the actions of third
parties without establishing malfeasance or a special relationship.
TENTATIVE RULING: RE NIKE’S DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, THE COURT RULES AS FOLLOWS: SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
Preliminary Matters –
Request for Judicial Notice
Nike requests this Court take judicial notice
of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint filed on March 17, 2023. It is not
necessary to request that the Court take judicial notice of the operative
complaint for purposes of addressing a demurrer.  Hence, while the Court obviously looks to the
allegations of that complaint, it is not granting the request.
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff objects to the Declaration of
Stephanie Jones Nojima submitted concurrently with Defendant’s Demurrer. The
objection is sustained.  The Court shall
not consider extraneous evidence in deciding this demurrer.
Discussion –
Legal Standard for Demurrer
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations
in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
Analysis
Plaintiff uses their SAC to allege negligent
undertaking against Nike for the death of Decedent. However, the wrongful death
action against Nike is based on negligence, and the threshold element of
negligence is duty. Plaintiffs have failed to establish any such duty,
therefore for the reasons below, the Demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.
(1)   Third Cause of Action –
Negligence (Wrongful Death) 
“The elements of a cause of
action for wrongful death are a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death.”
(Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff
must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2)
“breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
Plaintiff argues in their SAC that they have
alleged all of the elements of a negligent undertaking theory. Plaintiff cites Paz
v. State of California (2000) 22 Cal.4th 550, 559 (Paz) as
instructive. Paz lays out the elements necessary for negligent
undertaking, but the Court was also careful to note that the theory of
negligent undertaking “subsumes the well-known elements of any negligence
action, viz., duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Paz,
supra at 559.) Here, there must be some duty by Nike owed to Decedent,
there is no way around it.  
a)      Duty
A legal duty may flow
through one of two avenues, from affirmative acts “where the defendant, through
his or her own action (misfeasance) has made the plaintiff's position worse and
has created a foreseeable risk of harm from the third person. In such cases the
question of duty is governed by the standards of ordinary care.” (Pamela L.
v. Farmer (1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 206, 209.) However, the second avenue,
nonfeasance, generally does not give rise to a legal duty. (Id.) Even
within nonfeasance though, a recognized exception to the general rule is the
existence of a special relationship. “A defendant may owe an affirmative duty
to protect another from the conduct of third parties if he or she has a
‘special relationship’ with the other person.” (Delgado v. Trax Bar &
Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224.)
Plaintiff does not
allege the second avenue – a special relationship between Nike and Decedent in
the SAC – but does allege the first avenue, misfeasance. The SAC alleges that
Nike is aware of the phenomenon of “sneaker violence”, acts of violence
committed in order to obtain highly valuable sneakers, and has done nothing to
curb the issue. (SAC, ¶ 19 and 25.) Plaintiff further alleges that on the day
of Decedent’s death, Nike should have been aware of the widely reported history
of violent conduct by patrons at sneaker release raffles, and that holding the
raffle would create an unreasonable risk of harm to Decedent. (SAC, ¶ 46.)
Nike counters in their
Demurrer arguing that (1) Nike does not own the property where the shooting
occurred and (2) that Nike was not involved in Shoe Palace’s operations nor the
raffle in question. (Demurrer, 1:3-19.) Plaintiff is silent as to these points
in their Opposition Papers. Moreover, Nike relies on Jane Doe No. 1 v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 410, 427 (“Uber
Technologies, Inc.”): “The ‘crux of the difference between’ misfeasance and
nonfeasance for purposes of assessing a duty to protect is whether the
third-party conduct “ ‘was a necessary component’ of the [defendant's] conduct
at issue.” The Uber Technologies, Inc. Court gave the following example:
“…it is entirely foreseeable that teenagers at an all-night rave party might
use drugs and/or stay up all night, then attempt to drive home. Because doing
so is not a “necessary component” of attending such a party, however, Sakiyama
concluded the party did not create a risk thereof, and the party venue had no
duty to protect against it.” (Ibid.) Here too, the Court can analogize.
Assuming arguendo, that Nike did require Shoe Palace to organize a raffle, the
murder of Decedent was not a necessary component of the raffle, nor was the
accompanying violence. Therefore, Nike had not duty to protect against it.
(2)   Sixth
Cause of Action – Survival Action
The other cause of action being demurred to is the survival
action. The Court notes here that “The survival statutes do not create a cause
of action. Rather, “[t]hey merely prevent the abatement of the cause of action
of the injured person, and provide for its enforcement by or against the
personal representative of the deceased.” (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1264.) As such, the cause of action is
derivative of the wrongful death action, which fell to demurrer. Therefore, the
Demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained. 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect
can be cured by amendment”]. This is the second amended complaint submitted by
Plaintiff. The Court does not see any reasonable possibility of successful amendment;
therefore, the Court will deny leave to amend.
Conclusion –
Accordingly, Nike’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety, and leave to amend is DENIED. 