 Case Number:  21STCV45648    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  68 DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
BACKGROUND – 
On December 14, 2021, Monique Watson (“Plaintiff”) filed her
initial Complaint against her former employer. Plaintiff followed with the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on July 29, 2022 that contains the
following thirteen causes of action.  

Violation of Health and
     Safety Code §1278.5
Violation of Labor Code §§
     98.6 and1102.5 – Whistleblowing
Violation of Labor Code §
     6310
Violation of Labor Code §§
     96(k) and232.5
Intentional Infliction of
     Emotional Distress
Violation of Labor Code §
     201 and202
Violation of Labor Code §
     203
Meal and Rest period
     violations
Violation of Labor Code §
     226 (a)
Violation of Labor Code §
     1174, and Civil Penalties;
Violation of Labor code
     and Cal/OSHA requirements for failure to furnish a place of employment
     that is safe and healthful for the employees, and Civil Penalties;
PAGA, Recovery of Civil
     Penalties pursuant to Labor Code Section 2699, et seq. for wage and hourly
     violations, Labor Code sections 98.6 and 1102.5;
Wrongful Discharge in
     Violation of Public Policy
Plaintiff was terminated by her former employer, Community
Care and Rehab, Sun Mar Rehabilitation Services, LLC, Community Care Rehab
Center, LLC, Sun-Mar Health Care Inc., Sun Mar Nursing Centers, Sun Mar
Management Services, and Lala Tevez (collectively, “Defendants”) on December
15, 2020. (FAC, ¶ 63.)
Plaintiff began her employment with Defendants in April
2020. (FAC, ¶ 20.) Shortly after her onboarding she began to see a significant
increase in patients with SARS-CoV-2, the contagious virus that causes
COVID-19. (Id.) During her tenure with Defendants, Plaintiff alleges
that she was often asked to work late, work double shifts, or work on her days
off. (FAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff further alleges that she was required to work
overtime on a regular basis and perform job duties while off the clock, without
proper compensation. (FAC, ¶ 28.) After several complaints to and discussions
with her superiors, Plaintiff was demoted (FAC, ¶ 42) and then terminated (FAC,
¶ 63.)
TIMELINE:









12/14/21


Complaint
  filed




7/29/22


First Amended
  Complaint filed




1/13/23


All
  Defendants served with FAC by 1/13/23




9/13/23


Motion to
  Compel Arbitration filed




9/29/23


Opposition to
  Motion to Compel Arbitration filed




10/5/23


Reply to
  Plaintiff’s Opposition filed



Moving Party
Arguments – 
Defendants argue in their Motion that (1) the arbitration
agreement covers Plaintiff’s claims, (2) Plaintiff expressly agreed to
arbitrate disputes arising from her employment, (3) the overall agreement lacks
unconscionability and therefore is enforceable. 
Responding Party
Arguments – 
Plaintiff argues
that (1) the time frame for the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration has
passed, (2) no valid arbitration agreement exists because the agreement does
not identify Plaintiff’s employer properly, (3) even if an agreement exists,
there is procedural and substantive unconscionability.  
Upon Reply, Moving
Party Arguments – 
Upon reply, the
moving party refutes all arguments presented by responding party. Defendants
argue (1) the time frame to file has not passed, (2) the employer is identified
sufficiently on the arbitration agreement and (3) there is no procedural nor
substantive unconscionability.
TENTATIVE RULING: RE DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION, THE COURT RULES AS FOLLOWS: GRANTED 
Discussion –
Legal Standard
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law,
arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This
is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the
court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to
other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the
paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated
verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)
The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the
moving party for a controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration
agreement affirmatively establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
Analysis
Plaintiff opposes the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
(“Motion”) on three main grounds: (1)
the time frame for the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration has passed, (2) no
valid arbitration agreement exists because the agreement does not identify
Plaintiff’s employer properly, (3) even if an agreement exits, there is
procedural and substantive unconscionability. For the reasons below, the Court
disagrees, and will grant the instant Motion. 
 
                Defendants
did not waive right to arbitration
Plaintiff’s first argument is that the time frame for
Defendants’ to file the instant Motion is long since passed. Plaintiff contends
that all six company-named defendants were served by January 12, 2023.
(Opposition Papers, 8:5.) An initial Answer was filed on March 13, 2023, then
the instant Motion followed 4 and a half months later. Plaintiff argues this is
an unreasonable delay, citing to several cases including Guess?, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 553, 556, [less than four months
between filing lawsuit and motion to compel arbitration]; Kaneko Ford Design
v. Citipark, Inc. (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1228-1229 [five and one-half
months between filing lawsuit and motion to compel arbitration]; and Lewis
v. Fletcher Jones Motor Cars, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 436, 443 [“a
five-month delay from the commencement of the action to the filing of the
motion to compel arbitration is unreasonable”].
However, with regard to waiving arbitration, Kaneko states
that timing is not the only factor courts must consider. “The issue of waiver
is not resolved by reference to a single test. Rather, a finding on that issue
is based on various factors, including (1) whether the party seeking
arbitration previously had taken steps inconsistent with an intent to
arbitrate; (2) whether that party had unreasonably delayed in seeking
arbitration; and (3) whether that party had acted in “bad faith” or with
“wilful misconduct”. In addition, a finding of prejudice is necessary.” (Kaneko,
supra at 1228.)
Defendants argue that the only reason the timing of the
Motion fell in September of this year, is because of issues with service of the
operative complaint. Although the company-defendants were served by January 12,
2023, one defendant, Lala Teves (“Teves”), was not served until May 26, 2023.
(Reply, 2:16.) Defendants further argue that the May 26, 2023 service was not
effectuated properly. Defendants notified Plaintiff’s counsel that they would
be accepting service on behalf of Teves on August 23, 2023, since Teves had
never received a proper service. (Reply Papers, 3:1.) An answer for Teves was
filed the next day, and the instant Motion less than one month after that.
Moreover, Plaintiff fails to point to any other factor, outside of timing, that
constitutes a waiver of arbitration. The Court sees none. Therefore, Defendants
did not waiver their right to arbitrate.
                The
employer is identified in the arbitration agreement
Plaintiffs second argument is that because the employer was
not identified properly in the arbitration agreement (“Agreement”) that the
Agreement is therefore invalid. Plaintiff additionally argues that the
identification of the employer’s name was improper on Plaintiff’s wage
statements. However, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate how this invalidates the
Agreement. Plaintiff cites to two cases: Noori v. Countrywide Payroll &
HR Solutions, Inc. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 957 and Mays v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2019) 354 F.Supp.3d 1136. Neither mentions that the
improper naming of the employer on a wage statement invalidates an arbitrations
agreement.
                There
is no Procedural Unconscionability
Finally, Plaintiff argues that there is both procedural and
substantive unconscionability.  
“Procedural unconscionability exists when the stronger party
drafts the contract and presents it to the weaker party on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis.” (Carlson v. Home Team Pest Defense, Inc.
(2015), 239 Cal.App.4th 619, 631.)
Plaintiff contends here that she was deceived and could not
know what she was signing because the Company never correctly completed or
signed the Agreement identifying who Plaintiff’s employer was. Moreover,
Plaintiff argues that the rules of the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”)
were not attached as per paragraph 4 of the Agreement.
However, the Court is unpersuaded. Plaintiff calls the
signing of the Agreement deceptive, but points to no details supporting a
fraudulent onboarding process. Moreover, the employer on the Agreement is
identified on the signature line as “CCRC” or Community Care & Rehab. One
other note is that the Agreement states that Plaintiff acknowledged that she
had “been given the opportunity to discuss this Agreement with my private legal
counsel and have availed myself of that opportunity to the extent I wish to do
so.” (Declaration of Kerri Lutfey, Exh. 1, ¶ 14.)  This points more towards allowing Plaintiff
the opportunity to understand the Agreement rather than deceiving Plaintiff to
sign it.
Lastly, the failure to provide the rules of AAA is a factor
that may support procedural unconscionability, but not determinative. The Court
in Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
676 even commented that the rules were easily accessible on the Internet. (Id.
at 691.) Therefore, the Court concludes that there is no procedural
unconscionability.
There is no Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff contends substantive unconscionability by arguing
that (a) the Agreement failed to properly identify the employer, (b) the
Agreement states: “the Arbitrator shall have the authority to require either
party to pay the fee for the other party's representation during the
arbitration…” and (c) the Agreement is unconscionable because Watson’s PAGA
claims cannot be waived. The Court will take each contention in turn.
The first contention has been dealt with and dismissed
above. The employer is identified on the Agreement and Plaintiff knew who she
would be working for. 
Second, Plaintiff quotes from paragraph 9 of the Agreement
to argue substantive unconscionability but does not quote the paragraph in its
entirety to allow for proper context. The entirety of the paragraph regarding
arbitration fees and costs provides as follows: 
The cost of the Arbitrator and other incidental costs of
arbitration shall be borne by the Company. The parties shall each bear their
own costs for legal representation in any arbitration proceeding, provided,
however, that the Arbitrator shall have the authority to require either party
to pay the fee for the other party's representation during the arbitration, as
is otherwise permitted under federal or state law, as part of any remedy that
may be ordered. (Declaration of Kerri Lutfey, Exh. 1, ¶ 9.)
The full paragraph allows the Court to see that although the
arbitrator may have some authority to require either party to pay the other’s
fees, it is authority only permitted under federal or state law. Additionally,
it appears that the arbitrator itself and other incidental costs are borne by
the employer. This paragraph does not present substantive unconscionability.
Finally, Plaintiff contends that the Agreement forces her
PAGA claims to be waived, citing Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles,
LLC (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 348 (“Iskanian”). However, the Supreme Court
of the United States abrogated Iskanian in the case of Viking River
Cruises v. Moriana (2022) 142 S. Ct. 1906. In Iskanian, an employee
brought a putative class action against their employer for wage and hour
violations. The Supreme Court of California held that (1) a waiver of the
employee’s right to representative action under PAGA violated public policy;
and (2) individual and non-individual claims are not divisible. According to Viking
River Cruises, the Iskanian opinion correctly decided a PAGA waiver
is unenforceable as to non-individual claims, without any FAA preemption, but
that individual and non-individual claims are divisible.  Arbitration can be compelled as to the
individual claims, and the remaining claims of representative actions should be
dismissed, due to lack of standing upon plaintiffs’ removal from the action and
into arbitration. (Viking River Cruises, supra at1924-25). Here, Viking
River mandates that the claims must be divisible. Plaintiff’s individual
claims must be arbitrated. If Plaintiff’s representative claims show Plaintiff
still has standing, then those claims may move forward, however, that inquiry
is not at issue with the instant Motion. 
  
Conclusion –
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.

The action is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration.