 Case Number:  22STCV16190    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16190




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Dismiss    




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Trenna Jones



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves
for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Trenna Jones (“Plaintiff”) for
failure to comply with the Court’s May 28, 2024 discovery order compelling her
deposition. 
 
The hearing for this motion was originally scheduled for August 16,
2024 and originally unopposed. At the hearing, and pursuant to the request of
Plaintiff, the motion was continued to September 20, 2024. Opposition papers
were due September 9, 2024 and reply papers were due September 16, 2024. (Min.
Order, 8/16/24.)
 
The Court also ordered Plaintiff to file a Notice of Change of Address
immediately. (Min. Order, 8/16/24.) The Court notes that no such Notice appears
in the docket. Additionally, while it appears Plaintiff is now represented by
counsel Elina Shakhbazyan, no Substitution of Attorney has been filed.  
 
Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390,
quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997)
16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the plaintiff
for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various
discovery statutes].)  
 
“If that party or party-affiliated deponent then fails to obey an
order compelling attendance, testimony, and production, the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against that party deponent or against the party with whom
the deponent is affiliated. In lieu of, or in addition to, this sanction, the
court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against that deponent or against the party with whom that party
deponent is affiliated, and in favor of any party who, in person or by
attorney, attended in the expectation that the deponent's testimony would be
taken pursuant to that order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(h).) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court grants Defendant’s objections, except for objections to
Exhibits A through C and to paragraphs 1 and 17. Defendant has not established
that strict compliance with the hearsay rules is required here.
 
DISCUSSION
 
On
May 22, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s former counsel’s motion to be
relieved as counsel. 
 
On
May 28, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition. The deposition was first noticed in September 2023. (Min. Order,
5/28/24.) The Court found that Plaintiff had failed to appear at two noticed
depositions and ordered Plaintiff to appear for a deposition within 20 days. (Id.)
Plaintiff was also ordered to pay $1,372.60 in monetary sanctions. 
 
On
June 6, 2024, Defendant mailed notice of the order to Plaintiff’s address
listed on the Order to Relieved Counsel. On that same day, Defendant also
mailed a Fourth Amended Notice of Taking Plaintiff’s deposition, set for June
19, 2024. (Macksoud Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff did not appear for the deposition. (Id.
¶ 8.) 
 
An
opposition has been filed on Plaintiff’s behalf, despite there being no
Substitution of Attorney filed in this case. Despite the assertions that
Plaintiff did not appear at previous depositions because former counsel did not
inform her of the correct information and failed to send notices to her proper
address, none of this is supported by a declaration from Plaintiff. In light of
the evidentiary rulings above, Plaintiff provides no admissible evidence
demonstrating a reason for the failure to abide by the Court’s discovery order.

 
In
reply, Defendant argues that the Court should ignore the opposition since it
was filed by counsel who has not filed a Substitution of Attorney. However, “the
act of making a court appearance on behalf of a party creates a presumption
that the attorney is authorized to do so, and hence is strongly presumptive of
an attorney-client relationship.” (Streit v. Covington & Crowe
(2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 441, 446.) Defendant provides no authority that the Court
has no discretion to consider papers submitted by a purported counsel,
especially given the presumption of the attorney-client relationship. 
 
Still,
Defendant contends in reply that Plaintiff admitted over the telephone prior to
the August 16, 2024 hearing that she received documents that Defendant sent via
express mail, but had not opened them because they were not sent to the correct
address. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant also asserts it emailed Plaintiff the documents
on August 1, 2024 to the same address that Plaintiff provided at the August 16,
2024 hearing. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
Nevertheless,
given the question of whether Plaintiff accessed the notices that Defendant
sent (since she claimed at the prior hearing that she did not and they were not
supposed to be sent to that address), and the fact new counsel has appeared on
Plaintiff’s behalf purporting to fully prosecute this case (Shakhbazyan Decl. ¶
17), the Court cannot conclude that Plaintiff’s actions were willful to warrant
terminating sanctions at this time. The facts indicated by Defendant suggest
that lesser sanctions may be able to induce compliance.[1] 
 
To
Court also denies Defendant’s request for a continuance since it was asserted
for the first time in reply. The parties are ordered to meet and confer and
attempt to reach a stipulation.
 
The
Court further notes that it instructed Plaintiff to file any motion to seal as
necessary to protect her address. (Min. Order, 8/16/24.) No motion has been
filed. In light of Exhibit A, Plaintiff must file a motion and proposed order
promptly.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED. Purported
counsel for Plaintiff, Elina Shakhbazyan, shall complete and file a
Substitution of Attorney immediately. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


