 Case Number:  22STCV17326    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17326




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Submit Tardy Supplemental Expert Designation




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Long Beach Unified School
  District, Shayon Stamper, Virginia Divers, Jason Heesch, and Saul Hernandez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Kysean Ferreira¿¿ 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The parties in this case exchanged expert witness designations on
March 20, 2024. At the time, trial was scheduled for May 9, 2024. (Min. Order, 7/12/23.) 
 
On April 24, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff Kysean Ferreira’s (“Plaintiff”) ex
parte application to continue trial and reopen discovery. The Court observed
that no motion to reopen discovery was filed. However, in light of the
then-pending motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court continued trial to
May 23, 2024. All discovery remained closed and the pre-trial motion cut off
remained in effect. (Min. Order, 4/24/24.)  
 
On May 3, 2024, the Court granted in part, Plaintiff’s ex
parte application to continue trial and reopen discovery, by continuing trial
from May 23, 2024 to August 23, 2024. The order specified that “all discovery
and pre-trial motion cut off dates shall be associated with the previous trial
date unless otherwise stipulated by the parties or otherwise ordered by the
Court.” (Min. Order, 5/3/24.)  
 
On July 30, 2024, the Court granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to
reopen discovery for the limited purpose of conducting the depositions of Jason
Heesch and Renny Chu. (Min. Order, 7/30/24.) On September 18, 2024, the Court
denied Defendant’s motion for reconsideration.
 
At the final status conference, given the motions on calendar for
September, the Court, on its own, continued trial to October 14, 2024. All
discovery remained closed and the pre-trial motion cut off remained in effect
unless stipulated by all counsels or by further orders of the Court. (Min.
Order, 8/8/24.)
 
Defendants
Long Beach Unified School District, Shayon Stamper, Virginia Divers, Jason
Heesch, and Saul Hernandez (“Defendants”) now move for leave to
submit a tardy supplemental expert witness designation of a special education
expert, Mary Schillinger, to respond to opinions by Plaintiff’s special
education expert, Marian Stephens. The motion is brought under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2034.250, 2034.710, and 2034.720. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendants reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
At the appropriate date pursuant to the expert witness demand, the
parties must simultaneously exchange information which contains a list of the
name and address of any person whose expert opinion is expected to be offered
at trial, and, among other things, a “brief narrative statement of the general
substance of the testimony that the expert is expected to give.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.260, subds. (b), (c).) “[T]he very purpose of the expert witness
discovery statute is to give fair notice of what an expert will say at trial.
This allows the parties to assess whether to take the expert's deposition, to
fully explore the relevant subject area at any such deposition, and to select
an expert who can respond with a competing opinion on that subject area.” (Bonds
v. Roy (1999) 20 Cal.4th 140, 146-47.) 
 
Upon reviewing an opposing party’s expert witness list, a party may
supplement their expert list within 20 days after the exchange. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.280.) Supplementing expert witnesses under section 2034.280 is
done as a matter of right, unlike augmenting an expert witness list or
making a tardy submission, which require leave of court. (Du-All Safety, LLC
v. Superior Court (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 485, 497-98.) 
 
On motion of any party who has engaged in a timely exchange
of expert witness information, the court may grant leave to (1) augment that
party’s expert witness list and declaration by adding the name and address of
any expert witness whom that party has subsequently retained; and/or (2) amend
that party’s expert witness declaration with respect to the general substance
of the testimony that an expert previously designated is expected to give.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (a).)¿ This motion shall be made a
sufficient time in advance to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the
motion relates to be taken before the discovery cut-off, unless exceptional
circumstances exist.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (b).)¿ The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.610, subd. (c).) ¿  
 
The court may grant leave to augment or amend an expert
witness list only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:¿¿  
 
 (a) The court has taken into account the extent to
which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.¿  
 
(b) The court has determined that any party opposing the
motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on
the merits.¿  
 
(c) The court has determined either of the
following:¿  
 
(1) The moving party would not in the exercise of
reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have
decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert
witness.¿  
¿ 
(2) The moving party failed to determine to call that
expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that
expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:¿  
¿ 
(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after
deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or additional
testimony.¿  
¿ 
(B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed
expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in
Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.¿  
¿  
(d) Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving
party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3
(commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just,
including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to
designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from
those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period
of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party
opposing the motion.¿  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.620.)¿ 
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Amy A. Evenstad, Defendants’ counsel, states the
following: “Defendant met and conferred over the issues in this motion but
Plaintiff refused to agree to deem the designation timely. Defendant has
offered to make Mary Schillinger available for deposition.” (Evenstad Decl. ¶
8.)  
 
DISCUSSION

 
This case stems from an alleged physical altercation with Plaintiff and
a school security guard. Plaintiff had an Individualized Education Plan (“IEP”).
Defendants contend that Plaintiff stipulated that his mental condition would
not be at issue, only his physical injuries. Despite this, Defendants contend
that on July 29, 2024, Plaintiff provided a report from its special education
expert Marian Stephens, who opined that Plaintiff’s IEP was violated in the
2019-2020 school year during the incident, and in the months after the
incident. (Evenstad Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) Defendants argue this claim was not alleged
previously. Defendants have filed a motion in limine to exclude this opinion,
in case this motion is denied. 
 
As an initial matter, the Notice of Motion seeks leave to submit a
tardy supplemental expert under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2034.250,
2034.710, and 2034.720. First, section 2034.250 pertains to protective orders
sought after a party is served with a demand to exchange expert witnesses.
While Defendants argue this allows the Court to make an order that the date of
exchange of supplemental experts may be at a later date, they provide no
authority in support. (Motion, 4.) Additionally, Defendants point to sections
2034.710 and 2034.720 which apply when a party has failed to submit expert
witnesses on the date specified in the demand. These sections do not appear to
apply here because Defendants admit that the parties exchanged expert witnesses
on March 20, 2024. (Motion, 4; Evenstad Decl. ¶ 5.) However, Defendants also
contend that Plaintiff did not produce any expert reports. (Evenstad Decl. ¶
5.) 
 
The Court notes that sections 2034.610 and 2034.620 are appropriate
here, since Defendants seek to augment their expert witness list after the
parties already designated witnesses. However, even if brought under those
sections, the motion would be denied for the reasons below. 
 
Defendants
do not attach the materials that Plaintiff produced on the date of the exchange
and fail to show Plaintiff’s brief narrative statement of the general substance
of the testimony that Marian Stephens was expected to give. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.260, subd. (c)(2).) In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that its expert
declaration for Marian Stephens contained the following statement: “Dr.
Stephens will provide opinions as to . . . the failure of defendants to comply
with their duties under California and Federal law, the failure to comply with
plaintiff’s Individualized Education Plan, the failure to comply with special
education standards and education standards . . . .” (Scott Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.)

 
As
a result, given that Plaintiff designated a special education expert witness
and produced the declaration above, Defendants fail to show that they would not, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, have
decided to also retain a special education witness. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.620, subd. (c)(1).) Similarly, given the declaration statement of
Stephen’s anticipated testimony, there are insufficient facts that the failure
to designate a special education witness was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.620,
subd. (c)(2).)[1] Therefore, Plaintiff’s expert designation list and
supporting declaration undermines Defendants’ argument that the July 29, 2024
opinion report was a “surprise”. In light of the above, Defendants also fail to
show whether failure to supplement an expert was excusable neglect. 
 
In reply, Defendants do not set forth facts that it did not
have possession of Plaintiff’s expert witness designation and the statement of Stephen’s
testimony on the date of the exchange.
 
Therefore, the motion to submit the tardy supplemental
expert designation is denied.[2] 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Submit Tardy Supplemental Expert
Designation is DENIED. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


