 Case Number:  24SMCV03353    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  O Case
Name:                Goksel v. B’Chir,
et al.



Case No.:        24SMCV03353          


Complaint Filed:                   7/11/24




Hearing Date:            1/23/25


Discovery C/O:                      n/a




Calendar No.:            10


Discover Motion C/O:           n/a




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             n/a



SUBJECT:                SPECIAL MOTION
TO STRIKE (CCP 425.16)
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendant OLFA B’CHIR
RESP.
PARTY:        Plaintiff SUNA GOKSEL
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant’s special  motion to strike (anti-SLAPP) is granted in
part and denied in part. The motion is granted as to the First Amended Complaint
(FAC) ¶¶ 32, 50, 84(e), and 124. The motion is otherwise denied. Each party
having prevailed in part, the Court finds there is no prevailing party pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(c)(1).
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests judicial notice of four (4) records from
the restraining order proceeding against Plaintiff. The Court grants the
request as to the existence of the records and the fact of the proceedings, but
not as to the truth of any of the records’ contents.
 
REASONING
 
Plaintiff Suna Goksel (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Olfa B’Chir, U.S. Bank Trust Company, N.A., U.S. Bank
National Association, and All Persons Known & Unknown, etc. on July 11,
2024. She filed her operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) on September 18,
2024. The FAC asserts causes of action for:
 
            1. Quiet
Title,
            2.
Partition,
            3. Breach
of Oral Contract – Lease,
            4. Breach
of Oral Contract – Property,
            5. Breach
of Implied Contract – Lease,
            6. Breach
of Implied Contract – Property,
            7. Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
            8.
Intentional Misrepresentation,
            9.
Negligent Misrepresentation,
            10.
Promissory Fraud,
            11. Unjust
Enrichment,
            12.
Constructive Trust,
            13. Fraud
(Concealment),
            14.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and
            15.
Declaratory Relief.
 
As alleged in the operative FAC: from August 2020 to June
2023, the parties lived together in an apartment on Santa Fe Avenue in Los
Angeles. (Id., ¶ 11.) They had agreed to share certain housing expenses,
and Defendant failed to satisfy her obligations under that agreement. (Id.,
11.) 
 
Around February 2023, the parties decided to purchase a
property on Sweetzer Avenue in West Hollywood (“the Property”). (Id., ¶
15.) Plaintiff paid cash toward the purchase and assumed other obligations
related to the Property, but she was not placed on the title at the time of
purchase; Defendant agreed to add her to the title afterward. (Id., ¶¶
23, 29.)
 
In the ensuing months, the parties’ relationship soured.
Ultimately, each party claimed the other had violently attacked each. (Id.,
¶¶ 31 [Plaintiff’s allegations; ¶¶ 50, 84 [Defendant’s allegations].) Defendant
barred Plaintiff from the Property. (Id., ¶¶ 31, 33.) Defendant also
petitioned for and obtained a Domestic Violence Restraining Order against
Plaintiff. (Id., ¶¶ 32-33.) Defendant has not added Plaintiff to
the title and has not reimbursed any expenses Plaintiff paid toward the
purchase price or other costs. (Id., ¶¶ 64, 74, 82, 99, 106.)
 
On October 17, 2024, defendant Olfa B’Chir (“Defendant”)
specially moved to strike Plaintiff’s complaint in its entirety pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, California’s “anti-SLAPP” statute.
Although Defendant’s Notice of Motion is directed to the entire FAC, its
memorandum and the relief requested are directed only to FAC paragraphs 29, 32,
33, 50, 84(c), 84(e), 113, and 124 and to Plaintiff’s seventh and fourteenth
causes of action.
 
1. The motion is timely and properly directed to the FAC.
 
Plaintiff argues partly that Defendant’s motion must be
denied because it is untimely based on the deadline to file the motion challenging
the original complaint.
 
An anti-SLAPP motion must be filed within sixty (60) days of
the pleading it attacks. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(f).) The statute permits a
defendant to attack an amended pleading, as well as an initial pleading, within
sixty days of its filing. (Lam v. Ngo (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 832,
840-841; Yu v. Signet (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 298, 314.) But the
permission to challenge an amended pleading via anti-SLAPP motion is not
unlimited. It extends only to protected claims not made in earlier pleadings. (Newport
Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th
637, 643-644.) “A rule automatically reopening a case to anti-SLAPP proceedings
upon the filing of any amendment permits defendants to forgo
an early motion, perhaps in recognition of its likely failure, and yet seize
upon an amended pleading to file the same meritless motion later in the action,
thereby securing the ‘free time-out’ condemned in [controlling case law].” (Hewlett-Packard
Co. v. Oracle Corp. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1192, fn. 11.)
 
Plaintiff filed her FAC on September 18, 2024, and Defendant
filed her motion twenty-nine days later. If the motion is properly directed to
the FAC, then it is well within the deadline. But Plaintiff filed her initial
complaint on July 11, 2024, which placed Defendant’s deadline to file her
anti-SLAPP as to that complaint on September 9, 2024. If the claims subject to
Defendant’s motion were made in the initial complaint, then Defendant’s motion
was thirty-eight days late.
 
Defendant’s motion is timel because the claims and
allegations Defendant attacks in her motion appear for the first time in the
FAC.  Plaintiff’s FAC refers specifically
to a restraining order proceeding, multiple times, and includes those
allegations as a basis for relief under two of her causes of action.
 
In contrast, Plaintiff referred generally to “false claims
in court proceedings” in her initial complaint in a single paragraph. (Compl.,
¶ 32.) Those claims, referred to apparently for context, were not referred to
under the heading of any particular cause of action. 
 
The claims Defendant attacks in her motion did not appear in
her initial complaint in a manner inviting anti-SLAPP relief. Not until the FAC
did Plaintiff those allegations to several paragraphs and include them specifically
among her bases for relief.
 
Because Defendant’s time to file runs from the FAC, not the
initial complaint, Defendant’s motion is timely.
 
2. The Notice of Motion is vague
but sufficiently clarified in Defendant’s memorandum.
 
Defendant seeks broader relief in her Notice of Motion than
she argues for in her memorandum of points and authorities. Defendant’s
memorandum focuses on seven (7) paragraphs of the FAC related to Defendant’s
petition for a restraining order against Plaintiff. Defendant argues she is
entitled to relief because “Plaintiff cannot possibly prevail on her
allegations [in those paragraphs]” only. (MPA, 9:4-5.)  But Defendant did not seek to strike only
these paragraphs. Her Notice requests that the Court strike the entire FAC.
The parties appear to concede – and the Court agrees – that the bulk of the FAC
alleges activity that falls outside the ambit of section 425.16.
 
An omission in a notice may be overlooked if the supporting
papers make clear the grounds for the relief sought. (Carrasco v. Craft
(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 796, 807-808; 366–386 Geary St., L.P. v. Superior
Court (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1186, 1200.) The purpose of these requirements
is to cause the moving party to “sufficiently define the issues for the
information and attention of the adverse party and the court.” (Hernandez v.
National Dairy Products (1954) 126 Cal.App.2d 490, 493.) Here, Defendant
could, and did, respond fully to Plaintiff’s argument despite the erroneous
Notice.
 
3. “Step One” – Application
of the Anti-SLAPP Statute
 
In determining whether to grant or deny an anti-SLAPP
motion, the court engages in a two-step process. (Park v. Board of Trustees
of California State University¿(2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1061.) First, the
court must decide whether the moving party has met the threshold burden of
showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the moving party’s
constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances.
(See ibid.) This burden may be met by showing the act underlying the
plaintiff’s cause of action fall within one of the four categories of conduct
set forth in Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16, subdivision (e):¿ 
  
(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, [¶]¿ 
  
(2) any written or oral statement or writing made in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, [¶]¿ 
  
(3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a
place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest, or  [¶]¿ 
   
(4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.¿ 
 
a. As to Plaintiff’s entire
pleading, or to any whole cause of action, Defendant has not shown Plaintiff’s
claims arise from protected activity.
 
None of Plaintiff’s causes of action, and certainly not her
whole pleading, falls in its entirety within the ambit of section 425.16. 
 
“[A] defendant in an ordinary private dispute cannot take
advantage of the anti-SLAPP statute simply because the complaint
contains some references to speech or petitioning activity by the defendant.” (Martinez
v. Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 188.) “In
determining ‘whether the challenged claims arise from acts in furtherance of
the defendants' right of free speech or right of petition under one of the
categories set forth in section 425.16, subdivision (e). [Citation.] .... “[the
court] examine[s] the principal thrust or gravamen of a plaintiff's cause of
action to determine whether the anti-SLAPP statute applies.” ’ [Citation.] The ‘gravamen
is defined by the acts on which liability is based, not some
philosophical thrust or legal essence of the cause of action.’ ” (Optional
Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 95, 111, cited with approval in Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1012.)
 
Plaintiff’s suit and each of her causes of action, taken
whole, arise from a private real property and contract dispute. The “gravamen” of
her claims does not relate to free speech or other protected conduct.
 
As to Plaintiff’s whole claims or whole complaint, Defendant
has not carried her burden and the motion is denied.
 
b. As to Defendant’s
restraining order petition specifically, Defendant’s conduct is protected.
 
Based on the moving papers, however, Defendant appears to
construe her motion more narrowly. She directs her arguments only to individual
allegations and claims for relief that she argues arise from her filing of a
domestic violence restraining order.
 
This is the proper use of a special motion to strike. “[T]he
Legislature's choice of the term ‘motion to strike’ reflects the understanding
that an anti-SLAPP motion, like a conventional motion to strike, may be used to
attack parts of a count as pleaded.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 393.) “Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is not confined to
evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the plaintiff,
arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should analyze
each claim for relief — each act or set of acts supplying a basis for relief,
of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action — to
determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they
give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion. (Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010 [281
Cal.Rptr.3d 678, 688.)
 
Thus, although the Court denies Defendant’s motion as to the
whole complaint or whole causes of action, it also considers the motion as
directed solely to those “claims” arising from Defendant’s restraining order
petition against Plaintiff.
 
Defendant’s filing of a court action is protected activity
under subdivision subdivisions (e)(1) and (2) of section 425.16:
 
“As used in this section, ‘act in furtherance of a person's right of
petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue’ includes:
 
1) any written or oral statement or
writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law[; and] 
 
(2) any written or oral statement
or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law . . . .”
 
No further discussion is required; the filing of a court
petition is protected activity. The Court proceeds to the second step, as to
the restraining order allegations only.
 
            3. “Step
Two” – Probability of Prevailing
 
a. Plaintiff
has not shown a probability of prevailing as to claims arising from the
restraining order petition.
 
If the defendant meets its initial burden to show its
activity is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute, then the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to prove he has a legally sufficient claim and to prove with
admissible evidence a probability of prevailing on the claim. (De Havilland
v. FX Networks, LLC¿(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 855.) 
 
At the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, the trial
court considers the pleadings and evidence of both parties. (Ibid.) The
plaintiff’s proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence. (Sweetwater
Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940.)
The court “does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff has not shown a probability that she can defeat
the absolute litigation privilege as to her allegations arising from the
restraining order proceeding. California law does not permit liability for
filing lawsuits, except in the case of malicious prosecution. (See Civ. Code, §
47.) “ ‘[U]nderlying the [litigation privilege] is the vital public policy of
affording free access to the courts and the crucial functions of the finder of
fact’ [Citation] … . The fears of chilled speech and hindered justice are too
much a part of our case law to be disregarded as unproved.” (McClatchy
Newspapers, Inc v. Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 961, 971.)
 
Plaintiff’s opposition relies on the Court taking
Defendant’s causes of action as a whole. She does not meaningfully argue that
Defendant can be held liable for the filing of the restraining order petition
by itself. Plaintiff implies at one point that her claims can survive the
privilege because they are contract, rather than tort, claims. (Opp.,
16:16-18.). This is incorrect; the privilege applies to communications in the
course of judicial proceedings, regardless of the label placed on the
complaint. (Thornton v. Rhoden (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 80, 99.) 
 
To the extent Plaintiff’s claims arise from restraining
order proceedings, they are protected by the litigation privilege, and
Plaintiff has made no persuasive argument she can overcome the privilege as to
those particular claims.
 
b. Some, but not all, of the “claims”
Plaintiff has individually identified relate to the restraining order petition.
 
Defendant challenges the following allegations and claims
for relief in Plaintiff’s FAC:
 




¶ 29.


“Shortly
  after the Property was purchased, Defendant B’chir intentionally, knowingly
  and wrongfully refused to recognize Plaintiff’s 50% ownership interest in the
  Property and intentionally refused to add Plaintiff to the title of the
  Property as agreed. Moreover, Defendant B’chir refused to allow Plaintiff
  access to the Property by, inter alia, excluding Plaintiff from the
  entry code system and refusing to provide her with the code.”




¶ 32.


“Upon
  information and belief, thereafter, Defendant B’chir intentionally
  manufactured multiple false claims against Plaintiff in effort to harass,
  annoy and defame Plaintiff, including bringing false claims against Plaintiff
  in court proceedings.”




¶ 33.


“Defendant
  B’chir has knowingly, intentionally and improperly kept Plaintiff from
  entering into, inhabiting or being near the Property, of which Plaintiff owns
  a 50% interest[.]”




¶ 50.


“Prior
  to the filing of this action, Defendant B’chir knowingly, intentionally,
  wrongfully and expressly (1)refused to recognize Plaintiff as a co-tenant;
  (2)refused to place Plaintiff on title to the Property in violation of their
  Agreement; (3)refused to allow Plaintiff access or entry into the
  Property;(4) refused to return Plaintiff’s $650,000, (5) has wrongfully and
  maliciously brought a TRO action against Plaintiff with manufactured
  evidence; has continued to malign and harass Plaintiff. Thus, Plaintiff had
  no recourse but to file this action.”




¶ 84.


“Defendant
  not only breached the Agreement by failing to perform her obligations
  thereunder, but also unfairly interfered with Plaintiffs’ right to receive
  the benefits of the Agreement as set forth in detail above, by, inter alia:  . . . (c) knowingly and
  intentionally refusing to allow Plaintiff entry into or access to the
  Property; [and]
. . . (e) manufacturing
  false claims for the purpose of obtaining a TRO against Plaintiff to further
  obstruct her entry or access to the Property.”




113.


“Defendant B’chir multiple wrongful and intentional acts and omissions,
  including, inter alia, fraud and breach of contract, have improperly
  and unjustly enriched Defendant B’chir to the detriment of Plaintiff in that
  Defendant B’chir intentionally and fraudulently obtained sole legal title to
  the Property; failed and refused to add Plaintiff to title of the Property
  despite Plaintiff providing $650,000 cash toward the property Purchase in
  keeping with the parties’ Agreement; return to pay Plaintiff her $650,000,
  and has refused Plaintiff access or entry into the Property.”




¶ 124.


“Defendant B’chir has intentionally and wrongfully omitted Plaintiff
  from title the Property; has taken Plaintiff’s $650,000 as her own and reaped
  the benefit thereof without compensation to Plaintiff; has refused Plaintiff
  entry into the Property; has wrongfully and maliciously made false statements
  about Plaintiff to obtain a TRO against Plaintiff.”




 
Four portions of these sections expressly refer to court
proceedings:
 




¶ 32.


“ . . . including
  bringing false claims against Plaintiff in court proceedings.”




¶ 50.


“ . . . (5)
  has wrongfully and maliciously brought a TRO action against Plaintiff with
  manufactured evidence; has continued to malign and harass Plaintiff.”




¶ 84.


“ . . . (e) manufacturing
  false claims for the purpose of obtaining a TRO against Plaintiff to further
  obstruct her entry or access to the Property.”




¶ 124.


“ . . . has wrongfully and maliciously made false
  statements about Plaintiff to obtain a TRO against Plaintiff.”




 
The remainder refer to Defendant’s alleged efforts, in
general, to keep Plaintiff from accessing the Property.
 
The claim that Defendant refused Plaintiff access to the
Property rely primarily, if not entirely, on the factual allegations appearing
in paragraph 29:
 
“Shortly after the Property was purchased,
Defendant B’chir intentionally, knowingly and wrongfully refused to recognize
Plaintiff’s 50% ownership interest in the Property and intentionally refused to
add Plaintiff to the title of the Property as agreed. Moreover, Defendant
B’chir refused to allow Plaintiff access to the Property by, inter alia,
excluding Plaintiff from the entry code system and refusing to provide her with
the code.”
 
The purchase of the Property appears to have been complete
as of at least April 1, 2023. (FAC, ¶ 26; see also FAC, Exh. C.) Defendant
filed her petition for a restraining order on July 19, 2023. (MPA, 1:18-19.)
Defendant concedes that Plaintiff’s allegations arise from an incident that
took place, at the latest, on June 1, 2023. (B’Chir Decl., ¶ 12.) But Plaintiff
also alleges a scheme to keep her off the Property that dated back to the
Property’s purchase in April 2023. (FAC, ¶ 26.)
 
Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant attempted to block
access to the Property date to incidents that precede Defendant’s filing of her
restraining order application. They also rely in part on allegations that were
not raised in Defendant’s DVRO. (See B’Chir Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
As a result, Plaintiff’s generally-framed allegations that
Defendant blocked access to the Property do not arise solely from the matters
raised in the DVRO. Nor do matters raised in the DVRO amount to protected
conduct simply because they were raised in a court petition. (See Paul v.
Friedman (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 853, 866 [statute applies to
“statements and writings” themselves, if related to issue under review].) Allegations
that do not refer directly to the court proceedings are not protected conduct
under section 425.16, and they are not subject to a special motion to strike.
 
The motion is granted as to allegations referring
directly to court proceedings, which are subject to section 425.16 and as to
which Defendant has not shown a probability of prevailing. The motion is denied
as to the remainder of the FAC subject to Defendant’s motion.