 Case Number:  23SMCV01639    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Freeman, et al v.
Williams, Case No. 23SMCV01639
Hearing Date December
7, 2023 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Freeman’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint 
 
Freeman and
Williams created Metro Properties, LLC to invest in real estate. Freeman was
the LLC’s majority member; Williams had a minority stake. Pursuant to Metro’s
operating agreement, Williams was responsible for day-to-day operation. Freeman
alleges Williams misappropriated funds and mismanaged properties. Williams’
cross-complaint alleges Freeman reduced his salary, took a salary of his own in
violation of Metro’s operating agreement and interfered in Metro’s business,
causing it to miss investment opportunities and lose profits. Freeman demurs to
Williams’s cross-complaint. 
 
Quantum
Meruit/Breach of Oral Contract 
A quantum meruit
claim cannot proceed when there is an express oral contract covering the same
subject matter. Hedgin Concepts, Inc. v. First All. Morg. Co. (1996) 41
Cal.App.4th 1410, 1419. A plaintiff is permitted at the pleading phase to plead
inconsistent causes of action for breach of contract and quantum meruit in the
alternative. Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1207, 1222-1223. To alternatively plead inconsistent
claims for breach of contract and quasi-contract (e.g. unjust enrichment), the
quasi-contract cause of action must deny the existence or enforceability of the
earlier pleaded contract. Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202
Cal.App.4th 1342, 1389. 
 
Freeman argues the
quantum meruit claim is subject to demurrer because the cross-complaint alleges
a written contract. Although quantum meruit may be pleaded alongside a breach
of a contract covering the same subject matter, the quantum meruit claim must
“deny the existence or enforceability” of the earlier pleaded agreement. Klein,
supra 202 Cal.App.4th at 1389-1390. Williams’ quantum meruit claim does not
do so. SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend as to quantum meruit. 
 
Freeman argues the
breach of oral contract cause of action is inconsistent with the breach of
written contract cause of action, as Williams cannot sue based on two different
contracts covering the same subject matter. Although Williams alleges a written
contract containing a provision regarding compensation, he may plead a separate
oral contract containing a different compensation provision. For pleading
purposes, those allegations must be treated as true. OVERRULED on these grounds
as to the oral contract cause of action.
 
Unjust Enrichment 
Some California
courts have held unjust enrichment is a principle of relief, not an independent
cause of action. E.g. Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1350, 1370. Other courts, including the Supreme Court, treat unjust enrichment
as an independent cause of action. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. v. J.R.
Marketing LLC (2014) 61 Cal.4th 988, 995. Restitution based on unjust
enrichment can be alleged when services were provided under an express contract
that is void or rescinded. Rutherford Holdings, LLC (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221, 231. 
 
Freeman argues the
unjust enrichment claim is is subject to demurrer because it is not a
recognized cause of action. While acknowledging the conflicting precedent, the
court follows J.R. Marketing and treats unjust enrichment as an
independent cause of action. OVERRULED.
 
Uncertainty 
Freeman argues the
claims for breaches of written contract, oral contract, breach of fiduciary
duty and unjust enrichment are uncertain. The court agrees as to the contract
claims. The breach of contract causes of action do not specify the term Freeman
allegedly breached or how he breached it. Williams points to portions of the
“general allegations”, which more set forth the contractual terms and Freeman’s
alleged breach. Despite this clarification, the cross-complaint remains
unclear. Williams must amend so Freeman can determine which background factual
allegations support the breach of contract claims. 
 
The breach of
fiduciary duty cause of action alleges Freeman breached by “engaging in or
refusing to engage in transactions on behalf of Metro that benefitted Freeman
at the expense of Metro and its members[.]” Cross-complaint ¶100. This is
sufficiently specific for pleading purposes. Williams alleged sufficient facts
establishing a breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
The unjust
enrichment claim alleges Freeman “knowingly accepted and retained funds,
payments, and benefits,” that he should not be permitted to keep.
Cross-complaint ¶110. This is enough to survive demurrer. 
 
SUSTAINED with ten
days leave to amend as to the causes of action for breach of oral and written
contract, OVERRULED as to the unjust enrichment and fiduciary duty claims. 
 
Motion to Strike 
Freeman argues
paragraphs 42 and 45 should be struck because they relate to Freeman’s alleged
failure to respond to an offer to buy buildings owned by Plaza Diamond Bar
Partners, LLC. Freeman argues Williams lacks standing to make a claim based on
damage to Plaza Diamond Bar. Similarly, he argues paragraphs 61, 67 and 83
allege conduct that did not damage Williams individually, so cannot support
Williams’s individual claims. These are fact arguments, not properly made at
the pleading stage. Williams alleges the conduct detailed in the challenged
paragraph damaged Metro, violating the fiduciary duty Freeman allegedly owed to
Williams. At the pleading stage, these allegations must be treated as true. DENIED.
 
Freeman argues
some of the actions alleged are protected by the business judgment rule. The
business judgment rule does not apply when there is bad faith or a conflict of
interest. Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
1020, 1045. Williams alleges Freeman acted in bad faith and was motivated by
self-interest. Cross-complaint ¶¶42, 51. These allegations must be treated as
true at the pleading stage. Whether the business judgment rule should apply is
a question of fact, not properly decided at the demurrer phase. DENIED. 
 
Finally, Freeman
moves to strike Williams’ request for punitive damages. The cross-complaint
states Freeman “acted willfully and with the intent to cause injury to Williams
and in conscious disregard of Williams’s rights[.]” Cross-complaint at ¶103.
This is conclusory. The cross-complaint must be amended to specifically
identify conduct justifying punitive damages. GRANTED with ten days leave to
amend. 