 Case Number:  23SMCV00616    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Fellows,
et al. v. Pilgrim Media Group, LLC et al., Case No. 23SMCV00616
Hearing
Date December 7, 2023 
Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Plaintiffs’
decedent Ryan Fellows died while participating a reality tv series about street
racing. Plaintiffs allege defendant producers were grossly negligent, causing decedent’s
accident and death. Defendants move to compel arbitration. Plaintiffs argue the
arbitration clause is unenforceable, some of the plaintiffs never agreed to
arbitrate and defendants waived the right to arbitrate by invoking the
litigation machinery. 
 
California
public policy strongly favors arbitration as an efficient alternative to
litigation. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §1280 et seq., Madden v. Kaiser Found.
Hosps. (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 706. A party waives its right to arbitrate
when it “substantially invokes” the litigation machinery before moving to
arbitrate, resulting in prejudice to the opposing party. Hoover v. American
Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 20 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1204. Filing an answer
does not waive the right to seek arbitration. Christensen v. Dewor
Developments (1983) 33 Cal.3d 778, 782. Responding to discovery,
rather than propounding it, does not constitute invocation of the litigation
machinery. Davis v. Continental Airlines, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
205, 217. Unreasonable delay in moving to compel arbitration can lead to a
waiver of arbitration rights. Spear v. California State Auto Ass’n. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.
 
Decedent
signed a release stating he “hereby freely and voluntarily agrees not to sue
and irrevocably and unconditionally releases, waives and forever discharges
Producer and Network . . . from any and all manner of liabilities . . .
Participant (or its heirs, next of kin, assigns, agents, and/or representatives)
or any third party ever had, now has, or in the future may have against the
Releasees . . . including but not limited to death[.]” McMichael Decl., Exh. A,
¶7. The release contains an arbitration clause stating “[a]ny controversy or
claim relating to this release . . . shall be submitted to final and binding
arbitration…” Id. ¶8.
 
Courts
have held an arbitration clause may be unenforceable if deceptively hidden
within a larger agreement. An arbitration clause that is in fine print, occurs
several paragraphs into a lengthy agreement and lacks boldface, italics or
visual markers may be overly inconspicuous and unenforceable. Domestic Linen
Supply Co. v. LJT Flowers, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 180, 182. 
 
Domestic
Linen is
distinguishable. The release is one page, a total of eight paragraphs. The
signature line is just below the arbitration clause, which ends with
“PARTICIPANT HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS THIS RELEASE AND AGREES TO THE PROVISIONS
CONTAINED HEREIN.” McMichael decl., Exh. A. Decedent was emailed a copy of the
release to review and sign before his race; there is no indication he was
denied time to read the release and determine its significance. McMichael decl.
¶¶4, 14, 19. The arbitration clause is not excessively inconspicuous.
 
A
party seeking to compel arbitration can waive its right to do so by
unreasonable delay and conduct inconsistent with the right to arbitrate. E.g., St.
Agnes Medical Center v. Pacificare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187,
1194. Waiver will not be found unless there is prejudice to the opposing party.
Id. pg. 1203. The mere expense of responding to motions is not the type
of prejudice that will result in waiver; the party opposing arbitration must
show the other side obtained information that could not have been gained in
arbitration, it waited until the eve of trial to seek arbitration or a lengthy
delay resulted in lost evidence. Id. at 1203-1204. Conduct inconsistent
with the right to arbitrate includes propounding discovery requests, failing to
object to discovery requests due to an arbitration agreement and failing to
plead arbitration as an affirmative defense. E.g. Guess?, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 553, 557. 
 
Plaintiffs
served the complaint in April 2023. Defendants filed their motion to compel
arbitration seven months later. Defendants have been aware of the arbitration
agreement, as they drafted it and required plaintiffs’ decedent to sign it.
Hulburt decl. ¶¶2-3. No defendant included arbitration as an affirmative
defense or otherwise referred to arbitration in their answers. See 4/21/2023
and 6/62023 answers.
 
Defendants
substantially invoked the litigation machinery, propounding significant written
discovery (92 requests for production of documents); plaintiffs responded with almost
2,000 pages of documents. At the June 21, 2023 status conference, defense
counsel agreed to a trial date (while not telling the court that they intended
to move to compel arbitration). They deposed plaintiff Elizabeth Fellows and
third party witness Leonard, conducted a vehicle inspection and served multiple
third-party subpoenas. Hulburt decl. ¶¶10-25. In the months since the suit was
filed, defendants never mentioned they planned to compel arbitration. Id. 
 
On
November 8, 2023, four and a half months after trial was set, defendants filed
this motion. They delayed unreasonably. They were aware decedent signed an
arbitration agreement. Their claim they were unaware of Elizabeth Fellows’
release is unavailing, since it was in their possession. Even so, decedent’s release
contains language regarding heirs and successors, sufficient to give defendants
a basis to file this motion.
 
Defendants
argue plaintiffs have not been prejudiced. A court can reasonably infer a
defendant who conducts extensive discovery before moving to compel arbitration
sought to delay arbitration to take advantage of the broader discovery allowed
in litigation. Davis v. Continental Airlines (1997) 59 Cal.App. 4th 205,
212. Defendants here conducted extensive discovery. This indicates they sought
to obtain discovery that would not have been available in arbitration before
moving to compel. By delaying, defendants deprived plaintiffs of “efficiencies
that would have otherwise been available . . . through arbitration.” Guess?,
supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at 558. 
 
The public policy in
favor of arbitration is founded in the notion that arbitration is a “speedy and
relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution.” Adolph v. Coastal Auto
Sales, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1452. In Adolph, a delay of
six months before moving to compel arbitration was deemed sufficient to
frustrate that speed and efficiency, prejudicing plaintiffs. Id. Here,
defendants delayed seven months. Under Adolph, defendants’ delay was
long enough to support a finding of prejudice.
 
Defendants
delayed unreasonably, substantially invoked the litigation machinery and caused
prejudice to plaintiffs, thereby waiving their right to compel arbitration. DENIED.
