 Case Number:  23LBCV00951    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Marilyn Dwellingham
filed this action against Defendants, LB Property Management, Inc. and El
Capitan Homeowners Association for damages arising out of a leak in the common
areas of Plaintiff’s condominium building, which leak effectively shut down her
bathroom for many months.  
 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is her
First Amended Complaint, which she filed on 8/15/23.  It includes causes of action for negligence,
IIED, and NIED.   
 
1.     Today’s
Motions
a.     Matters
on Calendar
On calendar today are the parties’
cross-motions to compel deposition and for a protective order re:
deposition.  At issue is whether
Defendants’ employees, Enrique Olvera and Andrew Shallon, should be permitted
to attend Plaintiff’s deposition.  
 

Law Governing Attendance of Persons at Deposition 

The Discovery Act does not specifically state who may or may not attend
a deposition. But it recognizes that parties and their counsel have the right to
be there. This is implicit in the statute dealing with protective orders which
allows the court to exclude from a deposition “designated persons, other
than the parties to the action and their officers and counsel.”  CCP
§ 2025.420(b)(12).  
 
Therefore, a court has no power to grant a protective order barring a
party from attending another's deposition even on a showing that the deponent
will feel “intimidated” by the party's presence at the deposition. Willoughby
v. Sup.Ct. (Lui) (1985) 172 CA3d 890, 892, 218 CR 486, 487. 
 
The statute says a party's “officers” cannot be excluded. But this is
given a common-sense interpretation. Not every officer of a
corporate party is entitled to be present. To prevent discovery abuse, the
court may grant a protective order excluding some officers. Lowy
Develop. Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Fontenla) (1987) 190 CA3d 317, 321, 235 CR
401, 403.  By way of example, where a
corporate officer's deposition is being taken, a court may exclude other
officers whose depositions are to follow, to prevent their “parroting” the
first officer's testimony provided, however, that at least one officer or
agent other than the deponent is present at all times.  Id.  
 
As the statute makes clear, for “good cause shown” the court may
exclude “designated persons” from attending a deposition. CCP
§ 2025.420(b)(12).  But the converse
is also true: Absent a protective order, nonparties may attend a
deposition. (Indeed, it may be necessary or efficient to have a nonparty
attend: e.g., a caregiver for the deponent; or a consultant to hear the
testimony of an opposing expert.)
 
Unless counsel resolve the matter amicably, one side or the other will
suspend the deposition and seek a protective order. A showing will have to be
made that allowing such nonparties to attend would cause “unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression.”  CCP
§ 2025.420(b).
 

Analysis

Defendant argues its employees have the absolute right to attend the
deposition.  Motion to compel, page 6,
line 12 through page 7, line 12. 
Defendant fails, however, to show that Whallon and/or Olvera is an
officer of either defendant entity. 
Indeed, Defendant concedes they are not, and argues they are instead key
witnesses who should be treated similarly to officers of the entity defendants.  The legislature included “officers” in the
definition of persons who cannot be excluded from deposition.  It did not include any other employees.  The Court therefore finds Whallon and Olvera
do not have the absolute right to be present at the deposition.
 
The standard, therefore, is unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression.  Plaintiff argues this
standard is met for two reasons.  First,
she contends she was so fearful and distraught when Whallon and Olvera, the
persons who engaged in the conduct that forms the basis of this lawsuit,
appeared at deposition that she could not go forward with the deposition.  Second, she contends she will be testifying
about her private medical information, which Whallon and Olvera are not
entitled to know about.  
 
Defendant, on the other hand, contends Whallon and Olvera, as the
persons most involved in the case, need to be present at the deposition so they
can assist Counsel in ensuring proper follow-up questions are asked, providing
details about events that occurred to assist Counsel in guiding the deposition,
etc.
 
The Court finds it must balance the two parties’ interests in ruling on
the motion.  The Court notes that, while
there may be annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression if Whallon and/or Olvera
attend the deposition, that standing alone is not sufficient; it must be
“unwarranted.”  
 
The Court believes the parties can resolve this issue with
guidance.  The Court is inclined to find
Whallon and Olvera need to be present in some manner to assist Counsel in
connection with the deposition, but is inclined to have them on speaker phone
or something similar so that they can listen to the deposition without being
present in person and intimidating Plaintiff. 
The Court would suggest that they have their phones muted for the
deposition, and that they text message Counsel when they have follow-up
questions to suggest and/or when they need to speak to Counsel.  The conversation with Counsel can be outside
the presence of Plaintiff if she prefers, so there is no contact between
Plaintiff and Whallon/Olvera.  The Court
would also suggest Whallon and Olvera need not be present at all during any
portion of the deposition that concerns Plaintiff’s medical and health history,
records, etc., as they would have nothing to contribute, and the harassment of
their presence would be unwarranted in this regard.
 
The Court notes that trial is scheduled on 10/21/24, such that this
issue needs to be resolved quickly and the deposition needs to be completed
quickly.  The Court asks Counsel to meet
and confer forthwith with the above guidance in mind to resolve issues relating
to how the deposition will be conducted and when the deposition will be
conducted.  
 

Sanctions

Both parties seek imposition of sanctions.  The Court finds both parties took their
positions in good faith and with substantial justification, and also finds the
parties’ needs must be balanced, as discussed above.  Imposition of sanctions would therefore not
be just, and no sanctions are imposed.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.