  Case Number:  23LBCV00744    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Digital Planet Studio,
Inc. and Irfan Merchant filed this action for breach of contract and related
claims against Defendants, Thunder Studios, Inc., Roderic M. David, Rolando
Nichols, Candela Rebot, and Leslie Sorrentino. 
The action is complicated, but the crux of the action is that Plaintiffs
entered into a partly written, partly oral, and partly implied by conduct
agreement with Thunder, pursuant to which Digital would move to Thunder and
Thunder would ultimately acquire Digital’s Mobile Motion Mocap (“MMM”)
unit.  On 2/15/21, Thunder and Digital
entered into a written MOU, the terms of which are set forth at ¶10 of the
complaint.  Ultimately, Digital alleges
Thunder breached the agreement by not paying for services rendered, keeping all
rights to the content produced, never buying Digital’s assets, and instead
converting the assets for its own use, and failing to enter into a long-term
employment contract with Digital’s principal, Merchant.  
Ultimately, in August of 2021,
Defendants locked Merchant out of the offices, refusing to return his personal
property to him, and told him his services were no longer needed.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants never intended
to comply with the parties’ agreements, and instead merely intended to steal
their business, their employees, and their trade secret information.  
 

Motion to Compel

a.     Papers
Received
On 8/12/24, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel further responses, declaration, memorandum of points and
authorities, separate statement, and proposed order.  On 9/06/24, Defendants filed a responsive
separate statement.  On 9/06/24,
Plaintiffs filed a response to the separate statement, a reply, and an
objection to Defendants’ motion to strike. 

 
b.     Continuance
of Hearing
The Court is continuing the hearing
on this motion for several reasons.
 
First and foremost, the motion was
filed as a single motion, but it is really four motions.  Plaintiffs move to compel further responses
to FROGs, RPDs, and RFAs, and also move to compel production of documents.  Plaintiffs reserved only one hearing date and
paid only one filing fee, but are seeking a ruling on four motions.  Plaintiffs must reserve separate hearing
dates and pay separate filing fees for each motion.  This is particularly true where, as here,
Plaintiffs’ separate statement spans 59 pages. 

 
Second, Plaintiffs’ reply papers
make clear that Defendants filed opposition papers.  The opposition papers, however, are not in
the Court’s system.  
 
Third, Defendants’ response to
Plaintiffs’ separate statement correctly notes that the statement is
procedurally improper.  CRC 3.1345
requires Plaintiffs to include Defendants’ response to each discovery item at
issue verbatim; it is not acceptable for Plaintiffs to paraphrase the
responses.  Notably, Plaintiffs’
arguments in reply in this regard relate to motions to strike portions of a
complaint and separate statements filed in connection with summary judgment
motions, neither of which is relevant to the issue here, which is whether
Plaintiffs’ separate statement complies with the Rules of Court.
 
Fourth, the parties must continue
to meet and confer if they wish to avoid imposition of a discovery
referee.  The Court has reviewed the
parties’ prior interactions in connection with the pleading challenges and finds
these parties are extremely litigious and unlikely to resolve their discovery
disputes without greater than normal expenditure of judicial resources.
 
Plaintiffs must use the online
reservation system to find and reserve hearing dates for each motion and pay
the filing fees.  Plaintiffs need not
file new points and authorities or declarations, but must file new separate
statements for each reserved motion, and the separate statements must comply
with CRC 3.1345.  Defendants must ensure
all opposition documents are properly filed and appear in the eCourt system
after filing.  
 
Additionally, as noted above, the
parties must meet and confer in a further attempt to resolve the issues
presented by way of the motions.  If they
are unable to do so, the Court may appoint a discovery referee in lieu of
ruling on the voluminous disputes between the parties.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.