 Case Number:  23LBCV00849    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Abigail Monteverde, a
minor by and through her mother and guardian ad litem, Alejandra Monteverde,
filed this action against Defendants, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc., and Southern California Permanente Medical Group
for damages arising out of medical malpractice leading to the death of
Plaintiff’s father, Adrian Monteverde.  Notably,
Plaintiff and her mother pursued all claims against Defendants in arbitration,
but filed this action for the purpose of ensuring any disposition of the case
in favor of the minor plaintiff could be approved by way of this petition.  
 
At this time, the parties have
agreed to settle the entire action.  If
the settlement is approved, Defendants will pay Plaintiff and her mother the
total amount of $1,750,000.  Defendants
will pay Plaintiff $437,500 (with her mother receiving the balance), of which $142,251.32
will be used for attorneys’ fees and $6435.37 will be used for costs of suit;
the remaining $288,813.31 will be used to fund a single-premium deferred
annuity.
 
The Court has reviewed the
settlement and finds it is fair and reasonable. 
The Court also finds the request for attorneys’ fees in the amount of
33% fair and reasonable.  The Court has
reviewed Counsel’s declaration in support of the petition, and finds that both
the effort and the results in the case were extraordinary.    
 
Pursuant to CRC 7.952, unless their
appearance is excused, Plaintiff and Petitioner must appear at the hearing and
testify to the satisfaction of the Court before the petitions can be
granted.  Plaintiff is six years old, and
therefore the Court will excuse her appearance. 
If the Court is satisfied with Plaintiff’s mother’s testimony at the
hearing, it will grant the petition and sign the proposed order at the
conclusion of the hearing.
 
The Court notes that there is a
post-arbitration status conference on calendar on 11/20/24.  The Court takes the matter off calendar and
instead schedules an OSC re: dismissal for 11/20/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
S72.  
 
The Court advises the parties that remote appearances
are preferred.  