 Case Number:  23LBCV01851    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court has, in the past six to
nine months, seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses
and motions to compel PMK depositions in lemon law cases.  Similar issues are presented on all of the motions,
and the attorneys for both parties fail and refuse to meet and confer in good
faith in light of this Court’s prior rulings in order to resolve issues
relating to each case.  The Court’s
docket has been inundated with these motions, with discovery motions in lemon
law cases often taking up more than five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the
assistance of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on
these discovery motions.  The Court has
ruled on discovery motions relating to PMK depositions involving the instant
defendant, General Motors, in the following cases (among others):
23LBCV04061
22LBCV00901
22LBCV00761
22LBCV00456
23LBCV00126
21LBCV00261
 
The Court has read and considered
Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326,
331-334, wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of
sanctions against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered
payable to the other party directly.  The
Court finds the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that
does not benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in
connection with discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court
will rule on the motions.  
 
The Court notes that Defendant
provides evidence that it served an objection to the notice of deposition, and
Plaintiff provides evidence, in reply, that he never received the
objection.  The parties therefore never
met and conferred on the issues presented by way of the objection.  They must do so before the Court will hear
the motion.  
 
The hearing on the motion is
continued for one month, to 10/17/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  If the parties resolve their issues, they
must take the motion off calendar using the online reservation system.  If they are unable to resolve their issues,
they must file short (no more than five pages) briefs and declarations
detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument against
imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  They must also file a joint statement of
items in dispute.  The joint statement
must set forth each objection Defendant is asserting (to each PMK designation
and/or request for documents) and each party’s statement of reasons the
objection should be sustained or overruled. 
The parties must ensure their discussion in connection with each issue
is limited solely to that particular issue, and they must not re-state their
general position over and over in a non-specific manner.  
 
The joint statement, briefs and
declarations are due at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing
date.  
 
The 10/18/24 FSC and 10/21/24 jury
trial are continued to 11/18/24 and 11/21/24, respectively, both at 8:30 a.m.
in Department S27.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.