 Case Number:  23LBCV00922    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, County of Los Angeles
filed this action against Defendant, Perry G. Wong for workers’ compensation
subrogation arising out of a motor vehicle accident.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant was involved in
an accident with Plaintiff’s employee, John Burchard, while he was on
duty.  Plaintiff paid workers’
compensation benefits, and seeks to recover the amounts paid from
Defendant.  Defendant passed away during
the pendency of the action, and his estate has been substituted in as the real
party in interest.  
 
2.     Motion
for Discovery of Peace Officer Records (Pitchess Motion)
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendant seeks to discover Officer
Burchard’s personnel file, specifically his employment compensation records,
medical records, workers’ compensation records relating to the subject claim,
documents relating to any other presently active claims, and documents relating
to prior claims involving injuries to the same body parts as the current
claim.  Defendant contends the subject
records are necessary to determine whether Burchard’s claimed damages resulted
from this accident or other past injuries, such that damages can be properly
apportioned, as well as the appropriate amount of compensation paid to Burchard
as a result of this incident.  
 
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 9/04/24.  COLA filed
untimely opposition to the motion on 9/05/24. 
The Court has read and considered the late-filed opposition.    
 
b.     Law
Governing Pitchess Motions
In Pitchess, the California
Supreme Court held that a criminal defendant is entitled to discovery of an
officer's personnel records if the information contained in the records is
relevant to his ability to defend against the charge. Later enacted legislation
implementing the court's rule permitting discovery (Pen.Code, §§ 832.5, 832.7,
832.8; Evid.Code, §§ 1043-1047) balanced the accused's need for disclosure of
relevant information against a law enforcement officer's legitimate expectation
of privacy in his or her personnel records. The Legislature concluded that a
defendant, by written motion, may obtain information contained in a police
officer's personnel records if it is material to the facts of the case.
(Evid.Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3)).  When
presented with such a motion, the trial court rules as to whether there is good
cause for disclosure. (Evid.Code, §§ 1043, 1045.) If the court orders
disclosure, the custodian of the officer's records brings to court all the
potentially relevant personnel records and, in camera, the trial court
determines whether any of the records are to be disclosed to the defense.
During the in camera hearing, neither the defense nor the prosecution is
present. (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216,1226-1227.)
In any case, civil or criminal, in
which discovery or disclosure of a peace officer's personnel records are
sought, the party seeking disclosure must file a written motion, known in the
criminal context as a Pitchess motion, that, among other things, describes the
information sought and states good cause for the discovery, “setting forth the
materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation
and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has
the records or information from the records.” (Evid.Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3);
see generally, Evid.Code, §§ 1043, 1045; Pen.Code, §§ 832.5, 832.7, 832.8;
People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.) The affidavit setting forth good
cause “may be on information and belief and need not be based on personal
knowledge [citation], but the information sought must be requested with
sufficient specificity to preclude the possibility of a defendant's simply
casting about for any helpful information [citation].” (Mooc, at p. 1226.) If
the moving party fulfills these requirements, then the court examines the
records in camera. (Ibid.) This process balances the conflicting interests of
the moving party's right to a fair trial and the officer's interest in privacy.
(Id. at p. 1227.) An officer thus has a conditional privilege in his or her
personnel records.  (Fagan v. Superior
Court (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 607, 614.)
 
Penal Code §832.8 defines
“personnel records” to include:
As used in Section 832.7,
"personnel records" means any file maintained under that individual's
name by his or her employing agency and containing records relating to any of
the following:
(a) Personal
data, including marital status, family members, educational and employment
history, home addresses, or similar information.
 (b) Medical history.
 (c) Election of employee benefits.
 (d) Employee advancement, appraisal, or
discipline.
 (e) Complaints, or investigations of
complaints, concerning an event or transaction in which he or she participated,
or which he or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in which he or she
performed his or her duties.
(f) Any other
information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy.
 
c.      Service
Defendant filed proof of service of
the moving papers on Burchard.  Defendant
failed, however, to file proof of service of the moving papers on Plaintiff,
COLA.  Because COLA filed opposition to
the motion, the Court presumes COLA was served with the moving papers.  
 
d.     Scope
of Requests
Defendant seeks to obtain Officer
Burchard’s medical and workers’ compensation records in order to show that
Officer Burchard’s damages were not caused entirely by the collision that forms
the basis of this lawsuit.  COLA contends
it does not possess the workers’ compensation records, which are in the
possession of its third party administrator. 
To the extent COLA is able to access the records, the Court orders it to
do so; there is no reason to require Defendant to serve an additional subpoena
to the third party administrator if COLA is able to obtain these records.  
 
COLA does not meaningfully
articulate why it believes the other records sought are not so highly relevant
as to overcome Officer Burchard’s right to privacy.  Notably, Defendant has limited the request to
records relating to the same body parts at issue in this lawsuit.  Clearly, if those body parts have been
previously injured, information about those injuries is so highly relevant to
Defendant’s defense as to overcome any right of privacy.
 
e.     In
Camera Hearing
Both parties agree that, pursuant
to Evidence Code §1045(d), the Court must conduct an in camera inspection of
the subject documents before ordering them produced.  The Court will do so.  As COLA correctly notes in its opposition
papers, its custodian of records, any person the custodian wishes to have
present, and COLA’s attorney are permitted to be present at the inspection.  
 
COLA states, at page 2 of its
opposition, “Please be advised that the Custodian of Records may not be
available at the time of the hearing on the motion.”  COLA does not brief the issue of what remedy
should be provided if the custodian is not available.  The Court will conduct the inspection on the
hearing date unless COLA establishes that a new and different date is necessary
for the inspection.
 
Pursuant to City of Alhambra v.
Superior Court (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1118, 1131, the Court will order a
compliance date sufficient to allow the County to seek a writ of mandate if it
wishes to do so.
 
f.      Protective
Order
As required by CCP §1045(e) and
Alford v. Superior Court (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1033, 1039-1040, the
disclosed information may not be used for any purpose other than a court
proceeding pursuant to applicable law. 
COLA has submitted a proposed protective order in this regard.  