 Case Number:  23LBCV01915    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Jesus Camez Eschevarria and Joanna S. Flores filed this
action against Defendant, General Motors LLC for violations of
Song-Beverly.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment

Burdens on Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Analysis 

Defendant moves for summary judgment on the complaint on the ground
that because Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle used from a third-party used car
dealer, the vehicle does not meet the statutory definition of a “new motor
vehicle” within the scope of the Song-Beverly Act.  
 
Defendant cites case law for its position that such a vehicle cannot
qualify as a “new motor vehicle” within the meaning of the Act even where, as
here, the used vehicle was purchased with some balance remaining on the express
warranty.  See Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209,
221 (Rodriguez) (“nothing about the wording or structure of the
provision indicates the Legislature intended to expand the definition of ‘new
motor vehicle’ to include used vehicles sold with some part of the manufacturer's
warranty still in force”).  
 
However, on July 13, 2022, the Supreme Court granted review in Rodriguez. 
See Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 295 Cal.Rptr.3d 351 (pending review,
Rodriguez may be cited for its persuasive value and for the limited
purpose of establishing existence of conflict in authority). 
 
In the interim, the Second Appellate District, which encompasses this trial
court, reached a conclusion contrary to the holding in Rodriguez in Stiles
v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 913 (Stiles). 
On July 24, 2024, the Supreme Court granted review in Stiles.  See Stiles
v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (Cal. 2024) 551 P.3d 1123.  In Stiles,
the Second District Court of Appeal held “that a previously owned motor vehicle
purchased with the manufacturer's new car warranty still in effect is a ‘new
motor vehicle’ as defined under the Act.”  Stiles, supra,
101 Cal.App.5th at p. 915. 
 
Stiles presents a
clear departure from the analysis set forth in Rodriguez and a split in
circuit court authority.  Given that the Supreme Court has granted review
in both cases and given that Stiles was decided by the appellate
district encompassing this court, this court will follow the holding in Stiles
unless and until the Supreme Court issues further direction or there are other
developments in the law. 
 
Based on the holding in Stiles, the definition of “new motor
vehicle” under the Act includes used cars sold with a balance remaining on the
manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty.¿ See Stiles, supra,
101 Cal.App.5th at p. 915; see also Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 123 (holding the same).  The motion for summary
judgment is therefore denied.
 

Additional Issues Presented by Opposition

Plaintiff makes additional arguments in opposition to the motion
relating to the admissibility of the moving evidence and the need for
additional discovery.  A ruling on those
arguments is not necessary in light of the ruling above, which is that the
motion is denied pursuant to current applicable authority.  
 
The motion for summary judgment is denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.