 Case Number:  24LBCV00815    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Dean Himbler Aviles
filed this action against Defendants, Burce Gridley and Helpful Hosing Business
Center in Long Beach, California for RICO, racketeering, conspiracy, and
carjacking.  The nature of the claims is unclear,
but appear to include dog fighting, robbery, identify theft, and other criminal
operations.  
 
2.     Demurrer
a.    
Meet and Confer
CCP section 430.41 requires that
“[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before
the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the
demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
Defense Counsel declares the
complaint does not include an email address or phone number, so he sent meet
and confer correspondence by regular mail, but did not receive a response.  The meet and confer requirement has therefore
been satisfied.  
 
b.    
Standard
on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
c.     Analysis

As Defendant correctly notes in
demurrer, the nature of the complaint cannot be ascertained by reviewing the
complaint.  The caption of the complaint
uses the words “RICO,” “racketeer,” “conspiracy,” and “carjacking.”  The body of the complaint indicates it
contains a first count for Violation of 18 USC §1962(D) and a second “attempted
count” for Violation of 18 USC §2119(2)2 “car jacking.”  
 
18 USC §1962 provides:
(a) It shall be unlawful for any
person who has received any income derived, directly or indirectly, from a
pattern of racketeering activity or through collection of an unlawful debt in
which such person has participated as a principal within the meaning of section
2, title 18, United States Code, to use or invest, directly or indirectly, any
part of such income, or the proceeds of such income, in acquisition of any
interest in, or the establishment or operation of, any enterprise which is
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
A purchase of securities on the open market for purposes of investment, and
without the intention of controlling or participating in the control of the
issuer, or of assisting another to do so, shall not be unlawful under this
subsection if the securities of the issuer held by the purchaser, the members
of his immediate family, and his or their accomplices in any pattern or
racketeering activity or the collection of an unlawful debt after such purchase
do not amount in the aggregate to one percent of the outstanding securities of
any one class, and do not confer, either in law or in fact, the power to elect
one or more directors of the issuer.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any
person through a pattern of racketeering activity or through collection of an
unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in
or control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any
person employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the
activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or
participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any
person to conspire to violate any of the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or
(c) of this section.
 
Defendant correctly notes, in
demurrer, that pursuant to H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell, 482 U.S. at 229,
239-243, Plaintiff must allege the Defendants engaged in a continuity of
predicate acts (violations of federal law). 
The Court is not clear on what federal law Defendant is alleged to have
violated, or how there is any continuity of acts.  Additionally, Plaintiff has not pled any
connection between Defendant’s criminal acts and interstate commerce, as
required per the statute.  
 
The demurrer to the first count for
violation of RICO is sustained.
Plaintiff’s second count is labeled
as an “attempted count.”  It sounds under
18 USC §2119(2), which provides:
Whoever, with the intent to cause
death or serious bodily harm, takes a motor vehicle that has been transported,
shipped, or received in interstate or foreign commerce from the person or
presence of another by force and violence or by intimidation, or attempts to do
so, shall--
…
(2) if serious bodily injury (as
defined in section 1365 of this title, including any conduct that, if the
conduct occurred in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the
United States, would violate section 2241 or 2242 of this title) results, be
fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 25 years, or both, and
 
This is a criminal statute and has
no application to civil court. 
Additionally, Plaintiff does not allege any facts showing this demurring
defendant engaged in any conduct that would support the claim, even if it were
a viable civil claim.  
 
The demurrer to the second
“attempted count” is also sustained.
 
d.     Leave
to Amend
It is not up to the Court to figure
out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action.  Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to
show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment
will change the legal effect of the pleading. 
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.
 
Plaintiff did not file opposition
to the demurrer and has therefore necessarily failed to meet this burden.  The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  
3.     OSC,
CMC, OSC
The parties are reminded that there
is an Order to Show Cause re: failure to file proof of service, Case Management
Conference, and Order to Show Cause re: Plaintiff’s Failure to Appear,
Prosecute, and Dismissal on calendar contemporaneously with the hearing on the
above demurrer.  The Court asks the
parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the OSC, CMC, and OSC.