 Case Number:  24STCV03860    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
8231 DELONGPRE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KINGSTON MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC., et al.,
  
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV03860
  Hearing Date:  January 3, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff 8231
Delogpre, LLC filed this action against Defendants Kingston Management Group,
Inc. (KMG) and Ian Hollinger (Hollinger). Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint on August 1, 2024, asserting causes of action for (1) breach
of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
(3) negligence, (4) fraud, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6) accounting, and
(7) violation of Business and Professions Code section 7031.
            Plaintiff hired KMG to perform
property management, construction supervision, and oversight with respect to an
apartment building in West Hollywood. The FAC alleges that KMG and its
principal, Hollinger, engaged in unlicensed construction work, failed to secure
storage rooms and lock boxes, failed to properly register leases, failed to
perform services as required, failed to keep Plaintiff updated, and failed to
provide a full accounting of funds.
            On November 25, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the FAC. Plaintiff
filed its opposition on December 19, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on
November 23, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
(See Liston Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
a. Breach of Contract
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) “Where a complaint is based
on a written contract which it sets out in full, a general demurrer to the
complaint admits not only the contents of the instrument but also any pleaded
meaning to which the instrument is reasonably susceptible. [Citation.] While
plaintiff's interpretation of the contract ultimately may prove invalid, it [is]
improper to resolve the issue against her solely on her own pleading.” (Aragon-Haas
v. Family Security Ins. Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.) 
Defendants argue
that the alleged breaches (FAC ¶ 17) are not reflected in the actual terms of
the agreement attached as Exhibit 1 to the FAC. However, what the contract
terms are and how KMG breached them are different matters. Exhibit 1 sets forth
the terms of the contract, while paragraph 17 of the FAC sets forth the ways in
which KMG allegedly breached the contract. Defendants cite no authority for
their proposition that if a certain act is not expressly prohibited by the
contract terms, then the act cannot constitute a breach. (See Reply 3:1-9.) If
that were true, parties would have to predict every single act that could
potentially constitute a breach and write the corresponding prohibition into
their contract. Of course, California law imposes no such requirement.
Ultimately, whether the alleged acts in paragraph 17 constitute a breach of the
contract is a factual question unsuited for demurrer.   
For example, the
alleged acts may constitute a breach of section (a) on page 2 of the contract:
“Manager shall perform its duties hereunder in a commercially reasonable manner
consistent with local industry practices in the area where the Project is
located and Manager shall exercise the same degree of care, prudence and skill
that Manager exercises (or would exercise) in the management of Manager's own
properties.” (FAC, Ex. 1.) The list of misconduct alleged in paragraph 17
sufficiently demonstrates a failure to perform manager duties in a commercially
reasonable manner or with the requisite degree of care. Plaintiff has pled a
reasonable interpretation of the contract for demurrer purposes. (See Aragon-Haas,
supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 239.) 
The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the first cause of action. 
b.
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            “The covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to
prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right
to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.” (Guz v. Bechtel
National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-50.) “The covenant of good faith and fair dealing imposes obligations on the
contracting parties separate and apart from those consensually agreed to.” (Bodenhamer
v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1472, 1477.) “The obligations
imposed by the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing are not those
set out in the terms of the contract itself, but rather are obligations imposed
by law.” (Id. at p. 1478.) Therefore, “breach of a specific
provision of the contract is not a necessary prerequisite to a claim for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Schwartz v. State
Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1329, 1339.) 
            Nonetheless,
“the scope of conduct prohibited by the covenant of good faith is circumscribed
by the purposes and express terms of the contract.” (Avidity Partners, LLC
v. State of California (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1204.) “The implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing does not impose substantive terms and
conditions beyond those to which the parties actually agreed.” (Ibid.) “It
cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties beyond
those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.” (Ibid.)

            Defendants
argue that the alleged actions under the implied covenant claim do not pertain
to the express terms of the contract. The Court disagrees. For pleading
purposes, the list of failures detailed in the FAC are sufficiently related to
the express terms of the contract such that they may be considered obligations
that were contemplated by the parties. (See FAC ¶ 23.) It is a factual question
whether the alleged acts actually constitute a breach of the implied covenant. The
FAC further alleges that KMG and its agents acted “to enjoy and use the
wrongfully withheld sums to further their own interests.” (Id., ¶ 24.)
This establishes that KMG “unfairly frustrat[ed] the [plaintiff]’s right to
receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.” (See Guz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at pp. 349-50.) For pleading
purposes, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a breach of the implied covenant.  
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second cause of action.
c.
Fraud
“The elements of
fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations. (Small v.
Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Lazar, supra, 12
Cal.4th at p. 645.)
Here, the FAC
lacks the requisite specificity. While the FAC attributes some statements to
Hollinger that allegedly induced Plaintiff to enter the contract, it fails to
specify how the statements were made, when they were made, and to whom they
were made. (See FAC ¶¶ 44-46.) Therefore, the fraud claim has not been
sufficiently pled. 
The demurrer is
SUSTAINED as to the fourth cause of action.
d.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            “The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) the
existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3)
damages proximately caused by the breach.” (Tribeca Companies, LLC v. First
American Title Insurance Company (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1114.) 
            The
FAC alleges that KMG, as Plaintiff’s property manager, owed Plaintiff “duties
of care, loyalty, and good faith” and was “obligated to act in the best
interests of Plaintiff and to place Plaintiff’s interests ahead of their own.”
(FAC ¶ 57.) The facts alleged throughout the complaint establish that KMG
failed to do this. Thus, Plaintiff has adequately pled a breach of fiduciary
duty. As this is not a fraud claim, the specificity called for by the demurrer
is unwarranted. The particular facts proving a breach of fiduciary duty may be
ascertained in discovery. 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fifth cause of action.
e.
Business and Professions Code Section 7031
            “[A]
contractor is any person who undertakes to or offers to undertake to, or
purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or submits a bid to, or does
himself or herself or by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road,
parking facility, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development
or improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of
scaffolding or other structures or works in connection therewith.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 7026.) “[A] person who utilizes the services of an unlicensed
contractor may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this
state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for
performance of any act or contract.” (Id., § 7031(b).) 
            The
FAC alleges that “KMG directly hired its own employees (as this term is defined
under the worker’s compensation laws) to perform construction services and
repairs at the Property. By directly hiring and supervising unlicensed
construction workers to perform work and deliver materials to the Property, KMG
acted as a ‘Contractor’ as defined by Bus. & Prof. Code § 7026.” (FAC ¶
64.) KMG allegedly performed the work itself and “did not retain the services
of a licensed contractor to perform the work.” (Id., ¶ 67.) KMG was not
licensed. (Id., ¶ 66.) Plaintiff allegedly paid KMG directly for the
work. (Id., ¶ 68.) For pleading purposes, these facts establish KMG as a
contractor and state a cause of action for unlicensed contracting. (See Bus.
& Prof. Code, §§ 7026, 7031(b).) 
            Defendants
argue that KMG is referenced throughout the complaint as a property manager,
not a contractor. However, the label is not dispositive. Plaintiff has alleged
that KMG directly performed the construction work and was directly paid for the
work, thereby acting as an unlicensed contractor. (See Bus. & Prof. Code, §
7026.) For pleading purposes, this is sufficient to state a cause of action
under section 7031. 
            Defendants
further contend that the cause of action is uncertain because it fails to plead
the specific acts amounting to unlicensed contracting and fails to demonstrate
that the acts fall within the one-year statute of limitations. (See San
Francisco CDC LLC v. Webcor Construction L.P. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 266,
278 [one-year statute of limitations applies to claims under Business and
Professions Code section 7031(b)].)
However, a demurrer for
uncertainty is disfavored and is only granted “if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (A.J. Fistes
Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) A
complaint does not need to be a “model of clarity” to survive a demurrer
because most ambiguities can be clarified through discovery. (Ibid.)
Here, the FAC has alleged sufficient facts to place Defendants on notice of the
nature of the claim. Specific facts, such as the precise acts and their dates,
are ascertainable from discovery. Their absence from the complaint does not
render it so incomprehensible that Defendants cannot respond. Moreover, a demurrer does not lie unless a
statute of limitations defect appears on the face of the complaint. (Roman
v. County of Los Angeles (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 316, 324-25.) There is
nothing in the complaint establishing that the claim is time-barred as a matter
of law. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
seventh cause of action. 
II.
Motion to Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            Here, KMG allegedly hired
incompetent workers for construction, failed to supervise the work, overcharged
Plaintiff to retain secret profits, mishandled dealings with the City causing
Plaintiff to lose income, failed to keep Plaintiff apprised of insurance
payment deadlines, failed to provide accurate financial records, and converted
funds from Plaintiff’s trust account, among other things. (FAC ¶¶ 8-13.) KMG
allegedly sought to maximize its own profits at Plaintiff’s expense. (Id.,
¶ 53.) For pleading purposes, these acts sufficiently constitute a breach of
fiduciary duty and additionally show “willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of” Plaintiff and “unjust hardship in conscious disregard of [Plaintiff’s]
rights.” (See Civ. Code, § 3294(c).) 
            The motion is DENIED as to punitive
damages.
            b. Attorney’s Fees
“Except as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) Thus, “[a]ttorney fees are
not recoverable unless a fee award is expressly authorized by either statute or
the parties’ contract.” (Ilshin Investment Co., Ltd. v. Buena Vista Home
Entertainment, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 612, 627.)   
Plaintiff claims attorney’s fees under an
indemnification provision in the parties’ contract: 
 
“Manager shall
indemnify, defend and hold Owner harmless from and against all loss, cost,
expenses, claims, demands, or legal proceedings (including costs, expenses, and
reasonable attorney's fees) due to the negligence or willful misconduct of
Manager or any of Manager's employees, agents or consultants or arising out of
any action taken by Manager or any of Manager’s employees, agents, or
consultants in breach of this Agreement. The terms and conditions of this
paragraph shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.”
(FAC,
Ex. 1, p. 3.) 
            “Generally, an indemnification
provision allows one party to recover costs incurred defending actions by third
parties, not attorney fees incurred in an action between the parties to the
contract.” (Alki Partners, LP v. DB Fund Services, LLC (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 574, 600.) “A clause that contains the words ‘indemnify’ and ‘hold
harmless’ generally obligates the indemnitor to reimburse the indemnitee for any
damages the indemnitee becomes obligated to pay third persons.” (Ibid.)
“The court will not infer that the parties intended an indemnification
provision to cover attorney fees between the parties if the provision ‘does not
specifically provide for attorney's fees in an action on the contract.’”
(Id. at pp. 600-601, emphasis in original.) Even an indemnification
clause in which one party promised to indemnify the other from “any, all, and
every claim” arising out of “the performance of the contract” did not cover
first-party claims. (See Myers Building Industries, Ltd. v. Interface
Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 974.) 
            The indemnification clause cited by
Plaintiff is nothing more than a typical indemnification clause pertaining to
actions by third parties. It does not expressly provide for attorney’s fees in
an action between the parties themselves. Thus, there is no contractual basis
for attorney’s fees.  
            Plaintiff also argues that
attorney’s fees are warranted under the “tort of another” doctrine. (See Prentice
v. North American Title Guaranty Corp. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 620-21.)
However, Plaintiff admits that this theory is not pled in the complaint. (Opp.,
p. 7, fn. 1.) Plaintiff may amend the complaint to allege this theory.
            The motion is GRANTED as to
attorney’s fees.
            c. Treble Damages
            “Any unlicensed person who causes
injury or damage to another person as a result of providing goods or performing
services for which a license is required . . . shall be liable to the injured
person for treble the amount of damages assessed in a civil action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1029.8(a).) 
            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
pled that KMG acted as an unlicensed contractor. Thus, treble damages are
applicable under section 1029.8(a). 
            The motion is DENIED as to treble
damages. 
            
 
d. Stearman Costs
            “For the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, the measure of damages, except where otherwise expressly
provided by this Code, is the amount which will compensate for all the
detriment proximately caused thereby, whether it could have been anticipated or
not.” (Civ. Code, § 3333.) In a construction defect case, expert fees for
investigation related to the cost of repair are recoverable as damages under
section 3333. (Stearman v. Centex Homes (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 611, 624-25.)

            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
pled that KMG acted as an unlicensed contractor that directly performed the
allegedly inadequate construction work. Plaintiff alleges that it has incurred
investigation costs as a result. (FAC ¶ 41.) Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently
established a basis for Stearman costs. 
            The motion is DENIED as to Stearman
costs. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED as
to the fourth cause of action with leave to amend and OVERRULED in all other
respects. The motion to strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s fees with leave to
amend and DENIED in all other respects. 
            