 Case Number:  24STCV29335    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
KARLA MENDOZA, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
NLC CA, INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV29335
  Hearing Date:  January 3, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On November 7, 2024, Plaintiffs
Karla Mendoza and Sergio Mendoza filed this action against Defendants NLC CA,
Inc., Quanta Services, Inc., Matthew Clayton Compher, and Justin Vaughan. The
complaint asserts causes of action for wrongful death and survivor based on the
death of Plaintiffs’ son, Carlos Mendoza. Carlos Mendoza allegedly died as a
result of a fall from a utility pole during an exercise at Northwest Lineman
College. Plaintiffs allege that NLC CA, Inc. and its agents negligently failed
to ensure the safety of the utility pole. 
            On December 6, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on December 16, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on December 26,
2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Furthermore, the Federal Arbitration Act
(FAA) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a
transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) The FAA governs
contracts “involving commerce,” which has been interpreted to mean simply
“affecting commerce” to give the FAA the broadest reach possible, and does not
require a transaction that is actually “within the flow of interstate
commerce.” (See
Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 273-74; Citizens
Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52, 56.) Moreover, parties may agree
to apply the FAA notwithstanding any effect on interstate commerce. (Victrola
89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) An electronic
signature has the same legal effect as a handwritten signature. (Civ. Code, §
1633.7(a).) An “electronic signature is attributable to a person if it was the
act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including
a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the
person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.”
(Id., § 1633.9(a).) “[T]he burden of authenticating an electronic
signature is not great.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 844.)
            Here, Defendants present evidence of
the agreement through the declaration of Michael Daniels, the CEO of NLC CA,
Inc. (Daniels Decl. ¶ 1.) Mr. Daniels avers that a student enrolling at NLC
must create an online user profile with credentials and electronically sign an
Enrollment Agreement. (Id., ¶ 3.) A student cannot begin coursework
without first signing the Enrollment Agreement. (Ibid.) Carlos Mendoza’s
student file indicates that he signed the Enrollment Agreement on August 22,
2023. (Id., ¶¶ 2, 6, Ex. 1.) Mr. Mendoza signed the overall Agreement
and initialed the arbitration provision. (Id., Ex. 1.) 
            The arbitration provision states the
following: “The Student agrees that any dispute arising from enrollment at NLC
CA, Inc. . . . or through use or entry at any NLC Premises . . . shall be
resolved by binding arbitration under the substantive and procedural
requirements of the Federal Arbitration Act by a single arbitrator, conducted
by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) under its Commercial
Arbitration Rules.” (Daniels Decl., Ex. 1.) The provision further states that
“[b]oth the Student and NLC irrevocably agree that any dispute between them shall
be submitted to arbitration” and that “[n]either the Student nor NLC shall file
or maintain any lawsuit in any court against the other.” (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiffs purport to “dispute the
authenticity of the arbitration agreement” because there is “no corresponding
electronic record or meta data detailing who signed, or when.” (Opp. 4:1-5.)
However, at the initial step, “a movant need not ‘follow the normal procedures
of document authentication’ and need only ‘allege the existence of an agreement
and support the allegation.’” (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755.) Defendants have done that through the declaration of Mr.
Daniels. “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden shifts to the
party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to the agreement's
existence” through “admissible evidence creating a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of their signatures.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs have presented no
such evidence and have therefore failed to raise a factual dispute over the
authenticity of the agreement.  
Moreover, Plaintiffs cite no authority
requiring “electronic record or meta data” to authenticate an electronic
signature. (See Opp. 4:1-5.) An electronic signature may be authenticated “in
any manner,” and the burden is “not great.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9(a); Ruiz,
supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.) Plaintiffs do not dispute that a student
who enrolls at NLC must sign the Enrollment Agreement, which includes an
arbitration provision. Plaintiffs do not dispute that Carlos Mendoza enrolled
at NLC and therefore must have signed the Enrollment Agreement prior to
beginning his coursework. 
            Plaintiffs further contend that Mr.
Daniels lacks the personal knowledge to testify to Carlos Mendoza’s signature
on the agreement. (Opp. 4:6-12.) However, “the custodian of a document need not
have been present or employed when the document was created or signed to
authenticate a document in a company's files.” (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 758.) “[A]ny qualified witness knowledgeable about documents
may lay foundation for business records.” (Id. at p. 759.) There is
“no strict requirement as to how a party authenticates a writing.” (Ibid.)
Mr. Daniels is the CEO of NLC, is responsible for facilitating student
enrollment, and reviewed Carlos Mendoza’s student file. (Daniels Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.)
Mr. Daniels has sufficiently demonstrated his personal knowledge of NLC’s
enrollment and document practices to authenticate Exhibit 1. 
            Therefore, even if Plaintiffs had
raised a factual dispute, Defendants have presented sufficient evidence to
authenticate the arbitration agreement. The Court finds that a valid
arbitration agreement exists between Carlos Mendoza and NLC.[1]   
II.
Conflicting Proceedings
It is undisputed that Plaintiffs’ survivor
claim, which is asserted on behalf of decedent Carlos Mendoza, falls within the
scope of the arbitration agreement. (See Exarhos v. Exarhos (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 898, 905 [a decedent’s successor-in-interest stands in the same
position as the decedent]; Thomas, supra, 204 Cal.App.4th at p. 613, fn.
5 [a successor-in-interest is bound by an arbitration agreement signed by the
decedent].) Defendants acknowledge that “Plaintiffs’ individual wrongful death
claim is not subject to arbitration.” (Mtn. 13:13.) Thus, Defendants only move
to arbitrate the survivor claim and request a stay of the court action.  
Plaintiffs argue that arbitration should
be denied under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c). Under that
provision, a court may deny arbitration if “[a] party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c).) Plaintiffs argue that arbitrating
the survivor claim while the wrongful death claim remains in court risks
inconsistent rulings.  
However, the parties have expressly agreed
to adopt the procedural rules of the FAA. (See Daniels Decl., Ex. 1 [disputes “shall
be resolved by binding arbitration under the substantive and procedural
requirements of the Federal Arbitration Act”].) Section 3 of the FAA states
that a court “shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the
action until such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the
agreement.” (9 U.S.C. § 3.) Section 4 states that “the court shall make an order
directing the parties to proceed to arbitration in accordance with the terms of
the agreement.” (Id., § 4.) Neither provision gives the court discretion
to deny arbitration based on the risk of inconsistent rulings. In fact, the FAA
requires “arbitration of pendent arbitrable claims when one of the parties
files a motion to compel, even where the result would be the possibly
inefficient maintenance of separate proceedings in different forums.” (Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. v. Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 217.) The FAA “leaves no
place for the exercise of discretion by a district court, but instead mandates
that district courts shall direct the parties to proceed to arbitration
on issues as to which an arbitration agreement has been signed.” (Id. at
p. 218, emphasis in original.)
Because the parties have expressly agreed
to adopt the procedural rules of the FAA over the CAA, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2(c) does not apply. (See Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v.
Safety National Casualty Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 471, 478-82.) Instead,
sections 3 and 4 of the FAA apply, requiring the Court to compel arbitration
and stay the civil action.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED as to the survivor cause of action only. The case is
stayed in its entirety pending the outcome of arbitration. 


