  Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  ANDREW BERGMAN, et al.,                            Plaintiffs,            v. ISAAC BLOCHER, et al.,                         Defendants.   Case No.: 21GDCV01353   Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:DEMURRER; MOTION TO STRIKE BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiffs Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, and Carlos Zoller (“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against Defendant Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Aneaka English, Blocher Holdings LLC, Consortium Title, LLC, Wholesale Listings Ltd. Co., LLC, Wholesale Real Estate, LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC aka WSRE S. Carolina, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling Real Estate, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, and E.S. Real Estate Consortium Corp.  Shepherds, LLC is named as a nominal defendant.Plaintiffs allege that they are members and investors of Shepherds LLC.  Isaac and Kristie Blocher are alleged to be the members of Blocher Holdings LLC (now dissolved) and Blocher Holdings LLC served as the manager for Shepherds LLC.  Isaac Blocher is also alleged to be the manager of Shepherds LLC. Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher made false promises to Plaintiffs to induce their investment into Shepherds LLC, such as promising he would generate income for Plaintiffs, be a professional investment mortgage broker and private lender, be a good steward to Plaintiffs’ investment, etc.  (SAC, ¶42.)  In reliance on Isaac Blocher’s representations, Plaintiffs invested a total of $2,437,488 into Shepherds LLC.   Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher invested nearly all of Plaintiffs’ funds with Aneaka English and transferred nearly $2.1 million from the company’ bank account into Aneaka English’s bank account.  Plaintiffs allege that Aneaka English subsequently stole the money.  Plaintiffs allege that this and other conduct by Isaac Blocher amounted to grossly negligence and/or reckless investing and behavior. The second amended complaint (“SAC”), filed September 5, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty – count one – direct cause of action; (2) breach of fiduciary duty – count two – derivative cause of action; (3) conversion – count one – direct cause of action; (4) conversion – count two – derivative cause of action; (5) fraud – count one – direct cause of action; (6) negligence – count one – direct cause of action; (7) negligence – count two – derivative cause of action; (8) breach of written contract – count one – direct cause of action; (9) breach of written contract – count two – derivative cause of action; (10) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing – direct cause of action; (11) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count one – direct cause of action; (12) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count two – derivative cause of action; (13) accounting – count one – direct cause of action; and (14) accounting – count two – derivative cause of action.B.    Cross-ComplaintOn October 20, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Aneaka English aka Aneaka Ukah, Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, and WSRE South Carolina LLC (“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, Carlos Zoller, Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Blocher Holdings, LLC, and Shepherds, LLC.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) accounting; (2) declaratory relief; (3) violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.; and (4) interpleader.C.    Motions on CalendarOn November 20, 2023, Cross-Defendants Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, and Carlos Zoller (hereinafter, “Moving Cross-Defendants”) filed a demurrer to the cross-complaint.  Moving Cross-Defendants concurrently filed a motion to strike portions of the cross-complaint.The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.DISCUSSION            Moving Cross-Defendants demur to each cause of action alleged in the cross-complaint.  Moving Cross-Defendants argue that the cross-complaint is untimely as it was not filed concurrently with the answer and they did not seek leave of Court to file an untimely cross-complaint.   They also demur on the grounds that the causes of action fail to allege sufficient facts.            Moving Cross-Defendants also move to strike the entirety of the cross-complaint on the ground that it is untimely.  Alternatively, they move to strike paragraph 56 from the cross-complaint. A.   Untimely Cross-ComplaintCCP § 428.50 states:(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.(CCP § 428.50.)             Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed an answer to the SAC on October 5, 2023.  They then filed their cross-complaint on October 20, 2023.  Thus, the cross-complaint was not timely filed pursuant to CCP § 428.50(a).  In addition, they did not seek leave of court pursuant to subsection (c) to file the cross-complaint.            As such, the filing of the cross-complaint is improper and may be stricken on this ground.  In Moving Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike, they move to strike the entirety of the cross-complaint on this ground.  The motion to strike the cross-complaint in its entirety is granted on this basis.            Nevertheless, the Court will also address the merits of the demurrer as further basis for finding the pleadings to be insufficient.B.    1st cause of action for Accounting“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.”  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)  “An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.”  (Id.)  It is equitable in nature and may be sought where the accounts are “so complicated that an ordinary legal action demanding a fixed sum is impracticable.”  (Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 381, 403.)  Namely, this arises where the defendant has abused a special relationship with the plaintiff (i.e., cases involving trusts, partnerships and domestic relations, or fiduciary relationships), such that the review of financial records is better left to qualified forensic accountants.  (Id. at 403-04.)             In the 1st cause of action, Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendants and Cross-Complainants have engaged in business transactions over a period of time, resulting in a dispute as to the amounts Cross-Complainants claim they owe Cross-Defendants.  (XC, ¶44.)  They allege that here is an unliquidated and unascertained balance of money owed from Cross-Complainants to Cross-Defendants, which cannot be ascertained without a full audit and accounting of Cross-Defendants’ books and records.  (Id., ¶45.)             The cross-complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants made loans to Cross-Complainants.  (XC, ¶37.)  However, the allegations fail to allege if there is any special relationship other than that of a lender and borrower relationship.  Further, the promissory note is only made between Shepherds, LLC and Cross-Complainants, but not the Moving Cross-Defendants.  (See XC, Ex. A.)             In addition, an accounting cause of action is used when the plaintiff (or, in this case with the cross-complaint, a cross-complainant) is owed money.  Here, Cross-Complainants acknowledge that they owe money to Cross-Defendants.              For these reasons, the demurrer to the 1st cause of action is sustained.  The demurrer is not opposed and Cross-Complainants have not shown how, upon amendment, they are able to cure the defects in the cross-complaint.  As such, the demurrer to the 1st cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. C.    2nd cause of action for Declaratory ReliefA cause of action for declaratory relief is a remedy created by CCP § 1060 and it is pleaded if it: (1) sets forth facts showing the existence of an actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties and (2) requests that the rights and duties be adjudged.  (City of Tiburon v. Northwestern Pac. R.R. Co. (1970) 4 Cal.App.3d 160, 170; see CCP § 1060 [identifying the remedy of declaratory relief].)  If these requirements are met, the Court must declare the rights of the parties whether or not the facts alleged establish that the plaintiff is entitled to a favorable declaration.  (Id.)  Declaratory relief is a broad remedy, and the rule that a complaint is to be liberally construed is particularly applicable to one for declaratory relief.  (Id.)             In the 2nd cause of action, Cross-Complainants allege that a dispute has arisen between Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants as Cross-Complainants assert and Cross-Defendants deny that Cross-Complainants did not receive $2.1 million from Cross-Defendants.  (XC, ¶48.)  They allege that they made payments to repay the loans, but the payments have not been accounted for despite multiple demands made by Cross-Complainants.  (Id.)  They allege that they are being unfairly persecuted in this litigation for mismanagement of funds, breaches of fiduciary duty, and illegal lending practices engaged in by the Blocher Cross-Defendants.  (Id., ¶49.)             Moving Cross-Defendants argue that the amount of money received by Cross-Complainants and repaid by them is not the proper subject of a declaratory relief action as declaratory relief claims are not meant to redress past wrongs.  As currently alleged by Cross-Complainants, the declaratory relief cause of action essentially seeks a tally of what monies have been received and repaid, but does not necessarily involve determining the rights and duties of parties under a written instrument or contract.  In addition, allegations that there is a present controversy regarding whether Cross-Complainants are being “persecuted” is not the proper subject of a declaratory relief cause of action.            The demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. D.   3rd cause of action for Violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 In order to plead a claim under Business and Professions Code section 17200, there must be allegations demonstrating that the Defendants engaged in an unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice.  (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676-77.)  Further, to plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.  (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)In the 3rd cause of action, Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendants engaged in conduct that violate Business & Profession Code, § 17200.  (XC, ¶54.)  They allege that upon information and belief, Cross-Complainants have been forced to defend against a spurious lawsuit when they are not in breach of every promissory note and they have been charged excessive interest, which results in unlawful, deceptive, and unfair conduct and predatory lending practices by Cross-Defendants.  (Id., ¶55.) A violation of the unfair prong of section 17200 involves an examination of the impact of the business practice on its alleged victim balanced against the reasons, justifications and motives of the alleged wrongdoer.  (Searle v. Wyndham Int'l (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 1327, 1334.)  An unfair business practice occurs when it offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.  (Id.)  In general the unfairness prong has been used to enjoin deceptive or sharp practices.  (Id.)  However, the unfairness prong does not give the Courts a general license to review the fairness of contracts.  (Id.)  A review of the pleadings reveals no allegations that identify a particular business practice that offends established public policy or that is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, or substantially injurious to consumers.  Further, the allegations are based on “information and belief” that Cross-Complainants are forced to defend against a lawsuit.  This is not a proper claim for unfair business practices. A violation of the unlawful prong includes anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.  (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal. App. 4th 659, 676-677.)  A review of the pleadings reveals no allegations that identify a law, regulation, or statute and the particular business practices directed at Cross-Defendants that violated the identified law, regulation, or statute. A violation of the fraudulent prong of section 17200 can be shown with allegations that the fraudulent practice was likely to deceive members of the public.  (Schnall v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.)  The “fraud” prong “is unlike common law fraud or deception. A violation can be shown even if no one was actually deceived, relied upon the fraudulent practice, or sustained any damage. Instead, it is only necessary to show that members of the public are likely to be deceived.”  (Buller v. Sutter Health (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 981, 986.)  A review of the pleading reveals no allegations that identify a particular business practice that was a fraudulent practice likely to deceive the public. The demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is sustained. E.    4th cause of action for InterpleaderIn the 4th cause of action, Cross-Complainants in interpleader are in possession of the total amount of monies alleged, or $1.8 million, subject to credit for any usurious amounts of interest that was paid.  (XC, ¶ 58.)  They allege that Cross-Defendants in interpleader have made conflicting demands about Cross-Complainants in interpleader to the amounts owed to them and Cross-Complainants in interpleader are unable to determine the validity of the conflicting demands.  (Id., ¶¶59-60.)  They seek to deposit the full amounts of $1.8 million with the Court and a release from all Cross-Defendants.  (Id., ¶¶61-62.)             Moving Cross-Defendants argue that there are no double or multiple claims made by two or more persons which give rise to double or multiple liability against Cross-Complainants, such that an interpleader cause of action is improper.  (See CCP § 386(b).)  Moving Cross-Defendants argue that by way of the cross-complaint’s allegations, Cross-Complainants admit and acknowledge that they owe $1.8 million to Cross-Defendants. Based on the state of the pleadings at this time, multiple claims against Cross-Complainant for the funds are not being alleged.  The complaint filed by Plaintiffs (Moving Cross-Defendants) seek the recovery of monies from Defendants/Cross-Complainants.  No other cross-complaints or claims for money have been made against Defendants/Cross-Complainants.  As such, a cause of action for interpleader is not necessary at this time.The demurrer to the 4th cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. CONCLUSION AND ORDERCross-Defendants Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, and Carlos Zoller’s demurrer to the cross-complaint is sustained without leave to amend.  The motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.If Cross-Complainants retain counsel, this ruling does not foreclose the ability for Cross-Complainants to file a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 