 Case Number:  21STCV45366    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings Moving Party: Defendant Lyft, Inc.       Responding Party: None Tentative Ruling: GrantBACKGROUND On December 13, 2021, Plaintiff Marguerite Repola (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Lyft, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging that Defendant “carelessly slammed [a] vehicle’s trunk on Plaintiff’s head,” which occurred on December 13, 2019. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that she had legally contracted services from Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 7.)  On February 16, 2024, Defendant filed its answer to the complaint.  On April 29, 2024, this action was reassigned from the Honorable Lynne M. Hobbs to the Honorable Ian C. Fusselman sitting in Department T at Alhambra Courthouse effective May 13, 2024.  On September 20, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant unopposed Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings. Any opposition was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant seeks an order compelling arbitration and staying this action pending the completion of arbitration. Defendant contends that: (1) the Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”) governs the parties’ arbitration agreement; (2) the Court must compel Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant to arbitration; and (3) the Court should stay the proceedings against Defendant pending arbitration. OPPOSITION As of October 23, 2024, no opposition brief has been filed.   REPLY  As of October 18, 2024, no reply brief has been filed.  ANALYSIS I. Legal Standard/Applicable Law  “[W]hen an agreement provides that its enforcement shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party’s motion to compel arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) Under the FAA, “any arbitration agreement within its scope shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.” (Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.) An arbitration agreement that is subject to the FAA will be enforced if the following two factors are satisfied: (1) a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; and (2) the arbitration agreement encompasses the dispute at issue. (Ibid.) If both factors are met, the court must “enforce the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms.” (Ibid.)  “If any suit or proceeding be brought in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration, the court in which such suit is pending, upon being satisfied that the issue involved in such suit or proceeding is referable to arbitration under such an agreement, shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement, providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with such arbitration.” (9 U.S.C. § 3.) II. The Scope of the Terms of Service   Defendant seeks to compel arbitration pursuant to Defendant’s August 26, 2019 Terms of Service, to which Plaintiff agreed, according to Defendant’s Safety Program Lead, Paul McCachern (“McCachern”). (McCachern Decl., ¶¶ 1, 12, 15, 16; Ex. 1, 4.) The August 26, 2019 Terms of Service were in effect at the time of the alleged incident on December 13, 2019, as alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. (McCachern Decl., ¶ 14.) The agreement reads in pertinent part:  “These Terms of Service constitute a legally binding agreement (the “Agreement”) between you and Lyft, Inc., its parents, subsidiaries, representatives, affiliates, officers, and directors . . . governing your use of the Lyft application, website, and technology platform.” (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at p. 1.) “By entering into this Agreement, and/or by using or accessing the Lyft Platform you expressly acknowledge that you understand this Agreement (including the dispute resolution and arbitration provisions in Section 17) and accept all of its terms.” (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at p. 1.)  The Terms of Service, in section 17 therein, contains a Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”). (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17.) The Arbitration Agreement provides that Plaintiff and Defendant mutually agree to waive their respective rights to resolution of disputes in a court of law by a judge or jury and agree to resolve any dispute by arbitration. (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(a).) The Arbitration Agreement applies to “all Claims . . . between [Plaintiff] and Lyft, including [its] affiliates, subsidiaries, parents, successors and assigns, and each of [its] respective officers, directors, employees, agents, or shareholders.” (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(a).) The Arbitration Agreement defines “Claims” as all disputes between Plaintiff and Defendant. (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(a).) Such Claims “include, but are not limited to, any dispute, claim or controversy, whether based in past, present, or future events, arising out of or relating to: [the] Agreement and prior versions thereof . . ., the Lyft  Platform, [or] the Rideshare Platform . . .  and all . . . federal and state statutory common law claims.” (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(a).)  The Arbitration Agreement further provides that “[a]ll disputes concerning the arbitrability of a [c]laim . . . shall be decided by the arbitrator, except as expressly provided” in the Arbitration Agreement. (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(a).) The arbitration is to be administered by the American Arbitration Association. (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(b).) The Arbitration Agreement is “governed by the Federal Arbitration Act . . . .” (McCachern Decl., Ex. 4 at § 17(a).)III.  A Valid Arbitration Agreement Exists and it Covers the Dispute at Issue Initially, the Court finds that the FAA applies to the Arbitration Agreement as itis expressly stated that the FAA governs such agreement.   Further, the Court finds that a valid arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Defendant. Defendant presents evidence that Plaintiff expressly consented to its Terms of Service—which includes the Arbitration Agreement—on five separate occasions. (McCachern Decl., ¶ 12.) Such consent was given both prior to and after the subject accident. (McCachern Decl., ¶ 12.)  Next, the Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement covers the dispute at issue in this litigation. The complaint arises from Plaintiff’s use of Defendant’s rideshare services. (McCachern Decl., ¶ 13.) The Arbitration Agreement provides that any claims arising from use of Defendant’s platform are subject to binding arbitration. Thus, Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the Arbitration Agreement.  In sum, the Court finds that a valid arbitration agreement exists and that such agreement covers the claims asserted against Defendant in this action. Given that Plaintiff failed to oppose the instant motion, the Court deems the lack of opposition as “a consent to the granting of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c).)  RULING  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings.  The Court STAYS this action pending the completion of arbitration pursuant to the terms of the Arbitration Agreement. (9 U.S.C. § 3.)  The Court sets a post-arbitration status conference for October 27, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.   Defendant Lyft, Inc. is ordered to give notice.  