  Case Number:  19STCV31055    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 25, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: VACATED
                                                           
CASE:                         Olanna Taskey v. Benjamin Boston, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV31055            
 
MOTION FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Olenna Taskey
 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Benjamin Boston, Lexington Plaza LLC, Roxbury Lane, L.P., Kathy Small d/b/a
L.A. Residence, and Elliot Hyland
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a tort action for battery, trespass, and negligence that was
filed on September 3, 2019. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Hyland was
employed by the other Defendants as a property manager, and, while so employed,
sexually harassed and physically attacked Plaintiff, who was a tenant at a
property owned by Defendants.
 
Plaintiff moves for issue and
monetary sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
counter-request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
Plaintiff moves for issue and
monetary sanctions. 
 
Legal Standard for Nonmonetary Sanctions
 
The Court has the authority to impose sanctions against a
party that engages in any misuse of the discovery process (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030),
including “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d).) A party engaging in this conduct
may be subject to sanctions including monetary sanctions (Code Civ Proc. §
2023.030(a)), evidence sanctions (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(c)) or terminating
sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  “[T]rial courts
should select sanctions tailored to the harm caused by the misuse of the
discovery process and should not exceed what is required to protect the party
harmed by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Dept. of Forestry &
Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191, disapproved of on
other grounds in Presbyterian Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493.) Sanctions are generally imposed in
an incremental approach. (Id.) Generally, the appropriate sanctions when
a party repeatedly and willfully fails to provide evidence to the opposing
party as required by the discovery rules is preclusion of that evidence from
the trial. (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th
377, 390, disapproved of on other grounds by Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021)
11 Cal.5th 204.)
 
In considering a motion for
nonmonetary sanctions, the Court is to attempt to “tailor the sanction to the
harm caused by the withheld discovery.” (Collisson
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1618-1619.)  
 
[T]he question before this court is not
whether the trial court should have imposed a lesser sanction; rather, the
question is whether the trial court abused its discretion by imposing the
sanction it chose. [Citation.] Moreover, imposition of a lesser sanction would
have permitted [defendants] to benefit from their stalling tactics. [Citation.]
The trial court did not abuse its discretion by tailoring the sanction to the
particular abuse.
 
(Id. at 1620.)
 
Issue Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests unspecified issue sanctions on the basis that Defendants have
repeatedly failed to produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production. Not only does Plaintiff fail to specify the exact sanctions sought
in direct violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040, she also provides
no evidence of Defendant’s failure to produce documents. Plaintiff has not
provided the discovery requests nor responses at issue in her moving papers
such that the Court could determine whether the Defendants have, in fact,
complied with their discovery obligations. Plaintiff has therefore failed to
offer adequate evidence to justify the extraordinary remedy of issue sanctions.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions against Defendants in the amount of $13,748.00 in
attorney’s fees. As Plaintiff has not adequately demonstrated sanctionable
conduct by Defendants, sanctions are not warranted under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030(a). Moreover, Plaintiff has not demonstrated why
she, a self-represented litigant, is entitled to reimbursement of attorney’s
fees as monetary sanctions. If Plaintiff has secured legal representation, that
attorney must appear as counsel for Plaintiff in this action for Plaintiff to
recover attorney’s fees on their behalf. 
 
Defendants’ Counter-Request for Sanctions
 
Defendants,
in opposition, request monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 128.5 and 128.7. Both statutes authorize sanctions for the filing of a
motion in bad faith. The safe harbor provision of section
128.5 provides: 
 
If the alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing
of a written motion or the filing and service of a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or
appropriately corrected, a notice of motion shall be served as provided in
Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court, unless 21
days after service of the motion or any other period as the court may
prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately
corrected. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(f)(1)(B) (bold emphasis added).) The
corresponding provision in section 128.7 provides: 
 
A motion for sanctions under this section shall be made
separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the specific
conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of motion shall be served as
provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court
unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, or any other period as the
court may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention,
allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7(c)(1).) Defendants make no
effort to demonstrate compliance with either safe harbor provision and are
therefore not entitled to monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
counter-request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 25,
2023                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 