 Case Number:  22STCV23140    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 25, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: March 5, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Berenice Ceja v. Rahn Industries, Inc.,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV23140            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET THREE); REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Berenice Ceja
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Rahn
Industries, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on July 19,
2022. Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected to extensive sexual harassment
and retaliation for complaining about the harassment to which she was
subjected, culminating in her termination.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to Requests for Production (Set Three) propounded to Defendant Rahn Industries,
Inc.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production (Set Three) is GRANTED.
Defendant Rahn Industries, Inc. is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant
responses without objections within 30 days of the date of this
order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $524.77 against
Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within
10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to Requests for Production (Set Three) propounded to Defendant Rahn Industries,
Inc.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand is directed fails to respond under Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b), a
party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the
inspection demand. A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is
required. All that must be shown is that a set of requests for production was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response has been served. (Leach
v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to Requests for Production (Set Three) propounded to Defendant Rahn Industries,
Inc. According to Plaintiff’s counsel, the requests were served via email on
May 4, 2023. (Declaration of Guile Gomez ISO Mot. ¶ 2, Exhs. 1-2.) In
opposition, Defendant states that the requests were not properly served because,
although the documents were emailed to Defendant’s attorneys, Tristan A. Mullis
and Enoch Cheung, they were not emailed to their legal assistant, Tonisha Ford,
pursuant to the agreement between the parties to accept service by email. (See
Declaration of Shannon Finley ISO Opp. Exhs. D, E.) Thus, Defendant argues that
service was not complete until June 9, 2023. Regardless, it is undisputed that at
the time this motion was filed on July 24, 2023, responses had not been served.
(Gomez Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
Defendant concedes that it served
late responses on October 10, 2023. (Declaration of Michelle Perez-Yanez ISO
Opp. Exh. G.) Ordinarily, service of discovery responses, even untimely, would
moot this motion. However, Defendant admits that it served responses with
objections to four of the requests for production. As responses were not timely
served, all objections have been waived. (Code Civ. Proc. §2031.300(a).)
Nevertheless, Defendant requests in its opposition that the Court relieve
Defendant from waiver of those objections, arguing that the responses are
otherwise substantially code-compliant and that the failure to timely serve
responses was the result of a calendaring error arising from heavy staff
turnover at the firm of Defendant’s counsel, Pettit Kohn Ingrassia Lutz &
Dolin, P.C. (See Declaration of Shannon R. Finley ISO Opp. ¶ 10.) Defendant
contends that the failure to serve responses until October 10, 2023, was a
result of a second calendaring error, this time involving a failure to
calendar the motion. (Perez-Yanez Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant’s request in its
opposition for relief from waiver of objections is improper, as Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.300 requires that such a request be made on motion,
not in an opposition, and no such motion was ever filed with this Court. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) 
 
Defendant’s responses are not
code-compliant, and Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling responses without
objections. 
 
//
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally, in
the amount of $1,424.77.
 
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a
misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under California Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that
one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising
that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”
 
            Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to requests for production of
documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.300 (c); 2031.310(h).)
However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $1,424.77. This request is based on one hour of
attorney time at a rate of $450.00 per hour, out of two hours actually billed,
plus two additional anticipated hours, plus $74.77 in reservation and filing
fees. (Gomez Decl. ¶¶ 10, 14.) The Court declines to award fees for hours not
actually incurred and will therefore award reduced sanctions in the amount of $524.77.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production (Set Three)
is GRANTED. Defendant Rahn Industries, Inc. is ordered to provide verified,
code-compliant responses without objections within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $524.77 against
Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within
10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 25, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 