 Case Number:  24STCV03765    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 3, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE:  October
27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Kathryn Bouskill v.
Farmers Group, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV03765
 





















 
PLAINTIFF
KATTHRYN BOUSKILL’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Kathryn Bouskill
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Farmers
Insurance Exchange 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
This is an insurance bad faith action.  Plaintiff
Kathryn Bouskill (Plaintiff) had a homeowner’s insurance policy covering her
home with defendants Farmers Group, Inc. (FGI) and Farmers Insurance Exchange
(FIE) (collectively, Defendants).  Plaintiff’s
house suffered substantial damage from wind-driven rain.  Defendants inspected the home and estimated
the actual cash value of the damage was $79,027.56.  However, the true cost of repair was over
four times higher.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants handled, investigated, and adjusted her claim with the intent to
minimize the water-damaged related property losses.  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants
underpaid and delayed payment of her claim, and failed to respond to
Plaintiff’s inquiries, among other things. 
This action followed.
 
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendants with Request
for Production of Documents (RPD), Set One. 
As relevant here, FIE provided objection-only responses to RPD Nos.
21-25.  Plaintiff took issue with the
responses.
 
On October 3, 2024, the parties participated in an Informal
Discovery Conference regarding the discovery dispute.  The issues were not resolved.  The court directed the parties to meet and
confer regarding outstanding issues. 
Plaintiff was ordered to file a Notice of Outcome of the meet and confer.
 
 
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice re: Informal
Discovery Conference Hearing.  Plaintiff
states the court sided with Plaintiff and expressed the view that adjuster
performance evaluations are potentially relevant, particularly as to
information the evaluations may contain about the timeliness of the adjusters’
response to communications from policyholders, and that the information
contained therein is not sensitive.
 
On October 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Outcome.  Plaintiff states the parties continue to
disagree over production requests concerning performance evaluations of
adjusters.  Plaintiff agreed to limit the
requests to the adjusters’ performance as they relate to the handling of
homeowners insurance claims and other metrics that relate to customer service,
such as
responsiveness to policyholder communications.  Plaintiff also proposed to limit the requests
to performance evaluations on or after January 1, 2020.  FIE did not agree to these limitations. 
 
On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents.  Plaintiff seeks FIE’s further response to
production requests Nos. 21-25 and sanctions against FIE and its counsel.
 
On November 18, 2024, FIE filed an opposition.
 
On November 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to requests for
production of documents¿where an answer to the requests are evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ A motion to
compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿ 
Notice of the motion must be given
within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)¿ The motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
¿¿¿¿         Finally, California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿
 
Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or
opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection demands,
the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (h).)¿
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions
against a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery
process, monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the
‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the
attorney's actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an
attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,”
the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery
abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an
attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the
burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend
that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni,
at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks a further response to production requests
nos. 21-25.  The discovery requests seek
all performance evaluations, performance reviews, performance development
summaries, and other evaluations for Alexis Williams (No.
21), Zechariah Millette (No. 22), Lindsey Speigl (No. 23), Stacie Byrd (No.
24), and Michael Sarver (No. 25), for the time period from January 1, 2018, to
the present.  Pursuant to Plaintiff’s
proposed limitation, the requests are limited to performance evaluations for
the time period from January 1, 2020, to the present.
 
In response, FIE objected on the grounds that the requests
call for information and materials not reasonably calculated to lead to
discovery of admissible evidence and which are protected from disclosure by third
party privacy rights.
 
The court disagrees with FIE’s objection.  The adjusters (Williams, Millette, Speigl,
Byrd, and Sarver) are FIE’s employees.  Although they are not defendants in this
action, their conduct in the handling of Plaintiff’s insurance claim and FIE’s
knowledge of that conduct is a key component of this litigation.  Plaintiff alleges the adjusters mishandled
her claim, which includes not responding to her communications about the
claim.  If this conduct was noted in the
adjusters’ performance evaluations, FIE may well have known or should have
known that these adjusters were not reasonably handling claims.  Contrary to FIE’s position, the requests are
directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. 
Further, Plaintiff states there is a protective order in place, which
obviates or mitigates any concerns of the intrusion into the adjusters’
privacy.  A further response is
warranted.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against FIE and its
counsel.  Given that the requests concern
the privacy of FIE’s employees, the court finds FIE opposed this motion with
substantial justification.  The court
declines to impose sanctions.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED. 
Pursuant to Plaintiff’s proposal, the discovery requests are limited to
performance evaluations for the adjusters from January 1, 2020, to the
present.  Defendant Farmers Insurance
Exchange is ordered to provide a further response to the modified discovery
requests within 30 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   December 3,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 