  Case Number:  20STCV47798    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  39 James Copping v.
Burt M. Arnold, et al.
Case No.
20STCV47798
Demurrer
Case Management
Conference
 
            Plaintiff
James Copping (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented party, filed this action
against Defendants Burt M. Arnold and BMA Securities, LLC (collectively,
“Defendants”).  Plaintiff alleges that he
is a stockbroker and provides financial, securities and investment services and
advice to clients.  (Second Amended
Complaint, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff alleges that
he worked for Defendants, earning significant “commissions, revenue and
income.”  (Id., ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have
refused to pay him owed commissions since January 15, 2020.  (Ibid.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff asserts causes of action for accounting, fraud, and
common counts.  Defendants demur to the
second cause of action, fraud.   
 
            Plaintiff
must allege fraud with particularity. 
“This means: (1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is
insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal
construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that
is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams &
Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) 
The elements of promissory fraud are as follows: (1) Defendant made a
misrepresentation, i.e., a false promise; (2) Defendant knew the promise was
false when it was made; (3) Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiff, i.e.,
induce Plaintiff’s reliance on the false promise; (4) Plaintiff relied on the
false promise and the reliance was justifiable; and (5) Plaintiff was
damaged.  (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
 
There are two problems with
Plaintiff’s case.  First, as discussed,
to state a claim for promissory fraud, Plaintiff must allege specific factual
circumstances beyond a contractual breach, which reflect Defendant’s
contemporaneous intent not to perform.  (Hills
Transportation Co. v. Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d
702, 707.)  In this case, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants promised to pay commissions owed, but failed to do
so.  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶
15-16.)  Plaintiff does not allege
specific facts to show that Defendants did not intend to pay him the
commissions when they promised to do so. 
Second, there are no factual allegations suggesting that Plaintiff
relied on the false promise to his detriment. 
Plaintiff does not explain how his reliance on the allegedly false
promise resulted in “loss [of] income and earnings” or caused other economic
damages.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants “[i]ssued a false and fraudulent 2020 1099 Tax Form to Plaintiff
missing major wages and earnings made by Plaintiff.”  (Id., ¶ 17.) 
Again, these allegations reflect only a failure to pay wages, because
there are no facts suggesting fraud.  
 
Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff waived the right to pursue his second cause of action because he
failed to amend his complaint in a timely manner after the Court granted
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings.  The Court need not reach this argument in
order to resolve the motion.  
 
Finally, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff cannot satisfy the monetary threshold to proceed in an unlimited
civil court without the fraud claim.  The
complaint alleges that Defendants owe Plaintiff “the sum of approximately
$25,000, with legal interest thereon from the date of breach, on account
services and work done on their behalf and at their request.”  (Id., ¶ 23.) 
Defendants did not file a motion for reclassification so the Court need
not reach this issue at this stage.
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
1.         The
Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action.  
 
2.         The
Court denies leave to amend.  Plaintiff
has had multiple opportunities to amend, to no avail. 
 
3.         The
Court sets the following dates:
 
            Final
Status Conference:        July 25, 2025,
at 9:00 a.m. 
 
            Trial:                                       August 5,
2025, at 9:30 a.m. 
 
The parties shall prepare and file joint trial documents on
or before July 18, 2025.  The parties
shall disclose all witnesses they intend to call in their respective
case-in-chief, and identify and produce all exhibits they intend to introduce
in their respect case-in-chief, on or before July 18, 2025.  Jury fees shall be posted on or before
February 29, 2024, or the parties shall waive jury.  The parties shall follow all courtroom
procedures for Department #39.
 
            4.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
  
 