  Case Number:  22PSCV00789    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Lorena  Wenger v. Emanate Queen of the Valley Hospital, et al.  Motion  for Summary Judgment of Defendant Sheri Pham, M.D.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment of Defendant  Sheri Pham, M.D.                Dr. Pham is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a medical malpractice case. On June 28, 2022, plaintiff Lorena  Wenger, successor-in-interest to Salvador Velazquez (Plaintiff) filed this  action. On September 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against defendants Emanate Queen of the Valley Hospital (Queen  of the Valley), Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park (Kindred Hospital), Rambod  Amani-Yazdi, M.D., Azhar Haq, M.D, Sheri Pham, M.D. (Dr. Pham), Radhika  Tulpule, M.D., and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for wrongful  death and statutory elder abuse. Plaintiff also named Maria Velazquez, Salvador  Velazquez, Juan Velazuez, Martha Mercado, Socorro Velazquez, Monica Cedillo,  and Jesus Velazquez as nominal defendants.  On February 20, 2024, Dr. Pham moved for summary judgment. On  April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition.[1]  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Undisputed Material Facts  Decedent Salvador Velazquez (Decedent) was admitted to Queen of  the Valley on January 19, 2022, at which time he consulted Dr. Pham regarding  renal failure. (SSF 1.) Dr. Pham prescribed treatment to Decedent for  approximately one week when he was transferred to Kindred Hospital. (SSF 2-9.)  Dr. Pham continued to prescribe treatment to Decedent following his transfer to  Kindred Hospital. (SSF 9-12.) Starting on February 2, 2022, Dr. Pham first  discussed dialysis treatment with Decedent’s family on multiple occasions, but  they did not consent to it until February 9, 2022. (SSF 13-18.) Dialysis  treatment commenced on February 9, 2022 and continued until Decedent’s death on  February 22, 2022. (SSF 19-24.)  Decedent’s cause of death was pneumonia, COVID-19, and diabetes  mellitus Type II. (SSF 25.) Dr. Keith L. Klein, Dr. Pham’s expert, opines that  Dr. Pham’s treatment of Decedent complied with the standard of care. (SSF 26.)  Dr. Klein further opines to a reasonable degree of medical certainty that  nothing Dr. Pham did or did not do caused Decedent’s death, as dialysis was  never going to save his life, such that earlier dialysis would not have made a  difference in Decedent’s ultimate death. (SSF 27.)  Analysis – Wrongful Death/Medical Malpractice  “The elements  of Plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action allege ‘(1) the duty of the  professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his  profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a  proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting  injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's  negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg (2018) 25  Cal.App.5th 234, 238 fn. 3.) “As in medical malpractice cases, standards of due  care and competence are commonly established by the generally accepted  practices and procedures within the professional community. [Citations.]” (Milligan  v. Hearing Aid Dispensers Examining Com. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1006.)              Dr. Pham contends no triable issue  of material fact exists to support a claim for wrongful death against Dr. Pham.  Dr. Pham contends there is no evidence to show that Dr. Pham failed to comply  with the applicable standard of care with respect to Decedent. Dr. Pham  contends the undisputed evidence shows Dr. Pham complied with the applicable  standard of care at all times.  Dr. Pham cites the expert testimony provided by Dr. Klein to  conclusively establish that she met the applicable standard of care. Dr. Pham  contends the standard of care did not require Dr. Pham to commence dialysis for  Decedent at any point during Decedent’s stay at Queen of the Valley, as  dialysis is indicated for patients with Stage 5 kidney disease, which Decedent  did not have during his stay at Queen of the Valley.  Dr. Pham also contends that the care and treatment provided to  Decedent during his stay at Kindred Hospital also complied with the applicable  standard of care in all respects. Dr. Pham contends to have appropriately  monitored Decedent’s deteriorating condition and timely discussed the  initiation of dialysis with Decedent’s family. Dr. Pham contends the family was  initially resistant to the suggestion of dialysis treatment. Dr. Pham contends  she recognized in a timely fashion Decedent’s need for dialysis treatment, that  she appropriately communicated the recommendations to Decedent’s family, and  that dialysis treatment was initiated in a timely manner once Decedent’s family  consented and after the Decedent was deemed stable for placement of a dialysis  catheter.  Dr. Pham further contends she is entitled to summary judgment  because none of her alleged actions caused Decedent’s death. Dr. Pham contends  that Decedent was critically ill with other problems, such as COVID, sepsis,  respiratory failure, and failure of his major organs. Dr. Pham contends  dialysis was never going to save Decedent’s life, and an earlier, more  aggressive start to the dialysis treatment was not going to make a difference  in Decedent’s ultimate outcome.  The Court finds Dr. Pham has met her moving burden. “Expert  evidence in a malpractice suit is conclusive as to the proof of the prevailing  standard of skill and learning in the locality and of the propriety of  particular conduct by the practitioner in particular instances because such  standard and skill is not a matter of general knowledge and can only be  supplied by expert testimony.” (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121  Cal.App.3d 406, 412, quoting Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988,  999.)  Dr. Klein’s expert testimony clearly provides that Dr. Pham did  not breach the applicable standard of care within the relevant professional  community. (See Klein Decl., ¶ 17.) Dr. Klein states that Decedent did not  require dialysis during his stay at Queen of the Valley, as Decedent did not  have Stage 5 kidney disease then. (Klein Decl., ¶ 20.) Dr. Klein indicates that  Dr. Pham appropriately monitored Decedent’s condition and initiated timely  discussions with Decedent’s family to start dialysis treatment, which they  initially resisted, due to no fault of Dr. Pham. (Klein Decl., ¶ 22.) Dr. Klein  states that Dr. Pham appropriately followed up with Decedent’s family regarding  the dialysis treatment, and that treatment was timely initiated once Decedent’s  family consented and after Decedent was considered stable for placement of a  dialysis catheter. (Klein Decl., ¶ 23.) Dr. Klein also opines that dialysis was  never going to save Decedent’s life due to his being critically ill on other  grounds, such as COVID, sepsis, respiratory failure, and failure of his major  organs, and that an earlier, more aggressive start to dialysis would not have  saved his life. (Klein Decl., ¶ 24.)  Accordingly, Dr. Pham has established the absence of a triable  issue of material fact. The burden of proof now shifts to Plaintiff to  establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff expressly declined to oppose Dr. Pham’s motion for  summary judgment. (Notice of Non-opposition (4/3/24).) Accordingly, Plaintiff  failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to Dr.  Pham, and the Court finds that Dr. Pham is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.[2] CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment of Defendant  Sheri Pham, M.D.                 Dr. Pham is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     