

Hearing Date:             October
16, 2024
Case Name:                Young, Spiegel & Hosp LLC
v. Saum Sharafshahi
Case No.:                    24STCP02454
Motion:                       Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Appoint Arbitrator
Moving
Party:             Petitioner Young,
Spiegel & Hosp LLC

Responding Party:      None


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Petition to compel arbitration
is granted.
 

 
On August 5, 2024, Petitioner
Young, Spiegel & Hosp LLC (“YSH”) filed a Petition to Compel Binding
Arbitration and for Court Appointment of Arbitrator (“Petition”) against Respondent
Saum Sharafshahi (“Sharafshahi”).
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the
petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists;
(2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for
revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the
arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting¿rulings on common issues.
 
When seeking to compel arbitration, the
initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by prepondernace of evidence.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It is sufficient for the moving
party to produce a copy of the arbitration agreement or set forth the
agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The
burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.) 
Subsequently, the moving party must establish with the preponderance of
admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then weighs all the evidence
submitted and uses its discretion to make a final determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical
Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.)
 
If the court orders arbitration, then the court shall
stay the action until arbitration is completed. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
According to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6:
 
If the arbitration agreement provides a method of
appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed.  If the arbitration agreement does not provide
a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek
arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of
appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed.  In the absence of an agreed method, or if the
agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator
appointed fails to act and his or her successor has not been appointed, the
court, on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the
arbitrator.
 
When a petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral
arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons from lists of persons
supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or obtained from a
governmental agency concerned with arbitration or private disinterested
association concerned with arbitration.  The
parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is
sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court
jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the
nominees.  If the parties fail to select
an arbitrator within the five-day period, the court shall appoint the
arbitrator from the nominees.
 
Discussion
 
            Around February 20, 2024, Petitioner
YSH and Respondent Sharafshahi entered into a written agreement whereby YSH was
to deliver legal services to Respondent in exchange for monetary
compensation.  (Pet. ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  According to Paragraph 12 of the
Retainer Agreement, Respondent was entitled to nonbinding arbitration of any
fee dispute within 30 days of notice by Petitioner.  (Pet.
¶ 2, Ex. A at ¶ 12.)  Petitioner
states that around June 28, 2024, YSH provided Respondent with a Notice of
Right to Arbitrate, advising him of his right to arbitrate the fee dispute
pursuant to Business and Professions Code sections 6200-6206.  (Pet. ¶ 4, Ex. B.)  Sharafshahi did not respond to
Petitioner’s letter and Petitioner believes he never exercised his right to
submit the dispute to nonbinding arbitration within the 30 days permitted by
the Business and Professions Code.  (Id.
at ¶ 5.)
 
            Furthermore,
the arbitration provision provides that, in the event Respondent declines to accept nonbinding arbitration
within the 30-day period, both Petitioner and Respondent are entitled to
binding arbitration.  (Pet. ¶ 2, Ex. A at
¶ 13.)  According to the provision,
binding arbitration of any dispute shall be subject to the rules of JAMS.  (Id., Ex. A at ¶ 13.)  Moreover, the arbitrator shall be a retired
California Family Law Superior or Appellate Court Judge, the arbitration will held
in the County of Los Angeles, and the arbitrator’s fees shall be equally
apportioned.  (Id., Ex. A. at ¶
13(a)-(b).)
 
            Petitioner requests that the
Court issue an order compelling Respondent to arbitrate the fee dispute.  (Petition., p. 3.)  Petitioner also requests that the Court
appoint one of the following retired judges to act as an arbitrator: Honorable
Christine Byrd, Honorable Jackson Lucky, Honorable Linda Miller, or Honorable
Sheila Prell Sonenshine.  (Pet. ¶ 6.) 
The Notice and Petition were served on Respondent by substituted
service on September 18, 2024.  (9-25-24
Proof of Service.)
 
            The Court
finds that Petitioner has demonstrated that a valid arbitration agreement
exists, the right to compel arbitration has not been waived by Petitioner,
there are no grounds for revocation of the agreement, or any pending
litigation.  Accordingly, the Court
grants Petitioner’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and stays proceedings pending
arbitration.
 
            Petitioner
also requests that the Court appoint an arbitrator from the list of retired
judges presented.  Here, the parties have
not agreed on a specific method of appointing the arbitrator, thus, the Court
may appoint the arbitrator.  Pursuant to
section 1281.6, the Court nominates the Honorable Christine Byrd, Honorable
Jackson Lucky, Honorable Linda Miller, Honorable Sheila Prell Sonenshine, and
Honorable Amy M. Pellman as potential arbitrators in this action.  If the parties do not agree on an arbitrator
within ten days of receipt of notice, the Court will, upon written notice of
this fact from Plaintiff, appoint an arbitrator from this list.
 
Conclusion
 
            The Motion
to Compel Arbitration, filed by Petitioner Young, Spiegel & Hosp LLC, is granted.  The Court stays the proceedings pending
arbitration.
 
            The Court
also nominates the Honorable Christine Byrd, Honorable Jackson Lucky, Honorable
Linda Miller, Honorable Sheila Prell Sonenshine, and Honorable Amy M. Pellman as
potential arbitrators in this action.  If
the parties do not agree on an arbitrator within ten days of receipt of notice,
the Court will appoint an arbitrator from this list.
 