 Case Number:  23CMCV00700    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  A  23CMCV00700   Evelin Quintero v. Wily Oris Barrios, et al. Tuesday, April   16, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING  DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR IMPOSITION OF MONETARY SANCTIONS UNDER CODE CIV. PROC., 128.7  AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND COUNSEL   I.         BACKGROUND       The  first amended complaint filed on October 24, 2023, alleges that Plaintiff  suffered injury resulting from uninhabitable conditions in leased premises  owned by Defendants. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant breached a  “lease-to-buy” Agreement granting Plaintiff exclusive rights to the property  (the “Castlegate property”) with an option to purchase for one year. Plaintiff  alleges 22 causes of action for contract-related claims, eviction-related  torts, fraud-related claims, personal injury claims, and statutory violations.   II.       ARGUMENTS       Defendant,  Wily Osiris Barios (“Defendant” or “Barios”), contends that the 18th  cause of action for “denial of pre-move out inspection” in violation of Civil  Code section 1950.5 subd. (f) which was supposed to occur on July 5, 2023, is  frivolous. Defendant no longer owned the Castlegate property on that date, a  fact that Plaintiff omits. The intentional omission violates the duty to  disclose all relevant facts and law to the court. Plaintiff pursues this  litigation in bad faith with the aim of coercing and intimidating Defendant.        In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Court overruled Barrios’ demurrer to the  18th cause of action. Barrios’ contention that he didn’t own the Castlegate  property at the time of the required inspection is a disputed issue of fact  which is overcome by the allegations. Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s evidence.       In  reply, Defendant argues that the Court should take judicial notice of the grant  deed establishing that Defendant did not own the property at the relevant time  period, which demonstrates that the 18th cause of action lacks  merit.   III.     LEGAL STANDARDS       An  attorney who signs and presents a pleading to the court certifies that the  pleading has factual and legal merit.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 128.7.) The attorney certifies that the pleading is not being  presented primarily for an improper purpose such as to harass or to cause  unnecessary delay, or increase in the cost of litigation and that the claims  have evidentiary support or would likely have evidentiary support after a  reasonable investigation. (Id. subd. (b).) The court may impose  sanctions for violations of subdivision (b). (Id.)        Defendant  has complied with the statute’s “safe harbor” provision by first serving the  motion on Plaintiff and allowing 21 days for Plaintiff to withdraw the improper  pleading and avoid sanctions. (Id. at subd. (c)(1).) At the  end of the waiting period, Defendant may file the motion for sanctions if  Plaintiff does not withdraw the offending pleading. (Id.) The proof of  service reflects that Defendant served the motion on December 7, 2023, and subsequently  filed this motion February 15, 2024. Plaintiff did not withdraw the 18th  cause of action.          IV.     DISCUSSION       The  18th cause of action alleges that at the time Plaintiff signed the “lease  to buy” agreement on June 28, 2020, Barrios was the owner of the Castlegate property.  (FAC, ¶ 27.) Since the time Plaintiff became a tenant, Defendant Barrios was  the landlord. (FAC, ¶ 283.) Plaintiff alleges that Barrios, among other  defendants, failed to comply with their statutory obligation to notify the Plaintiff  in writing of the tenant’s option to request a pre-move out inspection. (FAC, ¶  281.) Defendant, Uriel Rivera, and Plaintiff subsequently agreed to schedule a  pre-move out inspection for July 5, 2023. (FAC, ¶ 282.) However, Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants locked her out of the property on July 2, 2023, and was  prevented entry onto the property from that date forward (FAC, ¶ 283-284; Civ.  Code, § 1950.5 subd. (f)(1).)        Defendant  argues that Plaintiff does not allege Barrios was an owner or landlord of the  property, and a recorded deed establishes that Barrios had transferred  his ownership in the property before the date of  the inspection. (Mot. 8:17-18.) The first contention is not supported by the  allegations of the pleading as referenced above.       With  respect to Defendant’s second contention that he no longer owned the property  at the time of the inspection, Barrios’s counsel, Steve Lopez, submits a deed that  Barrios signed and recorded on February 23, 2023, (before the date of  inspection) purporting to transfer the real property from Barrios to Rivera. Defense  counsel has not provided foundation for his personal knowledge of the deed’s contents  or facts to support authentication, except to assert it is true and  correct.  (Lopez Decl. ¶ 2. (RJN, Ex. 1,  1a.) Plaintiff’s objections to Mr. Lopez’s declaration and the submitted  recorded deeds are sustained on those grounds.        While  the court has discretion to take judicial notice of documents, including a  recorded deed, Defendant does not request it; even if Defendant had made the  request, such notice is permitted as to those facts that cannot be reasonably  subject to dispute. (Herrera  v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196  Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)        Defendant  argues in reply, that the court can take judicial notice of the “legal effect”  of the deed, and that a grant of real property is conclusive against the  grantor. (Reply 4:13-4; 5:1-5.) Defendant contends that judicial notice of the  grant deed settles the purported dispute that since Defendant had previously  divested his interest in the property, he did not owe a duty of inspection to  Plaintiff.  "A court may take  judicial notice of something that cannot reasonably be controverted, even if it  negates an express allegation of the pleading. This includes recorded  deeds." “ (Poseidon Development, Inc. v. Woodland Lane Estates, LLC  (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1106, citing Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern  Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 457, 468–469 and Maryland Casualty Co. v. Reeder (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 961, 977.)       Judicial  notice is improper under the circumstances because Defendant’s purported  transfer of ownership is reasonably subject to dispute.  Defendant’s deposition testimony controverts  the purported “legal effect” of the recorded deed. Defendant controverted his  own testimony at his deposition, claiming that he both did and did not have an  interest in the property as he never purchased it. (Opp. Ex. 2, 42:8-43:1.)        Defendant  contends in reply that the deposition testimony and Defendant’s credibility are  irrelevant to any issue raised in the complaint. (Reply 6:10-14.) The testimony  is relevant, however, to whether the court should exercise its discretion to  take judicial notice of the “legal effect” of the deed. As Defendant’s  ownership of the property at the time of the inspection is reasonably subject  to dispute, judicial notice is improper.        The  existence of the deed alone does not provide a basis for imposing sanctions  against Plaintiff. Defendant has not proffered evidence that Plaintiff asserted  the 18th cause of action “primarily” for an improper purpose  such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay, or increase the cost of  litigation, or that the claims do not have evidentiary support or are unlikely  to have evidentiary support after a reasonable investigation. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 128.7 subd. (b).)     V.      CONCLUSION       Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion  for imposition of sanctions pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7 is DENIED. 