 Case Number:  21STLC07288    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  25 Anne Lee v. Alfonso JaureguiDefendant Alonso Jauregui’s Motion to Vacate  Entry of Default Judgment is GRANTED. BACKGROUND  On October 6, 2021, Plaintiff Anne  Lee (“Plaintiff”) brought an action against Defendant Alonso Jauregui  (“Defendant”) arising out of an alleged motor vehicle accident that took place  on December 11, 2019.   On February 3, 2022, pursuant to  Plaintiff’s request, default was entered against Defendant. (2-3- 22 Request  for Entry of Default.) On May 18, 2023, default judgment was entered for  Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $15,824.22. (5-18-23 Default  Judgment.)   On June 6, 2023, Defendant filed a  Motion to Vacate Entry of Default Judgment Against Defendant. Defendant  withdrew the Motion on June 14, 2023.   On June 20, 2023, Defendant filed a  Motion to Vacate Entry of Default Judgment Against Defendant. Plaintiff filed  an Opposition on July 19, 2023. On August 1, 2023, the Court noted that  Defendant had filed a defective Notice of Motion, listing the Stanley Mosk  Courthouse address, instead of the Spring Street Courthouse address, where the  hearing on the Motion was to take place. (8-1-23 Minute Order.) The Court also  noted that Defendant had not filed proof that the moving papers had been served  on Plaintiff. (Ibid.) For these reasons, the Court continued the hearing on the  Motion and ordered Defendant to correct these deficiencies. (Ibid.) On August  29, 2023, the Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing on the Motion to  September 12, 2023. (8-29-23 Minute Order.)    On September 5, 2023, Defendant  filed the instant Motion to Vacate Entry of Default Judgment Against Defendant  (“Motion”) with a reservation date for October 4, 2023.  Plaintiff filed an Opposition on September  18, 2023. Defendant filed a reply on September 20, 2023.    Given that the Defendant did not  file a corrected Notice of Motion and Proof of Service in response to the  Court’s August 1, 2023 Order and filed the instant Motion with a reservation  date of October 4, 2023 instead, on September 12, 2023, the Court placed  Defendant’s August 1, 2023 Motion off calendar.   (9-12-23 Minute Order.)      MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Defendant’s  moving papers are supported by the declaration of his attorney, Gary C. Harvey  (“Harvey”), who is practicing at Martinez, Dieterich & Zarcone Legal Group  (“MDZ”).  Mr. Harvey states that MDZ is  in-house counsel for Defendant’s insurance carrier, Loya Casualty Insurance  Company (“Loya”).  (Mot.,  Harvey Decl., ¶ 4.)  Mr. Harvey  attests that once a Complaint is filed against Loya in California, MDZ  represents the respective defendant and is responsible for monitoring the Court  docket to determine whether and when Defendant was properly served.  (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 4.)  Further, Mr. Harvey states that between  February 2022 and March 2023, almost half of the attorneys and staff left MDZ,  including the attorney handling this case.   (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 4.)  The  loss of attorneys and staff created confusion as to who was responsible for  which files which lead to mistakes noted herein.  (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 5.)  Mr. Harvey states that he, his predecessor,  and MDZ staff neglected to contact Defendant from the time the Complaint was  filed until the default was taken to determine if Defendant had been properly  served with the Complaint.  (Mot., Harvey  Decl., ¶ 11.)  Further, Mr. Harvey states  he and his predecessor neglected to ensure MDZ staff were sufficiently  monitoring the County of Los Angeles Superior Court docket to determine if a  Complaint was served on Defendant.   (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 12.)  As a  result of Mr. Harvey’s mistake, default was entered against Defendant.  (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 13.)  Once Mr. Harvey became aware of the default,  he instructed his staff to contact Defendant.   (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 13.)  Mr.  Harvey states Defendant is available and cooperating in defense of this  case.  (Mot., Harvey Decl., ¶ 14.)           OPPOSITION   In opposition,  Plaintiff argues Defendant’s own failure to act was the actual cause of a  default judgment being entered against him.   (Plaintiff’s Mot., Pg. 3.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant failed to  notify the relevant parties he had been served with the Summons.  (Plaintiff’s Mot.,  Pg. 3.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues Defendant did not provide a  declaration as to why he did not respond to the Summons or efforts he made to  communicate with his insurance company after being served with the Summons and  Complaint.   (Plaintiff’s Mot., Pg.  3.)  Further, Plaintiff contends that to  relieve Defendant from his own inexcusable failure to act, MDZ is taking full  responsibility for Defendant’s own failure.   (Plaintiff’s Mot., Pg. 3.)   Plaintiff argues it should be Defendant’s own responsibility to act on  the Summons and notify his insurance company.   (Plaintiff’s Mot., Pg. 3.)   Plaintiff also argues that MDZ was not counsel for Defendant between the  time Defendant was served with the Summons to the time Default was entered.  (Plaintiff’s Mot., Pg. 4.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant was represented by  attorneys from the Chavez Legal Group.   (Plaintiff’s Mot., Pg. 4.)  On  July 27, 2022, attorney Lili Mostofi (“Mostofi”) from Chavez Legal Group  informed Plaintiff’s counsel that she represented Defendant and asked that the  default be set aside.     REPLY               On  Reply, Mr.  Harvey argues the Chavez Legal Group changed its name to MDZ in March 2023  because several attorneys left the firm.   (Defendant’s Reply, Pg. 1.)  Thus, MDZ is the same law firm that has  represented Defendant since the case started, as noted in comparison to the  firm’s address.   (Defendant’s Reply, Pg. 1.)  Ms. Mostofi, the attorney who informed  Plaintiff she represented Defendant, was one of the attorneys who left MDZ.  (Defendant’s Reply, Pg. 1.)  Mr. Harvey further argues that Plaintiff served  Defendant by substitute service on February 2, 2022, but filed a proof of  service by publication on May 18, 2023, which is why Defendant did not respond.  (Defendant’s Reply, Pg. 2.)   Mr. Harvey argues that due to the confusion  of assigned files when attorneys left MDZ, neither he nor MDZ followed up with  Defendant to confirm service of this suit.   Finally, Defendant’s counsel argues that this is the proper motion to  file and since it was filed within 6 months of entry of judgment, this Court  should grant the instant motion.     ANALYSIS   I.          Motion  to Set Aside Default Judgment  A.        Legal Standard  “Section 473(b) provides for both  discretionary and mandatory relief.  [Citation.]”  (Pagnini  v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.)  An application for relief  under this section must be made no more than six months after entry of the  judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is sought and  must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence,  surprise or neglect of the moving party or its attorney. (Code Civ. Proc., §  473, subd. (b); English v. IKON Business  Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) In addition, an application for  relief under this section “shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or  other pleading proposed to be filed herein, otherwise the application shall not  be granted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under this section is  mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is  discretionary. (Id.) When relief from default and default judgment is  the attorney’s fault, the six-month period starts to run from the date of the  entry of the default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, sub. (b); Sugasawara  v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 295.)    B.        Discussion    Here, Mr. Harvey’s  office represented Defendant since the beginning of the lawsuit.  Ms. Mostofi informed Plaintiff that she  represented Defendant on July 27, 2022.   Mr. Harvey stated that nearly half of MDZ attorneys and staff left the  office between February 2022 and March 2023, including Ms. Mostofi.  Due to the large departure of staff and  lawyers, Mr. Harvey attests that confusion arose about what cases were assigned  to what lawyer.  As a result of Mr.  Harvey and MDZ’s mistake and neglect, an answer was not timely filed.  Additionally, due to their neglect, neither  Mr. Harvey nor MDZ ever followed up with Defendant to ask if he had been  served.  Therefore, default judgment was  entered against Defendant due to Mr. Harvey and MDZ’s mistake and neglect.     III.       Conclusion            For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s  Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant's answer to be separately filed within 10-days.Trial in this action is reset for June 4, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.Discovery  and all other trial related deadlines to comport with the new trial date. Parties must comply with the trial requirements as set forth  in the court's Third Amended Standing Order for Limited Civil Cases (effective  February 24, 2020).All trial documents are to be electronically filed at least  ten (10) days prior to the trial date. Parties should be prepared to submit a JOINT Trial Readiness  Binder and Exhibit Binder on the date of trial, and to personally appear.  Moving parties are ordered to give  notice.   