  Case Number:  21STCV28185    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Martina A. Silas,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV28185




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
The Fox Law Corporation, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 23, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants The Fox Law Corporation
and Steven Robert Fox  
Responding Party: Plaintiff Martina A. Silas
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 21, 2023, Plaintiff Martina Silas
filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants The Fox Law
Corporation, Inc., Steven Robert Fox, and Barry Roger Wegman, asserting causes
of action for fraudulent transfer, fraud, conversion, money had and received,
financial elder abuse, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges she obtained a
judgment and assignment order against third-party James Arden for approximately
$300,000.00 in 2011. At some point, Arden filed for bankruptcy. Plaintiff
alleges that Arden paid Defendants, his purported attorneys in the bankruptcy
proceedings, with money that belonged to Plaintiff per the assignment order.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Tenth Cause of Action for Elder
Abuse
 
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30(a)
provides, “ ‘Financial abuse’ of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a
person or entity does any of the following: (1) Takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult
for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.”
 
Defendants assert the claim for elder
abuse fails because Plaintiff was not an “elder” when the alleged wrongful
conduct occurred. Plaintiff alleges Defendants received money belonging to
Plaintiff in 2019. Plaintiff alleges she turned 65 years old in 2020. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the elder abuse claim is proper because Defendants
“retained” Plaintiff’s money after she turned 65. Under the language of the
statute, Plaintiff has stated a cause of action for financial elder abuse.
 
The demurrer to the tenth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Eleventh Cause of Action for
Declaratory Relief
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause
of action on the ground that the SAC seeks damages. Plaintiff may allege
alternative forms of relief, including declarations of the rights of the
parties. 
 
The demurrer to the eleventh cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
 
 