 Case Number:  22STCV06085    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Cartwright Termite & Pest Control, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV06085




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Nisan Tepper, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 23, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Reconsideration
Moving Party: Defendant Shmuel Erde
Responding Party: Dismissed Defendant Balboa, LLC
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
A non-prevailing party may make a
motion to reconsider and enter a different order under the following
conditions: (1) brought before the same judge that make the order sought to be
reconsidered; (2) made within 10 days after service upon the party of the
notice of entry of the order; (3) based on new or different facts,
circumstances or law than those before the court at the time of the original
ruling; (4) supported by a declaration stating the previous order, by which
judge it was made, and the new or different facts, circumstances or law claimed
to exist; and (5) the motion must be made and decided before entry of
judgment.  (CCP § 1008.)
 
Defendant Erde moves for
reconsideration of the Court’s August 11, 2023 order denying Defendant’s motion
to join Balboa, LLC as a necessary party following Plaintiff’s dismissal of
Balboa. Defendant asserts that he has claims against Balboa and was not notified
of Balboa’s dismissal. These are not grounds for reconsideration. As 


 
stated in the August 11, 2023 order, if
Defendant has claims against Balboa, Defendant may seek to file a
cross-complaint or separate action against Balboa.
 
The motion is DENIED.


 