  Case Number:  23CHCV00393    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-24-24
Case
# 23CHCV00393, Townsell v. Valley Gym Corp., et al.
Trial
Date: 07-21-25
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Richard Townsell
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Valley Gym Corp.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
allowing Plaintiff to file a First Amended Complaint.
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff Richard Townsell (Plaintiff) filed this case against
Defendant Valley Gym Corp. (Defendant) and Does 1 to 20, alleging injuries
caused by a dangerous condition at Defendant’s gym, Speakeasy Fitness.  Plaintiff alleges that on November 18, 2021,
while using a cable machine at around 20 pounds, the machine malfunctioned, and
a cable snapped, causing injuries to Plaintiff’s head, neck, and
shoulders.  The complaint alleges causes
of action for negligence and premises liability.  On March 29, 2023, Defendant filed an
answer.  
 
On
June 11, 2024, Plaintiff amended the name of Doe 1 to Hoist Fitness, Systems,
Inc. (Hoist), manufacturer of the cable machine.  Hoist filed an answer on August 7, 2024.  
 
Plaintiff
filed this motion to file a First Amended Complaint on November 26, 2024,
seeking to add a third cause of action for gross negligence.  Defendant filed an opposition on December 6,
2024.  
 
SUMMARY
OF ARGUMENTS
Plaintiff
moves for leave to file an amended complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff recently
discovered new facts giving rise to a gross negligence claim.  On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff deposed
Defendant’s Personal Most Knowledgeable (PMK) Albert Bernal.  (Declaration of Timothy M. Ghobrial,  ¶ 6, Exh. C.) 
Mr. Bernal’s testimony revealed that Defendant ignored the proper
maintenance of the cable machine while also making the machine available to
gym-goers.  (Ibid.)  Further, Plaintiff alleges that the equipment
malfunctioned and injured other people prior to November 18, 2021, Defendant was
aware of this, and still allowed Plaintiff to use the machine.  Finally, the new claim arises from the same
underlying facts as the original complaint, granting this motion is in the
interest of justice.  
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the Court should deny this motion because
Plaintiff waived its right to sue by signing a waiver with Defendant (as
pointed out in Defendant’s motion for summary judgment) and mere nonfeasance,
such as failure to discover a dangerous condition amounts to ordinary
negligence, not gross negligence.  
 
No
reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Leave to Amend - 473(a)(1) and
576
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1); see also In re Marriage of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1429.)  “Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
576.)
 
Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties, and
therefore, courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal
allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 290, 296-297.)  “If the motion to
amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) 
 
If
the party seeking the amendment has been “dilatory,” and the delay has
prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to
amend.  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2020) [Weil & Brown],
¶ 6:655, citations omitted.)  “Prejudice
exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of
discovery.”  (Id. at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)  However, “the fact
that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would make
admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of prejudice
the court will consider.”  (Ibid.)  Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is
not grounds for denial.  (Id. at ¶
6:653 [citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558,
564-565].)  “Even if some prejudice is
shown, the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the
Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663,
citation omitted.)  
 
Motions
for leave to amend must also meet certain procedural requirements. For
instance, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a) requires that the motion
“(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
Additionally,
Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the declaration in support of a motion for leave
to file an amended complaint must state: “(1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
As
set forth in the Declaration of Timothy M. Ghobrial, Plaintiff’s counsel,
Plaintiff seeks to add a new cause of action for gross negligence against Defendant
Valley Gym Corp.  (Ghrobrial Dec., ¶ 7.)
 
On
October 23, 2024, Plaintiff deposed Defendant’s PMK: Albert Bernal.  (Ghrobrial Dec., ¶ 6.)  During this deposition, Plaintiff states he discovered
that Defendant engaged in a pattern of gross negligence in maintaining its gym
equipment.  (Ibid.)  At the time of the alleged incident, Mr.
Bernal was Defendant’s technician responsible for inspecting gym equipment,
performing repairs, and ensuring the safety and functionality of the machines,
including the cable machine that allegedly caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  (Ibid., Exh. C, at pp. 14:20-25.)  Mr. Bernal testified that Defendant Hoist,
the manufacturer of the cable machine, published an owner’s manual that stated
the machine required daily inspections of its cables, belts, their tension, and
a yellow pull pin button.  (Ibid.,
Exh. C, pp. 38:24-25, 39:1-15.)  Mr.
Bernal testified that he checked the pull pin twice per week, he did not know
where the owner’s manual was located, and that the machine at issue did not
have a safety latch.  (Ibid., Exh.
C, pp. 42:4-6, 70:11-20.)  Finally, Mr.
Bernal testified that Defendant did not have a policy in place that required
safety latches for the machine.  (Ibid.,
Exh. C, at p. 71:19-21.)  
 
Further,
Mr. Bernal testified that prior to Plaintiff’s injury, two other gym members
were injured by cable machine failures at Defendant’s Reseda and North
Hollywood locations.  (Reply Declaration
of Timothy M. Ghobrial, ¶ 2, Exh. A, pp. 6:9-25, 7:1-20, 45:12-25, 46:1-25, and
47:1-23.)  In both instances, the cable
snapped on the gym members, hitting them, and causing injuries.  (Reply Ghobrial Dec., Exh. A, p.
47:10-22.)  In response to these two
incidents, Defendant instructed Mr. Bernal to keep a written log of all cables
and to replace all cables on a yearly basis. 
(Reply Ghobrial Dec., Exh. A, p. 45:12-24.)  
 
Based
on these new facts, Plaintiff seeks to add a claim for gross negligence to her complaint:  Defendant was grossly negligent by engaging
in a pattern of failing to properly maintain the cable machine which created a
dangerous condition that caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  Defendant knew of the dangerous condition
because prior to Plaintiff’s incident, two other gym members suffered injuries
from the same dangerous condition. 
Defendant’s response to the first two injuries was to replace the cables
on a yearly basis.  After implementing
this policy, Plaintiff suffered injuries from the same dangerous
condition.  
 
            Gross Negligence
“Gross
negligence is the lack of any care or an extreme departure from what a
reasonably careful person would do in the same situation to prevent harm to
oneself or to others.”  (CACI No.
425.)  “A person can be grossly negligent
by acting or by failing to act.”  (Ibid.)  Whether conduct constitutes gross negligence
depends on the nature of the conduct and the surrounding circumstances.  (Jimenez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 555.)  “Gross
negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of negligence: duty,
breach, causation, and damages. However, to set forth a claim for ‘gross
negligence’ the plaintiff must allege extreme conduct on the part of the
defendant.”  (Rosencrans v. Dover
Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082 [internal citation omitted].)  
 
“[I]n cases involving a waiver of liability for
future negligence, courts have held that conduct that substantially or
unreasonably increased the inherent risk of an activity or actively concealed a
known risk could amount to gross negligence, which would not be barred by a
release agreement.  Evidence of conduct
that evinces an extreme departure from manufacturer’s safety directions or an
industry standard also could demonstrate gross negligence.”  (See also Jimenez, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th at p. 558 [finding “an extreme departure” where defendant knew it
was violating the manufacturer’s safety instructions by deliberately arranging
gym equipment in an unsafe manner without conducting mitigation measures to
ensure safety].)  Conversely, conduct
demonstrating the failure to guard against, or warn of, a dangerous condition
typically does not rise to the level of gross negligence.”  (Anderson v. Fitness Internat., LLC
(2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 867, 881-882 [finding based on undisputed facts that the
alleged condition was not an “extreme departure” because the gym’s tile floor
was routinely covered in oily and soapy residue] [internal citations omitted].)    
 
In Jimenez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc., the
plaintiffs sued defendant gym for injuries sustained when plaintiff Jimenez
fell off a treadmill and hit her head on an exposed steel foot that was three
feet and ten inches behind the treadmill. 
(Jimenez, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 551.)  To support their gross negligence claim,
Plaintiffs presented (1) a copy of the treadmill manufacturer’s owner’s manual
which instructed owners that the minimum space required for user safety is
three feet wide and six feet deep; (2) a copy of the assembly guide which
instructs that the treadmill required at least a six-foot-deep clearance behind
the treadmill for user safety and proper maintenance; and (3) expert testimony
that the six-foot clearance requirement would protect users from striking other
objects if they fell off the treadmill, lowering the risk of injury.  (Id. at p. 556.)  While the Court of Appeal did not decide
whether it was the industry standard to provide the minimum six-foot safety
zone, the Court found that the evidence and defendant knowing it was violating
the manufacturer’s express safety instructions was enough for a jury to find
gross negligence.  (Id. at p.
558.)  
 
Similarly, Plaintiff seeks to plead Defendant’s gross
negligence based on the owner’s manual’s instructions to inspect the cable
machine daily, Mr. Bernal’s testimony that he checked the cable machine twice a
week, Mr. Bernal’s testimony that he did not follow the express instructions in
the manual per Defendant’s policy, that the equipment had previously
malfunctioned and injured two other persons prior to November 18, 2021, that Defendant
was aware of this and still allowed Plaintiff to use the machine, and that this
conduct caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  
 
Plaintiff was diligent in discovering these facts and
moving to file a First Amended Complaint, and the evidence supports Plaintiff’s
request to add the gross negligence claim against Defendant.  Defendant has a Hoist cable machine in its
gym, and the manufacturer’s manual expressly states the cables, belts, push
pin, and tension must be checked daily. 
Defendant’s PMK states this is not Defendant’s policy and that the PMK
does not even know where the manual is located. 
Plaintiff alleges the cable machine previously malfunctioned causing
injuries to two other persons, and Defendant had knowledge of this.  The snapping of the cable on the cable
machine caused Plaintiff’s injury. 
 
Although Defendant challenges the strength of
Plaintiff’s claim, the new allegations are sufficient on their face to support
a gross negligence claim.  The new claim
does not prejudice Defendant as it arises from the same conduct and facts at
issue in the original complaint, and Plaintiff seeks damages for the same
injuries.  Further, Defendant cannot use
its liability waiver form to avoid a gross negligence claim.  (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 751 [“[A]n agreement made in the context of sports or
recreational programs or services, purporting to release liability for future gross
negligence, generally is unenforceable as a matter of public policy.”] [emphasis
added].)  Such an agreement would “remove
a party’s obligation to adhere to even a minimal standard of care, thereby
sheltering aggravated misconduct[.]”  (Id.
at p. 762.)  
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
file a First Amended Complaint. 
 
ORDER
The Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve his
First Amended Complaint within 5 days of the date of this order.  Defendants have 20 days from service to
respond.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 