 Case Number:  22STCV38566    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SERVICE MANAGEMENT GROUP HOLDINGS, LLC,
                        
                       Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SMG MOUNTAIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC,
  
                        

                      Defendant. 
 

 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38566
  Hearing Date:  April 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-complainant’s motion for summary adjudication
  (CRS# 1728)
   




SMG MOUNTAIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC,
                     
                      Cross-Complainant,
             
             v.
 
ANDREW FROMM, et al.,
                      Cross-Defendants.


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Service Management Group Holdings, LLC (SMG Holdings) filed
this action against Defendant and Cross-Complainant SMG Mountain Intermediate
Holdings, LLC (SMG Mountain), asserting a single cause of action for breach of
contract. 
            The complaint alleges that SMG
Holdings (Seller) and an individual named Andrew Fromm (Fromm) entered into an
Equity Purchase Agreement (EPA) with SMG Mountain (Buyer). Under the EPA, SMG
Mountain agreed to purchase all outstanding membership interests in Service
Management Group, LLC (the Company). As part of the transaction, the parties
agreed to set aside $860,000 in an Indemnity Escrow Account. Under the EPA, SMG
Holdings and Fromm were required to indemnify SMG Mountain for covered losses
related to the transaction. If no indemnifiable loss occurred by the one-year
anniversary of the closing date, the escrow amount was to be distributed to SMG
Holdings. SMG Mountain has refused to distribute the escrow amount to SMG
Holdings despite allegedly never making any valid claim for indemnity within
the time limit. 
            On December 23, 2022, SMG Mountain
filed a cross-complaint against Fromm and SMG Holdings. The operative First
Amended Cross-Complaint was filed on August 25, 2023. The FACC asserts ten
causes of action in the following manner: (i) breach of contract as to
Customers 1 and 2; (ii) fraud by misrepresentation as to Customers 1 through 4;
and (iii) fraud by omission as to Customers 1 through 4.   
            The FACC alleges that Fromm lied and
concealed information from SMG Mountain to inflate the price of the Company.
The FACC alleges that Fromm knew of at least four customers who were
dissatisfied with the services provided by the Company. The customers
ultimately did not renew their contracts with the Company. The loss of these
customers affected the Company’s future earnings, which in turn affected the
fair price of the transaction described above. Fromm allegedly made false
representations and concealed information about the Company’s relationships
with these four customers. Because of Fromm’s deception, the Company was
allegedly sold at an inflated price, approximately $60 million above fair
value. 
            On March 1, 2024, SMG Mountain filed
the instant motion for summary adjudication of the first, third, sixth,
seventh, and tenth causes of action in its FACC pertaining to two customers,
Sainsbury’s and DSG. SMG Holdings and Fromm (collectively, Cross-Defendants)
filed their opposition on April 8, 2024. SMG Mountain filed its reply on April
15, 2024.   
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Cross-Defendants’
Objections to Cross-Complainant’s Evidence

The objections fail to set
     forth the material being objected to. (See Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
     3.1354(b).) Cross-Defendants object to the facts listed in Buyer’s
     separate statement rather than the actual evidence. The Court cannot
     determine whether any evidence is objectionable because each fact is a
     summary of multiple items of evidence, and Cross-Defendants do not quote
     the evidence itself.   

Cross-Complainant’s
Objections to Cross-Defendants’ Evidence

Cross-Complainant’s objections
     are overruled. 

LEGAL STANDARD
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish each
element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once
the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Customer 1 – Sainsbury’s 
            a. Breach of Contract (First
Cause of Action)
Breach of contract requires: (1) a
contractual obligation; (2) a breach of that obligation; and (3) a resulting
damage. (Great Hill Equity Partners IV, LP v. SIG Growth Equity Fund I, LLLP
(Del. Ch., Dec. 3, 2018, No. CV 7906-VCG) 2018 WL 6311829, at *45.) The FACC
alleges breaches of Sections 4.10, 4.21, and 4.28 of the EPA, which represented
that: (i) the Company had not received any notice of the cancellation of a
Material Contract; (ii) the Company had not received any notice from a Material
Customer that it would stop or materially reduce its business with the Company;
and (iii) the Company’s expiring contracts with Customer 1 would be renewed.
(FACC ¶¶ 100-103.)    
On this motion, SMG Mountain relies on two
misrepresentations: (1) that Sainsbury’s expiring contract with the Company
would be renewed; and (2) that Sainsbury’s did not provide notice that it would
stop or materially reduce its business with the Company. SMG Mountain argues
that Cross-Defendants made these representations in the EPA despite having
received communications from Sainsbury’s that it was moving its customer
experience in-house and despite internally acknowledging concern over losing
Sainsbury’s. (UF 18-20, 29, 32-41, 86-89.) Sainsbury’s ultimately renewed its
contract with the Company for only a single service. (UF 47-48.)  
On the other hand, it was not uncommon for
customers to state that they were taking certain services in-house without
fully considering the consequences. (AF 40.) Customers often decided to stay
with the Company after consideration. (Ibid.) After the May 2021 notice
from Sainsbury’s, the Company communicated regularly with Sainsbury’s about
providing other services and expanding the business in other ways. (AF 41.)
Internal communications and assessments suggest that the Company was confident
Sainsbury’s would renew its agreement, particularly noting that Sainsbury’s was
concerned with switching to less secure software and valued a continuing
relationship with the Company. (AF 42-43.) Ultimately, Sainsbury’s did renew
its contract with the Company, albeit forgoing the VisitView, PostShip, eTrack,
and InForm services and only retaining the BrandTrack service. (UF 47-48; AF
45.) 
A reasonable jury may find that
Sainsbury’s statement about taking services in-house did not constitute a
notice to stop or materially reduce its business with the Company. It is a
factual issue what constitutes a “stop” or “material reduction” in business.
Furthermore, Sainsbury’s ultimately renewed its contract with the Company,
albeit reducing the number of services retained. A reasonable jury may find
that Sainsbury’s contract was renewed upon expiration, and therefore
Cross-Defendants did not misrepresent that in the EPA. Because triable issues
of fact exist as to the breach of contract claim, summary adjudication is
unwarranted. 
b. Fraud (Third and Seventh Causes of
Action)
The elements of fraud are: “(1) the
defendant falsely represented or omitted facts that the defendant had a duty to
disclose; (2) the defendant knew or believed that the representation was false
or made the representation with a reckless indifference to the truth; (3) the
defendant intended to induce the plaintiff to act or refrain from acting; (4)
the plaintiff acted in justifiable reliance on the representation; and (5) the
plaintiff was injured by its reliance.” (DCV Hldgs., Inc. v. Conagra, Inc.
(Del. 2005) 889 A.2d 954, 958.) 
SMG Mountain bases its fraud claim on the
same facts as discussed above. Therefore, a triable issue exists for the same
reasons. Additionally, fraud requires the defendant to knowingly or recklessly
make a misrepresentation. The evidence discussed above suggests that
Cross-Defendants reasonably believed Sainsbury’s would continue its business
with the Company and renew its contract. Thus, a reasonable jury may find that
Cross-Defendants did not knowingly or recklessly misrepresent the Company’s
relationship with Sainsbury’s. Lastly, reasonable reliance and intent are
ordinarily questions of fact unsuited for resolution on summary adjudication.
(See Fortis
Advisors LLC v. Johnson & Johnson (Ch. Dec. 13, 2021, No. 2020-0881-LWW)
2021 Del. Ch. LEXIS 290, at *29, fn. 144.) 
SMG Mountain argues that Fromm’s
interpretation of the notice does not absolve him of the duty to disclose the
notice as required by the EPA. Relying on Great Hill Equity Partners IV, LP
v. SIG Growth Equity Fund I, LLLP (Del. Ch., Dec. 3, 2018, No. CV 7906-VCG)
2018 WL 6311829, SMG Mountain argues that even if the Court credits Fromm’s
testimony that he did not believe Sainsbury’s notice would lead to actual
termination, Fromm still committed fraud by failing to disclose the notice. In Great
Hill, “PayPal began to threaten termination of its relationship with Plimus
in August 2011 and continued to make threats into September 2011.” (Id.
at *43.) Like Fromm, “Tal and Itshayek did not believe that PayPal would
actually terminate Plimus.” (Ibid.) Nonetheless, the court found that
“[t]he failure to disclose the fine and the termination threats are false
representations.” (Ibid.) 
However, Great Hill was decided at
trial by the court sitting as the trier of fact. (Id. at *2.) The court
“weighed the evidence and made findings based on the preponderance of the
evidence.” (Id., fn. 2.) This Court cannot make the same findings on
summary judgment, but must instead draw all reasonable inferences in
Cross-Defendants’ favor. At this stage, a triable issue remains as to the fraud
claim even if the trier of fact may ultimately reach the same conclusion as the
court in Great Hill. Furthermore, the court’s conclusion in Great
Hill was a factual finding based on the circumstances of that case, not a
binding legal rule to be applied generally. Therefore, summary adjudication is
not warranted.      
II.
Customer 4 – DSG
            a. Fraud (Sixth and Tenth Causes
of Action)
            SMG Mountain’s fraud claims with
regards to DSG are based on the fact that in May 2021, DSG notified the Company
it was moving to a competitor. (UF 99-100.) The Company also internally
acknowledged DSG’s withdrawal, noting that there was “no opportunity” to save
the relationship. (UF 100-102.) DSG in fact did not maintain its contract with
the Company after January 31, 2022. (UF 114.) SMG Mountain contends that the
contractual representations were false because prior to entering the EPA,
Cross-Defendants received notice that DSG would stop doing business with the
Company and would not renew its contract with the Company. 
                        1. Section 4.21
            However, the representation in
Section 4.21 of the EPA pertains to “Material Customers,” defined as those
listed in Schedule 4.21 of the EPA for fiscal year 2020 and for the period from
January 1, 2021 to the date of the Latest Balance Sheet. (AF 51.) DSG is not
listed in Schedule 4.21 as a Material Customer for 2020 or 2021. (AF 52.) This
at least raises a factual dispute. A reasonable jury may find that DSG is not a
Material Customer and therefore the representation in Section 4.21 of the EPA
does not apply to DSG. 
                        2. Section 4.10
            Section 4.10 of the EPA applies to
“Material Contracts,” defined by reference to Schedule 4.10(a) of the EPA. (UF
16-17.) It is undisputed that the Company’s contract with DSG was a Material
Contract. (UF 93.) Section 4.10(b) states that the Company did not receive “any
written notice of cancellation, termination, modification, non-renewal (or
renewal on materially different terms) or acceleration of any Material Contract”
or “any oral notice of a definitive decision to cancel, terminate, modify, not
renew (or renew on materially different terms) or accelerate any Material
Contract.” (UF 16.) 
            There was no written notice of
cancellation, as the May 2021 notice was a phone call. (UF 99-100.) As to the
oral notice, the trier of fact should decide whether Cross-Defendants knew it
conveyed a “definitive decision” to cancel. Cross-Defendants arguably did not interpret
the phone call as a notice to cancel because the agreement with DSG required
“advance written notice” of termination. (AF 57-58.) Additionally, the fact
that the Company continued to communicate with DSG representatives through
August and September 2021 (AF 61) suggests that Cross-Defendants did not
believe the May 2021 notice was a definitive decision to cancel DSG’s contract
with the Company. The evidence is sufficient to raise a factual dispute as to
Cross-Defendants’ fraudulent intent.                
3. Section 4.28
Section 4.28 states that “each of the
Expiring Contracts will be renewed upon expiration thereof and none of the
Terminable Contracts will be terminated prior to the end of the Renewal
Period.” (UF 20.) The contract with DSG is listed in Schedule 4.28(a). (UF 96.)
However, the EPA also defines “Expiring Contract” as “all Contracts that are
set to expire in accordance with their respective terms during the Renewal
Period.” (AF 53.) The contract with DSG did not have an expiration date, and
the EPA does not define “Renewal Period.” (AF 53, 56.) Therefore, a reasonable
jury may find that DSG did not have an Expiring Contract and that the
representation in Section 4.28 does not apply to DSG. Furthermore, the evidence
discussed above suggests that Cross-Defendants reasonably believed the contract
with DSG would be renewed, thus raising a triable issue as to their fraudulent
intent.    
//
//
CONCLUSION
            SMG Mountain’s motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED. 


 
SERVICE MANAGEMENT GROUP HOLDINGS, LLC,
                        
                       Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SMG MOUNTAIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC,
  
                        

                      Defendant. 
 

 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38566
  Hearing Date:  April 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-defendants’ motion for summary
  judgment (CRS# 7395)
   




SMG MOUNTAIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC,
                     
                      Cross-Complainant,
             
             v.
 
ANDREW FROMM, et al.,
                      Cross-Defendants.


 


BACKGROUND            On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Service Management Group Holdings, LLC (SMG Holdings) filed
this action against Defendant and Cross-Complainant SMG Mountain Intermediate
Holdings, LLC (SMG Mountain), asserting a single cause of action for breach of
contract.             The complaint alleges that SMG
Holdings (Seller) and an individual named Andrew Fromm (Fromm) entered into an
Equity Purchase Agreement (EPA) with SMG Mountain (Buyer). Under the EPA, SMG
Mountain agreed to purchase all outstanding membership interests in Service
Management Group, LLC (the Company). As part of the transaction, the parties
agreed to set aside $860,000 in an Indemnity Escrow Account. Under the EPA, SMG
Holdings and Fromm were required to indemnify SMG Mountain for covered losses
related to the transaction. If no indemnifiable loss occurred by the one-year
anniversary of the closing date, the escrow amount was to be distributed to SMG
Holdings. SMG Mountain has refused to distribute the escrow amount to SMG
Holdings despite allegedly never making any valid claim for indemnity within
the time limit.             On December 23, 2022, SMG Mountain
filed a cross-complaint against Fromm and SMG Holdings. The operative First
Amended Cross-Complaint was filed on August 25, 2023. The FACC asserts ten
causes of action in the following manner: (i) breach of contract as to
Customers 1 and 2; (ii) fraud by misrepresentation as to Customers 1 through 4;
and (iii) fraud by omission as to Customers 1 through 4.               The FACC alleges that Fromm lied and
concealed information from SMG Mountain to inflate the price of the Company.
The FACC alleges that Fromm knew of at least four customers who were
dissatisfied with the services provided by the Company. The customers ultimately
did not renew their contracts with the Company. The loss of these customers
affected the Company’s future earnings, which in turn affected the fair price
of the transaction described above. Fromm allegedly made false representations
and concealed information about the Company’s relationships with these four
customers. Because of Fromm’s deception, the Company was allegedly sold at an
inflated price, approximately $60 million above fair value.             On March 1, 2024, SMG Holdings and
Fromm (collectively, Cross-Defendants) filed the instant motion for summary
judgment or adjudication against the FACC. SMG Mountain filed its opposition on
April 8, 2024. Cross-Defendants filed their reply on April 16, 2024.  LEGAL STANDARDThe function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONSCross-Complainant’s
Objections to Cross-Defendants’ Evidence
The following objections are
     sustained: 9.
The following objections are
     overruled: 1-8, 10-14. 
Cross-Defendants’
Objections to Cross-Complainant’s Evidence
The following objections are
     overruled: 1-13.
The remaining objections fail
     to set forth the material being objected to. (See Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
     3.1354(b).) Cross-Defendants object to the facts listed in Buyer’s
     separate statement rather than the actual evidence. The Court cannot
     determine whether any evidence is objectionable because each fact is a
     summary of multiple items of evidence, and Cross-Defendants do not quote
     the evidence itself.   
DISCUSSIONI.
Bootstrapping“As a general rule under Delaware law,
where an action is based entirely on a breach of the terms of a contract
between the parties, and not on a violation of an independent duty imposed by
law, a plaintiff must sue in contract and not in tort.” (Pinkert v. John J.
Olivieri, P.A. (D. Del., May 24, 2001, No. CIV. A. 99-380-SLR) 2001 WL
641737, at *5.) A contract claim “cannot be ‘bootstrapped’ into a fraud claim
merely by adding the words ‘fraudulently induced’ or alleging that the
contracting parties never intended to perform.” (Iotex Communications, Inc.
v. Defries (Del. Ch., Dec. 21, 1998) 1998 WL 914265, at *5.) However, “the
anti-bootstrapping rule does not apply where a plaintiff has made
particularized allegations that a seller knew contractual representations were
false or lied regarding the contractual representation.” (Swipe Acquisition
Corporation v. Krauss (Del. Ch., Aug. 25, 2020, No. CV 2019-0509-PAF) 2020
WL 5015863, at *11.)    Here, the FACC alleges specific
contractual representations that Cross-Defendants allegedly knew were false.
(See FACC ¶¶ 34-70, 129-148, 169-187.) In particular, Cross-Defendants
represented in Section 4.10 of the EPA that they had not received any written
notice of the cancellation of a Material Contract. (Id., ¶ 100.)
Cross-Defendants also represented in Section 4.21 that they had not received
notice that a Material Customer will stop doing business with the Company and
had not received notice that a Material Customer had any material quality
issues with respect to the Company’s services. (Id., ¶ 102.) And Section
4.28 represented that Expiring Contracts with customers would be renewed upon
expiration. (Id., ¶ 103.) At the time of signing the EPA,
Cross-Defendants allegedly knew that these representations were false with
respect to each of the four Customers. (Id., ¶¶ 105, 141, 151, 161.) The
four Customers have since been identified as Sainsbury’s, RBI, Asda, and DSG.
If the allegations are proven true, these contractual misrepresentations are
actionable as fraud and do not constitute bootstrapping. (See Nov. 15, 2023
Order re Dem. 5:25-6:5.)  Cross-Defendants argue that the evidence
proves they did not knowingly make false statements, or did not have the
requisite “illicit state of mind.” (See ABRY Partners V, L.P. v. F&W
Acquisition LLC (Del.Ch. 2006) 891 A.2d 1032, 1064.) a. Sainsbury’sAlthough Cross-Defendants acknowledge
being told in May 2021 that Sainsbury’s would be bringing its customer
experience inhouse (UF 47), Cross-Defendants argue that the Company
communicated regularly with Sainsbury’s to preserve the business relationship
(UF 48-53). Cross-Defendants contend that they at most overestimated the
relationship based on past experience but did not knowingly make a false
statement about Sainsbury’s relationship with the Company. The fact that the Company attempted to
preserve the relationship with Sainsbury’s after the May 2021 notice does not
negate the fact that Cross-Defendants received the notice. Cross-Defendants
represented in Section 4.21 of the EPA that they had not received notice that a
Material Customer will “stop, or substantially decrease the rate of, doing
business” with the Company. (FACC ¶ 102.) A reasonable jury may find that the
May 2021 call was precisely a notice from Sainsbury’s that it would stop or
substantially decrease its business with the Company. Fromm explains why he did
not interpret the call with Sainsbury’s to mean that Sainsbury’s would be
leaving the Company, but his interpretation does not preclude a triable issue
over the matter. Additionally, Sainsbury’s sent an email to Fromm stating that
Sainsbury’s “will stop working with” the Company, providing further
explicit notice of its intent to stop doing business with the Company.
(Cross-Def.’s Ex. 36.) A reasonable jury may find that the representation in
Section 4.21 of the EPA was knowingly false because Cross-Defendants knew they
had received the above notices from Sainsbury’s yet represented that they had
not. Furthermore, there is evidence that
Cross-Defendants internally acknowledged Sainsbury’s would stop or
substantially decrease its business with the Company. The issue with
Sainsbury’s raised “alarm bells,” and Fromm testified that the Company needed
to convince Sainsbury’s “to stay with us.” (AF 27.) Sainsbury’s ultimately
moved its customer experience platform to a competitor and renewed its contract
with the Company for only one product worth £75,000, an 89% decrease in revenue
from the prior year. (AF 28-30, 40-41.) The Company’s sales manager notified
president Ken White that “we are helpfully guiding [Sainsbury’s] out of the SMG
business and not putting ourselves in the frame to provide consultancy.” (AF
33.) White testified that as of August 24, 2021, he could not confirm that
Sainsbury’s would renew its contract with the Company. (AF 38.) Ultimately, a reasonable jury may find
that Cross-Defendants knew Sainsbury’s would “stop, or materially decrease the
rate of, doing business with the Company,” yet represented the opposite in
Section 4.21 of the EPA. (See FACC ¶ 102.) A reasonable jury may also find that
Cross-Defendants knew the Company’s expiring customer experience contract with
Sainsbury’s would not be renewed, yet represented the opposite in Section 4.28.
(See FACC ¶ 103.) b. RBICross-Defendants argue that they had
positive conversations with RBI and that the Company’s fifteen-year
relationship with RBI led them to believe the relationship would continue. (UF
55-56.) According to Cross-Defendants, as of August 2021, the Company felt it
was in a good position to win the bid for RBI’s business. (UF 59.) At the time
of the EPA, RBI was engaged in a request for proposal (RFP) process with the
Company and several of its competitors. (AF 44.) Cross-Defendants point out
that after closing, RBI did continue its relationship with the Company, albeit
without the longer-term agreement that the Company and RBI had historically
entered. (UF 60.) Cross-Defendants contend that it was the Company’s new
leadership, selected by SMG Mountain’s representative (Brentwood), that refused
to work with RBI and decided to “burn all bridges.” (UF 61.) On the other hand, the very fact that RBI
was engaging in the RFP process with the Company’s competitors arguably put
Cross-Defendants on notice that the Company’s position was not secure. Indeed, White
told Fromm that it was “critical that the negotiations go fast,” and expressed
concern that RBI would select one of the Company’s competitors. (Resp. to UF
56.) RBI did in fact select a competitor and notified the Company that it would
not be renewing its contract with the Company. (AF 52.) The shorter-term contract
that RBI entered into with the Company was for the purpose of transitioning RBI
to the competitor. (Resp. to UF 60.) RBI had decided to move to the competitor
even before the issues with the Company’s leadership. (Resp. to UF 61.) Therefore,
a reasonable jury may find that Cross-Defendants knew RBI would stop or
substantially reduce its business with the Company and would not renew its
contracts with the Company. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ contradictory
representations in the EPA may constitute fraud. c. AsdaCross-Defendants argue that the Company
worked with Asda to address its concerns and was confident that Asda would
renew its agreement with the Company. (UF 62-64.) Cross-Defendants point out
that Asda even signed a letter agreement extending its contract through 2022.
(UF 64.) Cross-Defendants contend that it was only after closing when the
Company’s new leadership decided not to provide custom software configurations
for customers like Asda, which likely led Asda to not renew its contract with
the Company. (UF 69-71.) According to Cross-Defendants, the statements in the
EPA were true when made in regards to Asda. On the other hand, months before the EPA
closed, Asda identified to the Company numerous issues which could be
considered “material quality issues.” These issues included an inflexible and
difficult to use dashboard, technical difficulties with integration, slow
turnaround times, and suboptimal outputs. (AF 59-60.) Asda characterized these
issues as “significant” and as making its “job very difficult.” (AF 61.) Asda
complained that the Company’s platform was “not functioning the way that Asda
expected.” (AF 62.) Therefore, a reasonable jury may find that the
representation in Section 4.21 of the EPA—that the Company had not received any
complaints about “material quality issues” from a Material Customer—was false
when made. The above evidence suggests that Cross-Defendants did in fact
receive notice of material quality issues prior to closing. The fact that Asda
renewed its contract is not dispositive because the Asda fraud claim is
premised on Cross-Defendants misrepresenting whether they received complaints
of material quality issues, not whether Asda renewed its contract.    In sum, there are triable issues of fact
as to whether the representations made in the EPA were false. The fraud claims
do not constitute improper bootstrapping because particularized factual
statements in contracts are actionable as fraud if they are proven false, and a
reasonable jury may find that the statements at issue here were false. II.
Damages            SMG Mountain (Buyer) claims that it
paid $60 million over the fair value of the Company. (FACC ¶ 2.)
Cross-Defendants argue that this is an “incomprehensible calculation” that
represents neither benefit of the bargain damages nor out of pocket damages. Cross-Defendants
contend that SMG Mountain’s calculation “is flawed and does not accurately
reflect the true profit margin of these Customers.” Cross-Defendants conclude
that “[t]his is because Buyer has no damages and should not be allowed to put
forth any evidence to the contrary.”             However, Cross-Defendants cite no
authority for the proposition that if a claimant’s calculation of damages is
flawed, it must have suffered no damages at all and is precluded from
introducing any evidence of damages. The precise extent of Buyer’s damages is
itself a factual issue. Buyer’s claims do not entirely fail simply because the
damages alleged in the complaint are exaggerated. Furthermore, Buyer’s expert
avers that Buyer’s methodology is reasonable and that Buyer did suffer damages.
(Hazel Decl. ¶¶ 15-20.) Cross-Defendants are entitled to challenge Buyer’s
calculations or methodology, but the conflict must be resolved by the trier of
fact at trial, not by the Court on summary judgment. Cross-Defendants also argue that Buyer
suffered no damages because the actual value of the Company was equal to or
higher than the purchase price according to Buyer’s own valuations and audits.
Cross-Defendants further point out that Buyer did not deem that a “triggering
event” occurred such that the Company’s goodwill had to be evaluated for
impairment. However, Buyer’s evidence indicates that
while the October 2021 valuation of $174 million was close to the purchase
price, the valuation ascribed value primarily to the Company’s goodwill. (Resp.
to UF 78-79.) Therefore, if the purchase price had been lower, the valuation
would also have been lowered proportionately. (Ibid.) This suggests that
the difference between the valuation and the purchase price is not an accurate
measure of damages. As discussed above, Buyer’s expert avers that Buyer’s
methodology is reasonable and that Buyer did suffer damages.  Regarding the lack of goodwill impairment,
the Company’s auditor avers that a goodwill impairment is only triggered and
reported when an entity’s fair value has decreased below its carrying amount.
(Tenbrink Decl. ¶ 10.) To cross this threshold, there must be customer losses
that comprise more than 20% of the entity’s revenue where that loss is not
offset by new acquisitions. (Id., ¶ 14.) This did not occur for the
Company, thus a goodwill impairment was not triggered. (Id., ¶ 16.) In
other words, the Company could have lost customers, which affected its value,
without triggering a goodwill impairment. Therefore, the lack of a goodwill
impairment report does not prove as a matter of law that Buyer suffered no
damages. III.
Justifiable Reliance             Cross-Defendants argue that an NDA
signed prior to the EPA, as well as the EPA itself, preclude claims based on
representations made outside of the EPA. However, the EPA contains an
integration clause stating that it is “the sole and entire agreement of the
parties” and supersedes “all prior and contemporaneous representations,
warranties, understandings and agreements, both written and oral, with respect
to such subject matter.” (AF 21.) Therefore, a reasonable jury may find that
the EPA supersedes the NDA. Even if the NDA applied, the factual
representations in the EPA may still form the basis for fraud. And the Court
has already found that the anti-reliance clause in the EPA does not bar fraud
claims. (Nov. 15, 2023 Order re Dem. 7:6-12.) Thus, the NDA and EPA do not
defeat Buyer’s fraud claims as a matter of law.               The FACC alleges that Fromm
specifically represented to Buyer that “there was no way that Customer 2 [RBI]
would terminate its multi-year relationship with the Company.” (FACC ¶ 60.)
Cross-Defendants present no evidence that Fromm did not make this statement or
that Buyer did not reasonably rely on it. Cross-Defendants argue that Buyer
could not have reasonably relied on Fromm’s statement because Buyer knew from
first-hand knowledge that RBI was unlikely to renew its contract with the
Company. However, as the Court has already held, RBI’s negative feedback does
not preclude Buyer’s reliance on Fromm’s subsequent statement that RBI would
renew its contract. (Nov. 15, 2023 Order re Dem. 7:6-12; AF 48-49.) Buyer’s
reliance is ultimately an issue of fact. CONCLUSION            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is DENIED. 
