  Case Number:  21STCV20321    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
THELIDRIA
  CALHOUN, in and through her Successors-In-Interest DIMITRIA CALHOUN, an
  individual; DARREN CALHOUN; an individual; and DWAYLON CALHOUN, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:


 
21STCV20321




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Sustained without leave to amend




 
KND
  DEVELOPMENT 53, LLC dba KINDRED HOSPITAL SOUTHBAY (ERRONEOUSLY SUED AND
  SERVED AS KINDRED HOSPITAL SOUTHBAY); and DOES 1 through 50,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              November
6, 2024
 
Moving Party:             Defendant KND Development 53 
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Thelidria Calhoun, Dimitria
Calhoun, Darren Calhoun, And Dwaylon Calhoun
HEARING: Demurrer to
the Third Amended Complaint
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
 
RULING
The Court sustains the Demurrer as to the first
cause of action for elder abuse without leave to amend.
BACKGROUND
            
On
May 28, 2021, Plaintiffs Thelidria Calhoun, Dimitria Calhoun, Darren Calhoun,
And Dwaylon Calhoun filed the Complaint.
 
            On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed the First Amended Complaint.
 
            On May 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the Second Amended Complaint.
 
            On September 12, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC) against Defendant KND
Development 53, alleging causes of action for elder abuse and wrongful death.
 
            On October 10, 2024, Defendant KND
Development 53 filed the Demurrer to the TAC.
 
            On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the Opposition.
 
            On October 30, 2024, Defendant filed
the Reply.
            
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the
failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing
defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to. (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However,
“[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is
in some respects uncertain because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for elder abuse.
 
Meet and confer
 
Before filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)
 
Defendant’s counsel
sent a meet and confer letter on September 26, 2024, regarding the demurrer to
the TAC. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has met the meet and confer
requirement. 
 
 
“Every pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper shall be signed by
at least one attorney of record in the attorney’s individual name, or, if the
party is not represented by an attorney, shall be signed by the party. Each
paper shall state the signer’s address and telephone number, if any. Except
when otherwise provided by law, pleadings need not be verified or accompanied
by affidavit. An unsigned paper shall be stricken unless omission of the
signature is corrected promptly after being called to the attention of the
attorney or party.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.7 subd. (a).
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s unsigned
Demurrer should be stricken in its entirety. However, Defendant filed a notice
of errata rectifying the issue. Therefore, the Court uses its discretion to
rule on the merits of the Demurrer.
 
Timeliness
 
The Court may
dismiss the Complaint after a demurrer to the Compliant is sustained with leave
to amend if Plaintiff fails to amend within the time allowed by the Court and
either party moves for dismissal. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 581 subd.
(f)(1).)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs have consistently missed court deadlines and failed to
adequately amend their complaints despite multiple opportunities to do so.
Plaintiffs filed their TAC eight days late, following a similar delay with
their Second Amended Complaint. This tardiness is part of a broader pattern,
including an 18-month period of inactivity that led to a prior dismissal.
Plaintiffs’ repeated amendments are nearly identical, failing to address the
court’s feedback. Defendant requests that the court sustain their demurrer to
the TAC without leave to amend and dismiss the Elder Abuse claim due to
Plaintiffs' non-compliance.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that, per the court’s ruling, they were given 20 days from the notice
date to amend their complaint. Since Defendant’s counsel served notice on
August 21, 2024, and under Code of Civil Procedure §1010.6, electronic service
allows an extension of two court days, the amendment period began on August 23,
2024. Consequently, Plaintiffs assert that the TAC, filed on September 12,
2024, was within the allotted time and thus timely.
 
In reply, Defendant
argues that although Plaintiffs assert that the filing deadline was extended
due to a Notice of Ruling filed by Defendant on August 21, Plaintiffs’ counsel
attended the August 15 hearing where parties waived the need for notice. (Reply
Exhibit 2, Pg. 12.) Additionally, the Court’s minute order and mailing
certificate confirm the ruling was served on August 15, making the TAC due by
September 4. (Reply Exhibit 3, Pg. 1.) 
 
Parties waived
notice during the August 15 hearing, and the Court granted 20 days leave to
amend the elder abuse cause of action. (8/15/2024 Minute Order.)
Therefore, the Court finds that the TAC is untimely. However, the Court
exercises its discretion to consider the motion on its merits.
 
Cause of Action 1 – Elder Abuse (Welfare &
Institutions Code § 15600)
            
            In order to state a cause of action under the Elder Abuse
Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that
would support recovery of punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 789.) There must be a showing of
recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. (Id. at 783.)  
 
“[T]he facts
constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect
and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the
pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407 (citing Covenant Care).)
“Allegations of misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not state a
cause of action against another defendant against whom the allegations of
misconduct are not directed.” (Id. at 410 (citation omitted).) “[W]hen a
plaintiff asserts a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is
nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.” (Larson
v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation
omitted).) Citing to the content of the definition of “neglect” in Welf. and
Inst. Code §15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated, “[w]hat they each seem to
contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking or custodial
relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has assumed a
significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of an
elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” (Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58.) “What seems beyond doubt
is that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing between – and decidedly
not lumping together – claims of professional negligence and neglect.” (Id. at
159.) 
 
“If some care is
provided, that will not necessarily absolve a care facility of [elder or]
dependent abuse liability. For example, if a care facility knows it must
provide a certain type of care on a daily basis but provides that care
sporadically or is supposed to provide multiple types of care but only provides
some of those types of care, withholding of care has occurred. In those cases,
the trier of fact must determine whether there is a significant pattern of
withholding portions or types of care. A significant pattern is one that
involves repeated withholding of care and leads to the conclusion that the
pattern was the result of choice or deliberate indifference.” (Sababin v.
Superior Court¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90.) 
 
Civil Code §3294
subdivision (b) provides, “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant
to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
            
Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs cannot pursue claims under California’s Elder and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act for professional negligence, as such claims require
more than ordinary negligence. Defendant explains that elder abuse claims must
involve custodial neglect or intentional misconduct beyond standard medical
negligence. (Benun v. Superior Court (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 113, 121.)
Plaintiffs' allegations, focused on inadequate wound care, do not meet this
threshold since wound care is considered professional, not custodial, care. Furthermore,
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to provide specific facts showing
recklessness or malice and simply repeated prior allegations without addressing
the court’s concerns. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31.) Defendant
requests dismissal of the elder abuse claim as inadequately pleaded.
 
            In opposition, Defendant points to paragraphs 49-51
regarding specific and particular allegations and 53, 54, and 56 regarding
authorization or ratification. (TAC ¶¶ 49-51, 53, 54, and 56.)
            
            
49. On or about January 27, 2019, DECEDENT was
admitted to KINDRED with pre-existing bed sores and wounds on her back and
other serious medical conditions. The bed sores and wounds required careful and
regular repositioning, hygiene, and wound care to allow them to heal, and to
prevent further deterioration, infection, and new bed sores and wounds. 
 
50. From the time of DECEDENT’s admission in 2019
until her death on DECEDENT’s daughter Dimitria Calhoun repeatedly requested
KINDRED to reposition DECEDENT frequently and to provide appropriate care for
her bed sores and wounds 
 
51. Despite the
request, KINDRED and its nursing staff violated California’s Welfare &
Institutions’ Code Sections 15600 et.seq. in the following manner: (a)
Repeatedly failed to reposition DECEDENT regularly, allowing her to remain in
positions that exacerbated her bed sores and wounds, and caused the breakout of
new bed sores and wounds; (b) Repeatedly failed to timely and adequately change
DECEDENT’s soiled linens and garments, allowing her wounds to come into contact
with feces and urine; (c) Repeatedly failed to clean and care for DECEDENT’s
wounds in a proper manner, resulting in infections and severe pain and
discomfort; (d) Repeatedly failed to provide basic hygiene, including bathing
and oral care, leaving DECEDENT in unsanitary conditions with foul odors; and
(e) Repeatedly failed to provide adequate nutrition and hydration, and
sometimes refusing to provide food and water. 
            
53. In April 2019, DECEDENT’s daughter, Plaintiff
DIMITRIA, requested and had a meeting with KINDRED’s CEO and Heads of
Departments. At the meeting DIMITRIA complained about the problems alleged in
paragraph 50 hereinabove, and pleaded for transfer to another facility, KINDRED
ORANGE, or a significant improvement in the care provided to DECEDENT, to
resolve all the problems mentioned above in paragraph 50. KINDRED denied the
transfer request and failed to improve the inhumane treatment of DECEDENT. 
 
54. The actions and omissions of Defendant KINDRED
and its staff were reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, and malicious, as defined
under California law, demonstrating a conscious disregard for Decedent’s
rights, safety, and wellbeing, warranting punitive damages under Welfare and
Institutions Code §15657. 
 
56. The actions of the employees of KINDRED and DOES
1-50 were ratified by KINDRED’s CEO and other Department Heads when they
decided not to take action against the employees or take remedial action to
provide proper care to DECEDENT. The CEO failed to remediate the care of
DECEDENT and Defendants allowed KINDRED staff to maintain the poor and
substandard care rendered to DECEDENT.
(TAC ¶¶ 49-51 and 53-56.)
 
In reply, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs' Opposition merely reiterates the general elements of
Elder Abuse without addressing specific deficiencies identified by the Court in
previous rulings. The TAC lacks concrete details, such as responsible
individuals, specific times, and actions, that are necessary to establish an
Elder Abuse claim. Plaintiffs rely on broad allegations of inadequate care but
do not specify facts supporting claims of willful or malicious conduct.
Additionally, Plaintiffs' assertions of ratification are nearly identical to
those in the prior complaint, failing to add any substantive detail. (Exhibit
8; Pg. 6.) Defendant contends this repetition shows a lack of genuine effort to
meet the Court’s requirements, and therefore, the demurrer to the elder abuse
cause of action should be sustained.
 
Previously, the
Court sustained the Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint as to the cause of
action for elder abuse because the pleaded facts did not “rise to the level of
oppression, fraud, or malice or a conscious disregard of the high probability
of such injury (unstageable bed sore).” (8/15/2024 Minute Order.) Furthermore,
the Court found that the Second Amended Complaint failed to plead any specific
facts that show an officer, director, or managing agent authorized the
Defendant’s employees’ conduct. (8/15/2024 Minute Order.) 
 
Plaintiff has
failed to plead new facts that show an officer, director, or managing agent
authorized Defendant’s employees' conduct. In the Opposition, Defendant pointed
to paragraphs 53, 54, and 56 of the TAC to prove that the TAC alleged
particular facts showing that an officer, director, or managing agent
authorized the misconduct. However, paragraphs 53 and 54 of the TAC are nearly
identical to paragraph 31 of the Second Amended Complaint, which the Court
found to be defective. (Second Amended Complaint ¶ 31; 8/15/2024 Minute
Order.)  
 
Furthermore,
paragraph 56 merely concludes that Defendant's CEO and other department heads
ratified the misconduct, and paragraph 54 merely concludes that Defendant was
reckless, fraudulent, and malicious. (TAC ¶¶ 54, 56.) Therefore, the Court
finds that TAC does not plead sufficient facts alleging that a managing agent
of Defendant authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct. Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s continuous late filing and repeated failure to adequately plead
facts to support a claim for elder abuse shows that an amendment cannot be made
to remedy this issue.
 
Therefore, the
Court sustains the Demurrer as to the first cause of action for elder abuse
without leave to amend.