  Case Number:  21STCV22811    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  40 
21STCV22811
 Xtractor Depot, LLC v. Usama Tohid
Thursday,
 December 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S PETITION TO VACATE
ARBITRATION AWARD
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD AND ENTER JUDGMENT
 
                                                 
I.         
BACKGROUND
The complaint alleges Plaintiff (“Employer” or
“Plaintiff”) hired Defendant (“Employee” or “Defendant”) as an engineer to
perform peer reviews and field verifications. Plaintiff discovered that
Defendant performed services for Plaintiff’s clients but diverted the payments
for those services to Defendant’s own competing business. Plaintiff alleges
claims for conversion, fraud and concealment, violation of Penal Code § 503,
and for a constructive trust. 
On November 5, 2021, the court granted Defendant Employee’s
motion to compel arbitration of Employer’s claims alleged here to be
consolidated with Employee’s FEHA and tort claims that were already being
arbitrated. 
                                                  
II.        
ARGUMENTS
Defendant moves to vacate the arbitration award on
grounds the Arbitrator exceeded his powers when the Arbitrator issued his final
award on August 8, 2024 awarding fees to Plaintiff Employer based on a
nondisclosure agreement (“NDA”) that the Arbitrator found to be unenforceable. Vacating
the award is warranted as the award cannot be corrected without affecting the
merits of the decision. Defendant urges the court to vacate the attorney’s fees
and costs awarded to Plaintiff as that award also contravened fee statute under
the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”). Even though Defendant Employee did
not prevail on his FEHA claims, the Act’s provisions permitting an award of fees
to the employer as a prevailing party must be based on a finding that the Employee’s
FEHA claims were frivolous. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
court’s power to review an arbitration award is extremely narrow. The court may
not review the award for errors of fact or law. Defendant’s contentions are
frivolous. The Arbitrator found some portions of the NDA unenforceable which
does not mean that fees could not be awarded pursuant to the portions of the
NDA that were lawful.
In reply, Defendant Employee argues that
the court does have authority to review and vacate arbitration awards that are
inconsistent with statutory rights or policies. The FEHA fee-shifting
provisions permit an award of fees only if the petitioner’s claims were
frivolous. Awarding fees to the Employer under the NDA is against public policy
since the Arbitrator declared it unenforceable. 
                                                  
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.      The
matters submitted to binding arbitration.
DEFENDANT EMPLOYEE’S CLAIMS (Kyle
Kubisch Decl , Ex. 3 , p.14.)
1)     
Wrongful
termination in violation of public policy for allegedly terminating Defendant
for reporting Defendants’ federal and state violations
2)     
Whistleblower
retaliation
3)     
Retaliation
in violation of FEHA
4)     
Breach
of oral and implied-in-fact contract
5)     
Fraud
6)     
Common
counts 
7)     
Money
had and received
8)     
Violation
of Bus & Prof Code § 17200
9)     
Accounting
and
10) 
 declaratory relief
 
PLAINTIFF EMPLOYER’S COUNTER
CLAIMS (Kubisch decl., Ex. 4, p. 14)
1)     
Conversion
for interfering with Plaintiff’s revenue
2)     
Fraud/Concealment
for representing to Plaintiff’s clients to issue payment to him
3)     
Violation
of Penal Code § 503 (embezzlement)
4)     
Imposition
of a constructive trust for funds wrongfully obtained by Defendant 
5)      Misappropriation
of trade secrets
THE ARBITRATOR’S FINDINGS
(IN RELEVANT PART) (Kubisch decl., Ex. 5.)
Defendant Employee prevailed on the 10th cause
of action for declaratory relief. The Arbitrator found that portions of the NDA
were fatally overbroad, unlawful restraints of trade or profession, contrary to
California law and therefore, unenforceable. (Id., Ex. 5, p. 4 ¶ 21-22, 26.) Defendant’s remaining claims were
rejected. (Kubisch decl., Ex. 6, Partial Final Order p. 28, ¶¶ 126
and 129;  p. 29, ¶125; p. 29 ¶ 129; p.29 ¶ 131.) 
The Employer prevailed on its counterclaims for
conversion, fraud, and concealment, and was awarded compensatory damages,  (Id. p.33, ¶ 149; p. 35 ¶ 159.)
The award of fees and costs were covered in a Final
Award, discussed below. 
B.      ANALYSIS
The court shall confirm an award as made
unless it corrects the award as permitted by statute and confirms it as
corrected, or vacates the award, or dismisses the proceeding. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.) The
court may vacate the award for grounds articulated by statute which includes a
determination that the arbitrators “exceeded their powers and the award cannot
be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy
submitted." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.2 subd. (a)(4).)
A court’s review of an arbitration award
is extremely limited. While an arbitrator’s award "is not generally
reviewable for errors of fact or law, whether or not such error appears on the
face of the award and causes substantial injustice to the parties," there
are narrow exceptions. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 11.) Judicial review is
permitted where illegality of contract exists. If the illegality, however, goes
only to a portion of the contract, "the entire controversy, including the
issue of illegality, remains arbitrable.” (Moncharsh
at 30.) Judicial review is permitted if the arbitrator’s decision is
incompatible with the protection of a statutory right or public policy. (Moncharsh
at 33.) 
As previously stated, Employee prevailed
only on his declaratory relief claim based on a finding that portions of
the NDA were overbroad, unlawful restraints of trade or profession, contrary to
California law and therefore unenforceable. (Id., Ex. 5, p. 4 ¶ 21-22, 26.) Defendant’s
contention that fees could not be awarded pursuant to the NDA because the
Arbitrator found that the “primary provisions” were unenforceable, is without
merit. (Pet. 9:12-13.).
The Arbitrator determined that Plaintiff
Employer received the greater relief on the contract claims alleged by the
parties (Kubich decl., Ex. 18, ¶ 32-33.) The Final Award concluded that the
dominant component of the case was “Claimant’s own oral/implied-in-fact
contract claim – and his diversion and retention of client payments pursuant to
that alleged contract.” (Ex. 18, ¶ 32). Plaintiff employer prevailed on that claim,
and was therefore, the prevailing party. (Id.) ¶ 33.) 
The Arbitrator noted that Defendant
challenged some portions of the NDA but did not challenge the portion that
stated: “’The arbitrator shall, in the Award, allocate … the actual expert and
attorneys’ fees incurred by the prevailing party, to the losing party.’ That
language is unambiguous.” (Ex. 18, p. 14 ¶ 43.) The entire NDA was not
invalidated. The fee provision was not “void ab initio” as Plaintiff
contends. (Pet. 18:15-16.) Accordingly, Defendant has not established that
awarding fees under a provision of the NDA that Defendant did not seek to
invalidate does not demonstrate that the Arbitrator exceeded his powers. 
 
Under FEHA, the court may award fees and
costs to the prevailing party, however, "a prevailing defendant shall not
be awarded fees and costs unless the court finds the action was frivolous,
unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff continued to
litigate after it clearly became so.” (Gov.
Code, § 12965 subd. (c)(6).)  Employee acknowledges that his
employment-related claims were rejected. (Pet., 1:15-17.) 
The Arbitrator determined that the “record
herein contains no credible evidence whatsoever to support Claimant’s
[Defendant Employee] wrongful termination, whistleblower, and/or unlawful
retaliation claims … . Therefore, for purposes of determining an award of
attorneys’ fees and legal expenses in this case, the Arbitrator finds those
claims to have been groundless, unreasonable, and/or totally and completely
without merit, i.e., frivolous.” (Kubisch decl., Ex. 18, ¶ 50.) 
While Defendant contends the Partial
Final Award (“PFA”) did not find that Defendant’s claims were frivolous, the PFA
makes clear that fees and expenses and allocation thereof would be reserved for
the Final Award; the PFA resolved the compensatory damage claims.[1]
As noted above the Final Award made the findings that triggered the fee
shifting provisions of section 12965, allowing for an award of fees to the
employer. The award of fees were made on express findings by the arbitrator grounded
in the evidence and permitted by statute and cannot be “against public policy” to
constitute grounds for vacating the award as being in excess of the
Arbitrator’s power.
To the extent Defendant disagrees with
the Arbitrator’s finding or argues it is erroneous or contrary to law, that
issue is not subject to review by the trial court under Moncharsh.
Defendant argues here as he did at the
time of arbitration that the fee award to Plaintiff Employer violated the
principles articulated in Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 110–111 [“The arbitration agreement or arbitration
process cannot generally require the employee to bear any type of
expense that the employee would not be required to bear if he or she were free
to bring the action in court. This rule will ensure that employees bringing
FEHA claims will not be deterred by costs greater than the usual costs incurred
during litigation, costs that are essentially imposed on an employee by the
employer."].)
The Arbitrator rejected Defendant’s
argument, concluding that Armendariz was not focused on attorney’s fees
“but on arbitral ‘forum costs,’ i.e., ‘the often substantial costs of
arbitrators and arbitration’ which could effectively prevent employees ‘from
vindicating their FEHA right’ if employees were required to share or bear such ‘arbitration-specific
costs.’” (Kubisch Decl., Ex. 18, ¶ 46. The Arbitrator concluded that Armendariz
and its progeny did not address the issues here: “whether an employee who affirmatively
chooses to initiate – and indeed to compel – arbitration [citation omitted] against
an employer pursuant to an arbitration clause in an employment-related
agreement can thereby fully insulate himself from an award of attorneys’ fees
even if his FEHA-related claim (a) is only one of numerous claims and
counterclaims asserted [citation omitted] and (b) wholly lacks merit to the
point of appearing pretextual or frivolously asserted [citation omitted]. Herein,
the Arbitrator specifically held that Claimant’s various wrongful termination
claims were ‘unsubstantiated and lacking in credibility.’” (Kubich Decl., Ex.
18, ¶ 47. 
The Arbitrator observed that all of the
Employer’s claims arose out of or in connection with the NDA, and “are all
explicitly dependent on and/or inextricably intertwined with the obligations
created under the NDA and those which are already the subject of the pending
JAMS arbitration.” (Kubisch Decl., Ex. 18, ¶ 49.)
This court cannot review an Arbitrator’s
conclusion for legal error. Given Defendant’s insistence throughout the
litigation that the Employer’s claims were grounded in the NDA, Defendant has
not persuasively established that awarding fees pursuant to the NDA, based on a
provision that Defendant did not challenge would be against public policy,
illegal, or unenforceable.  
                                                
IV.       
CONCLUSION

As Defendant has not
demonstrated that the Arbitrator exceeded his power to warrant vacating the
award. Accordingly, Defendant’s petition is DENIED. 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD AND ENTER JUDGMENT
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS
Plaintiff moves for an order to confirm the arbitration
award which is required unless the court corrects the award, confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.). Plaintiff
argues that there are no grounds to vacate the award and must render a judgment
confirming it. 
In opposition, Defendant incorporates his arguments in
his Petition to Vacate the Arbitration Award and notes that he has paid damages
awarded to Plaintiff in the Partial Final Award.
In reply, Plaintiff informs that Defendant paid
$365,587.62 to satisfy the order for restitution in the criminal proceeding,
which does not resolve civil liability. 
II.     
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
In a separate ruling, the court found that Defendant did
not provide a basis for vacating the award. Without any basis for vacating the
award, the court “shall” confirm the award as made. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Confirm the Arbitration
Award. Plaintiff is ordered to submit a proposed judgment. 
 


