  Case Number:  23TRCV02424    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka       Wednesday, October 23, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Shean
Washington v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al.
23TRCV02425
1.     
Shean
Washington’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set Two
2.     
Shean
Washington’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable and
Request for Sanctions  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Shean Washington’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, is denied.
 
Shean Washington’s Motion to Compel Deposition of
Person Most Knowledgeable and Request for Sanctions is granted, in part, and
denied, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on July 26, 2023. This
is a “Lemon Law” case brought by Plaintiff concerning a 2017 Honda Odyssey. Plaintiff
alleges that the vehicle suffers from widespread defects, including transmission,
engine, electrical, and emission system defects. Defendant has been unable to
repair their vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an inspection demand shall
respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)   
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth a meet and
confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Chris Grigoryan, ¶¶ 20-23.) 
 
            Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 10, 14, 23, 24, 33, 37,
46, 47, 56, 60, 69, and 70. As to each of the requests at issue in the motion,
the motion to compel further responses is denied. Defendant served
responses that are fully compliant with CCP § 2031.230.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230 states:
“A representation of inability to comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.”
 
Here, Defendant served responses that indicate it did
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and that the documents requested never
existed.  In the memorandum of points and
authorities, Plaintiff appears to believe that documents related to matters
such as powertrain control modules, body control modules, warranties, customer
complaints, and refunds should be produced.  However, the requests at issue here do not
specifically seek such documents. Should Plaintiff seek such documents,
Plaintiff should serve discovery requests that are specifically framed to seek
such documents.  
 
Thus, the motion to compel further responses to
Requests 10, 14, 23, 24, 33, 37, 46, 47, 56, 60, 69, and 70 is denied.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
The
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling appearance at
the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the deposition notice,
from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce materials requested in
the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid objection under §
2025.410(a).  CCP § 2025.450(a).  
 
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). Plaintiff set forth a
meet and confer declaration stating that Plaintiff contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance. (Declaration, Chris Grigoryan, ¶¶ 22-27.)
 
Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant to produce its person most
knowledgeable for deposition and to produce documents at the deposition. The
motion is made on the grounds that the deponent failed to appear for the
noticed date of the deposition and Defendant has failed to make the deponent
available for deposition. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions. Defendant filed a
written opposition stating that it has never refused to appear for deposition
but simply seeks to obtain a mutually agreeable date for the deposition.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel deposition is granted, in part. The deponent is ordered to
appear for the deposition at a date and time that can be agreed upon by the
parties. The other requests sought by Plaintiff including striking objections
are denied. 
 
In
addition, the Court believes that the issues contemplated in this motion could
have easily been resolved by the parties without the need for court
intervention. The Court will not hesitate to impose sanctions in the future if
such conduct persists.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied. The notice of motion is defective
with respect to sanctions. Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 states, in relevant
part: “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every
person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify
the type of sanction sought.” Here, the notice of the motion failed to identify
every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanctions are sought. In
addition, even had the notice been sufficient, Defendant provided facts showing
substantial justification for its actions since Defendant was merely attempting
to obtain an agreeable date and time for the deposition.
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 