 Case Number:  23TRCV03603    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka     Wednesday, October 23, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 12  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Reginald
W. Gunn v. General Motors LLC, et al.   
23TRCV03603
1.     
General Motors
LLC’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
2.     
General Motors
LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint is overruled.
 
General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of First
Amended Complaint is denied.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on July 19, 2023.
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint on July 17, 2024. Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff alleges that his 2023 Chevrolet Silverado suffers
from various defects including engine defects, electrical defects, transmission
defects, and other non-conformities. Plaintiff set forth a cause of action
under the Song-Beverly Act, Breach of Warranty, and a cause of action for
Fraudulent Inducement- Concealment. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5. (Decls., Xylon Quezada.)
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action for
Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment for failure to state sufficient facts to
state a cause of action.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Inducement-Concealment 

Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
“A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.
 
The circumstances that could support a duty to
disclose are as follows: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship
with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” Heliotis v.
Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.
 
“Every element of the cause of action for fraud must
be alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the
nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
“[T]he economic loss rule provides: [W]here a
purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought
is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses. This doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn
between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes where
economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and those
involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are
injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law
of torts. The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract
for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he can
demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise. Quite simply,
the economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of tort from
dissolving one into the other.” Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
“[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also
violates a duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort
law. An omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless that
omission is also an omission of a legal duty.” Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Plaintiff alleges the requisite specific facts to
state a cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment. Plaintiff
alleges specific facts as to Defendant’s concealment of material facts, namely
as to the alleged defect of the 8-speed transmission. (FAC, ¶¶ 71-76.)
Plaintiff alleges specific facts to state Defendant’s duty to disclose the
information based on exclusive knowledge and active concealment of material
facts. (FAC, ¶¶ 70-80.) Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to meet the
remaining elements of intent to conceal, Plaintiff’s lack of knowledge, and
resulting damages. (FAC, ¶¶ 77-86.) 
 
Defendant argues that it had no direct involvement
with Plaintiff and thus could not have concealed any information from Plaintiff
directly, i.e., that it did not have a transactional relationship with
Plaintiff and that Plaintiff simply dealt with a third-party dealership.
However, as noted above, “[t]here are four circumstances in which nondisclosure
or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.” LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336 (internal quotation omitted). 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleged sufficient facts that
Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the materials and information that were concealed,
and that Defendant actively concealed a material fact. Plaintiff alleges that:
“while Defendant GM knew about the Transmission Defect, and its safety risks
since prior to Plaintiff’s purchase of the Subject Vehicle. Defendant GM and
its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, and/or agents nevertheless
concealed and failed to disclose the defective nature of the Vehicle, its 8-
speed transmission to Plaintiff prior to and at the time of sale. Had Plaintiff
known that the Vehicle suffered from the Transmission Defect, Plaintiff would
not have purchased the Vehicle. In other words, Defendant GM’s concealment of
this safety defect was material and Plaintiff relied on Defendant GM’s
advertising materials which did not disclose the defect. As a result, the
purchase of the Subject Vehicle was fraudulently induced.”  (FAC, ¶ 77.)  “Defendant GM acquired its knowledge of the
Transmission Defect and its potential consequences prior to Plaintiff acquiring
the subject vehicle, though sources not available to consumers such as
Plaintiff, including but not limited to pre- production testing data, early
consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant GM
and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from GM’s network
of dealers, testing conducted by Defendant GM in response to these complaints, as
well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by Defendant GM
from Defendant GM’s network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal
information.”  (Id. at ¶ 80.) Plaintiff
alleges the existence of a transactional relationship through the entering into
a warranty contract with Defendant.  (FAC,
¶¶ 6-7.) 
 
In addition, as to the specificity requirement to
plead fraud, that requirement may be relaxed when Defendant has superior
knowledge and/or full knowledge of the facts. Practical considerations may make
specificity of pleadings impractical when the facts are within a Defendant’s
knowledge. Committee on Children's Television v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197.  
 
With respect to the issue of whether the economic loss
rule precludes Plaintiff’s cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement, the
instant Court elects to follow the persuasive authority set forth in Dhital
v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828.  Based on factual allegations that are
remarkably similar to the allegations set forth in the instant action the Court
held as follows: “under California law, the economic loss rule does not bar
plaintiffs’ claim here for fraudulent inducement by concealment. Fraudulent
inducement claims fall within an exception to the economic loss rule recognized
by our Supreme Court (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp. 989–990,
22 Cal.Rptr.3d 352, 102 P.3d 268), and plaintiffs allege fraudulent conduct
that is independent of Nissan's alleged warranty breaches.”  Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843. The Court is mindful that the California
Supreme Court has accepted petition for review in Dhital v. Nissan North
America (Cal. 2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82.  The Supreme Court then stated that “[f]urther
action in this matter is deferred pending consideration and disposition of a
related issue in Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc., S272113 (see Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 8.512(d)(2)), or pending further order of the court. Submission
of additional briefing, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.520, is
deferred pending further order of the court.”  Id. at 82-83. 
 
Without a clear determination of the time frame upon
which both Rattagan and Dhital will be resolved in the California
Supreme Court, the Court cannot delay ruling on this issue. If a clear time
frame was apparent and the time frame was not too great, the Court would have
considered continuing the hearing. However, as it is, it appears that a ruling
on these cases could be many months away. Therefore, the Court elects to rule
on the issue utilizing the persuasive authority of Dhital which itself
relied on Robinson.
 
Thus, Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is overruled. 
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP §
436(a).  The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. 
CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendant moves to strike the following: “demand “g.
For punitive damages” in the Prayer for Relief.” (Notice of Motion, page 2,
lines 5-6.) 
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
 
Plaintiffs set forth sufficient specific facts that
Defendant acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally, fraudulently, and/or
recklessly to support Plaintiffs’ allegations and prayer for punitive damages
pursuant to the properly stated fifth cause of action for Fraudulent
Inducement-Concealment.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is denied.
Defendant is ordered to file and serve an Answer
within 10 days of this date.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.