  Case Number:  24VECV01709    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  W HOVSEP
GASPARYAN, et al. vs VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, inc.
 
plaintiffs’ motions to compel further responses 
 
Date
of Hearing:        October
22, 2024                                           Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV01709
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiffs Hovsep
Gasparyan and Akop Gasparyan 
Responding
Party:     Defendant Volkswagen Group of
America, Inc.    
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Thomas decl. ¶¶6-9.)[1]

 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On April 15, 2024, Plaintiffs Hovsep
Gasparyan and Akop Gasparyan filed a complaint against Defendants Volkswagen
Group of America, Inc. and Sherman Oaks-A, Inc. dba Audi Van Nuys for Violation
of Song-Beverly Act and Negligent Repair. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Form
Interrogatories to Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. is MOOT.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Admissions to
Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Request for Production of
Documents to Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. is GRANTED, in part. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiffs Hovsep
Gasparyan and Akop Gasparyan move the court for an order compelling further
responses from Defendant Volkswagen Group of America to Plaintiff’s First Set
of Special Interrogatories, Set One, First Set of Form Interrogatories, First
Set of Requests for Admissions, and First Set of Requests for Production of
Documents. Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions against Defendant Volkswagen
Group of America, Inc. and its attorney of record, Squire Patton Boggs (US),
LLP. 
 
Interrogatories
 
Plaintiffs seek
further responses to Plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories, Set One Nos. 15.1 and
17.1. The court notes Plaintiffs have withdrawn their motion to compel further
Special Interrogatories due to inadvertently filing and serving the wrong
document. 
 
“On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(a).)¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(b).)¿ In addition, a separate statement is
required.¿ (California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiffs argue Form
Interrogatory 15.1 seeks the factual basis for each and every denial of a
material allegation, special defense, and affirmative defense asserted by VWGoA,
including identification of and contact information for all percipient
witnesses, as well as documents or things which support said denials and
defenses. The host of objections Defendant asserts makes it clear that
Defendant fundamentally—and perhaps deliberately—misunderstands the nature of
Form Interrogatories. Form Interrogatory 17.1 seeks the factual basis for every
response to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Admission that is not an
unqualified admission, along with the identities of persons and documents that
would support these facts. Defendant’s response lumps together RFAs 1-6, 8, 10,
11, 14, 17, 19, 20-23 and 30-34 and provides a single catch-all response.
 
In reply, Plaintiffs
assert on October 8, 2024, Defendant served Code-compliant supplemental
responses to Form Interrogatories 15.1 and 17.1. Plaintiffs therefore no longer
seek further responses to these Form Interrogatories. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Form
Interrogatories to Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. is MOOT. 
 
The court notes
Plaintiffs also request sanctions in the amount of $1,305.00 (reduced amount
requested in Reply). The court further notes Plaintiffs have requested
additional sanctions in the amount of $3,615.00 for reviewing oppositions,
reviewing tentative rulings and fees incurred in filing the three motions. The
court DENIES the request for sanctions as defendants’ position was
substantially justified and all of this expense could have been avoided through
a more vigorous and meaningful meet and confer effort by plaintiff. 
 
Request for
Admissions
 
Plaintiffs seek
further responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Admissions, Set One, Nos. 12, 13
and 18. 
 
A motion to compel further responses may be brought based on responses to
requests for admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete answers;
or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (CCP §
2033.290(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs argue
Defendant’s objections to RFA Nos. 12, 13, and 18 are without merit and further
responses must be ordered. Defendant objected to each request on the grounds
they are vague and ambiguous, vague as to time and not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. In bringing this motion,
Plaintiffs assert they will limit the applicability of RFAs 12 and 13 to the
period the Subject Vehicle has been in existence and RFA 13 to California.
Plaintiffs argue RFAs 12 and 13 are relevant because they address Defendant’s
policies, procedures and practices for collecting information and providing
such information to the individuals who evaluate repurchase/replacement
requests and the relevance of RFA 18 cannot be seriously questioned. 
 
In opposition,
Defendant VWGoA argues Requests for Admission Nos. 12, 13, and 18 all seek
information regarding VWGoA’s Policies and Procedures. VWGoA produced all the
Policy and Procedure Documents in their Confidential Document Production to
Plaintiffs on August 8, 2024. 
 
The court finds
further responses warranted. Whether or not VWGoA produced relevant documents
does not mean they then do not have to answer requests for admissions. With the
limitations to the period the Subject Vehicle has been in existence and to
California, the court finds the requests for admissions relevant and answerable
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of
Requests for Admissions to Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. is
GRANTED. 
 
The court notes
Plaintiffs also request sanctions in the amount of $1,305.00 (reduced amount
requested in Reply). The court DENIES the request for sanctions as both
parties’ positions were substantially justified. 
 
Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
Plaintiffs seek
further responses to RFPs 1-15, 17, 18, 19-32, 37, 40-41 and 45-46 on the
grounds Defendant’s boilerplate objections are without merit, are not
code-compliant, and Defendant improperly rewrites the requests and answers its
own questions instead. 
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to requests
for production of documents where a statement of compliance is incomplete or
where a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  A motion to compel further response to
requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)
 
The court notes in
Reply, Plaintiffs contend Defendant served supplemental responses to RFPs 16,
17 and 33-36 that identify by bates number ranges responsive documents it has
produced. Plaintiffs therefore do not seek further production of documents in
response to these RFPs. As such, the remaining discovery in dispute are RFPs 3,
4, 6-15, 20-32 and 38-39. 
 
Plaintiffs argue RFP
18 (request for the operative Franchise Agreement) is relevant and discoverable
for three primary reasons: (1) showing the extent of the agency relationship
between Defendant and the dealership; (2) it is relevant to any motion to
compel arbitration; and (3) it will show the reciprocal obligations of
Defendant and the dealership to provide information to each other regarding
diagnosis and repair of Defendant’s vehicles. 
 
In regards to RFPs 3,
4, 6-15, 20-32 and 38-39, Plaintiffs argue Defendant states in part
“interpreting the request as excluding privileged communications between VWGoA
and its attorneys,” but this is not something Defendant has the right to do.
Moreover, in its responses to RFPs 1-2, 4-15, 19-32 and 38-39, Defendant states
it is producing all responsive documents “to which no objection has been made,”
but provides none of the information required by Code of Civil Procedure §
2031.240 regarding documents to which objections had been made.
 
The court finds
further responses warranted. Defendant cannot alter the requests. They can
appropriately produce non-privileged documents and provide a privilege log.
Moreover, the responses do not with particularity specify the documents to
which an objection is being made, and it does not provide sufficient factual
information for Plaintiffs to evaluate the merits of Defendant’s privilege
claim. 
 
The court Plaintiffs
have not demonstrated good cause for the franchise agreement (RFP 18). The
court notes Plaintiffs’ contention that Defendant has produced documents
responsive to RFP 18 in four cases. However, Plaintiffs have not established
good cause in this action, except for a potential, yet unfiled motion to compel
arbitration.  Plaintiffs have stated that
they will withdraw this request if defendants stipulate they will not move to
compel arbitration.  The court agrees
that defendants cannot have it both way. 
If they intend to move to compel arbitration, the agreement must be
produced.  If they do not, the court will
deem the request withdrawn.  
 
With regard to RFPs
37 and 40-41, Plaintiffs argue these RFPs seek documents that would explain the
various codes used as a shorthand in the repair orders and other internal
documents produced by Defendant. 
 
The opposition states
Defendant has already produced documents in response to these requests. It is
unclear from the Reply whether all responsive documents were actually produced
or not. At the hearing, the parties must explain whether all responsive documents
have been produced. If not, Defendant is ordered to do so. 
 
With regard to RFPs 45-46,
Plaintiffs will limit the RFPs to California. It is unclear whether all
responsive documents have now been produced. At the hearing, the parties must
explain whether all responsive documents have been produced. If not, Defendant
is ordered to do so.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ First
Set of Request for Production of Documents to Defendant Volkswagen Group of
America, Inc. is GRANTED, in part. 
 
The court notes
Plaintiffs also request sanctions in the amount of $2,385.00 (reduced amount
requested in Reply). The court DENIES the request for sanctions. 
 


