 Case Number:  24VECV03198    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  W YARIV SHOCHAT
vs PORSCHE CARS NORTH AMERICA, INC., et al.
 
defendant ed
carroll motor company, inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay further
proceeding pending arbitration 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
22, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV03198
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Ed Carroll Motor Company, Inc.  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Yariv Shochat
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On
September 13, 2024, Plaintiff Yariv Shochat filed a complaint against
Defendants Porsche Cars North America, Inc., WHN, Inc. dba Porsche Woodland
Hills, and Ed Carroll Motor Co., Inc. for violation of the Song-Beverly Act,
negligent repair, violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, violation of
the Colorado Consumer Protection Act, fraudulent inducement – concealment and
negligent misrepresentation. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Ed
Carroll Motor Company, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Further
Proceedings Pending Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff
submits objections to the declaration of Scott Allen. Objections 1 – 3 are
OVERRULED.         
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Ed Carroll Motor Company,
Inc. moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit his individual claims
alleged in his First Amended Complaint against Defendant Ed Carroll to
arbitration and stay the proceeding pending competition of arbitration.
Defendants Porsche Cars North America, Inc. (“PCNA”) and WHN, Inc. dba Porsche
Woodland Hills (“PWH”) joins in Defendant Ed Carroll’s motion to compel
arbitration and stay action. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy . . . the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists,” unless
the court finds that the right to compel arbitration has been “waived by the
petitioner,” or that “grounds exist for recission” of the arbitration
agreement. (CCP § 1281.2(a), (b).) 
 
A written arbitration agreement is
“valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (CCP § 1281.) “The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) “The
general rule is that only a party to an arbitration agreement may enforce it.”
(Ronay Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830,
837.) 
 
Defendant Ed Carroll argues Plaintiff entered
into an enforceable agreement to arbitrate all disputes arising from his
purchase of the 2019 Porsche 911 GT3 RS, which he purchased from Defendant Ed
Carroll. According to Defendant, the Agreement stated that all claims arising
out of the Subject Vehicle’s sale must be sent to binding arbitration by a
neutral arbitrator upon request by either party to the Agreement. Because
Plaintiff’s claims arise out of defects to the Subject Vehicle, Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s claims fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration
provision of the Agreement signed, acknowledged, and understood by Plaintiff. 
 
There is no dispute over the existence
of the arbitration agreement or that Plaintiff signed the arbitration
agreement. Rather, Plaintiff opposes the arbitration agreement on the grounds
Defendant Ed Carroll fraudulently induced Plaintiff to enter into a purchase
agreement with an arbitration clause and there is no arbitration agreement that
covers Plaintiff's claims against Defendant Porsche NA and Defendant Porsche
WHN, which as a result, could lead to a serious possibility of conflicting
rulings on common issues of law or fact. 
 
Plaintiff first argues not only was
Plaintiff fraudulently induced to enter into an arbitration agreement because
Defendants engaged in fraudulent conduct that led Plaintiff to agree to the
arbitration clause, but there was fraud at the inception and execution of
making of the purchase agreement containing the arbitration agreement. Plaintiff
contends Defendants’ fraudulent conduct regarding the condition and
certification of the Subject Vehicle affected the foundation of Plaintiff’s
agreement to purchase the vehicle and, by extension, the arbitration agreement
that was part of the purchase. Specifically, Defendant assured that the vehicle
was a Porsche NA Certified Pre-Owned vehicle meeting the high standards set by
Defendant Porsche NA, which was a significant factor in Plaintiff’s decision to
purchase the vehicle. Moreover, Defendant failed to disclose crucial
information about the vehicle’s actual condition including the vehicle had been
tracked for over 1,500 miles and that the vehicle had severe rock chip damage
from track use. 
 
The court finds the claims still
arbitrable even if fraudulently induced in entering the arbitration agreement.
Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing there was fraud in the inception or
execution. However, Plaintiff has shown fraud in the inducement. "California
law distinguishes between fraud in the “execution” or “inception” of a contract
and fraud in the “inducement” of a contract. In brief, in the former case “
‘the fraud goes to the inception or execution of the agreement, so that the
promisor is deceived as to the nature of his act, and actually does not know
what he is signing, or does not intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual
assent is lacking, and [the contract] is void. In such a case it may be
disregarded without the necessity of rescission.’ ” [Citation.] Fraud in the
inducement, by contrast, occurs when “ ‘the promisor knows what he is signing
but his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is
formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable. In order to escape from its
obligations the aggrieved party must rescind....’ ” [Citation.]” (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415.) 
 
Here, as stated by the court in Rosenthal,
“[b]y entering into the arbitration agreement, the parties established their
intent that disputes coming within the agreement's scope be determined by an
arbitrator rather than a court; this contractual intent must be respected even
with regard to claims of fraud in the inducement of the contract generally.” (Rosenthal,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 416.) Here, Plaintiff does not deny he entered
the arbitration agreement with the intent that disputes arising out of the agreement
would be arbitrated. Plaintiff merely contends he would not have entered the
agreement had he known the issues with the Subject Vehicle. 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues the motion to
compel arbitration should be denied because there is no arbitration agreement
governing the claims against Defendants Porsche NA and Porsche WHN and these
Defendants cannot use estoppel or third-party beneficiary arguments to enforce
arbitration. As such, if the court were to compel arbitration, there could be a
possibility of inconsistent rulings. The court agrees. Under the Ford Motor
Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, the Second District found that
equitable estoppel nor third party beneficiary applied to manufacturers who
were not parties to the sales contract. Similarly here, Plaintiff’s claims
against Defendants Porsche NA and Porsche WHN do not rely or depend on the
existence or terms of the Purchase Agreement and the agreement does not show
consent to arbitrate claims with third party nonsignatories. 
 
As a result, there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on between the claims. Given the possibility of conflicting
rulings, the court finds that no claims should be sent to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c).
 
Accordingly, Defendant Ed Carroll Motor Company, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and Stay Further Proceedings Pending Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
 
 