 Case Number:  24VECV02100    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  W NAZELI DOBADZHYAN vs VENUS BANQUET, INC., et al.
 
demurrer
to the first amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 22, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV02100
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Vagik Sarkisyan and
Artour Ambartsoumyan
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Nazeli Dobadzhyan
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Fagerholm Decl. ¶¶2-4.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is an employment action. Plaintiff alleges she was employed by Defendants as an
exempt employee at their business. However, Plaintiff alleges she was misclassified
as an Independent Contractor and during the last year of Plaintiff’s employment
with Defendants, Plaintiff was not compensated at all, under the false promise
that Plaintiff would become a “partner” in the business owned and operated by
Defendants. Plaintiff alleges she was never paid her wages due and owed to her
during her employment or upon termination. 
 
On
August 14, 2024, Plaintiff Dobadzhyan filed a First Amended Complaint against
Defendants Venus Banquet, Inc., Vagik Sarkisyan, Artour Ambartsoumyan, and
Edvin Baghumian for (1) Failure to Pay Wages; (2) Waiting Time Penalties (Labor
Code §§ 201-203); (3) Failure to Provide Accurate Itemized Wage Statements
(Labor Code § 226); (4) Failure to Timely Pay Wages Upon Termination (Labor
Code § 201, 202, and 203); and (5) Unfair Competition (Bus & Prof Code §
17200 et seq.).
 
Request
for entry of default was entered against Venus Banquet, Inc. and Edvin
Baghumian on June 27, 2024. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendants
Vagik Sarkisyan and Artour Ambartsoumyan’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
Vagik Sarkisyan and Artour Ambartsoumyan demur to the First Amended Complaint
on the grounds all causes of action against Defendants are unintelligible and
fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action against
Defendants. 
 
In¿a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.¿(2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.¿v.¿Accountants, Inc. Servs.¿(2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  
 
Defendants
demur to the amended complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs’ broad and
overreaching allegations are not sufficient to state a claim under Labor Code
section 558.1. Labor Code section 558.1 provides as follows: “Any employer or
other person acting on behalf of an employer, who violates, or causes to be
violated, any provision regulating minimum wages or hours and days of work in
any order of the Industrial Welfare Commission, or violates, or causes to be
violated, Sections 203, 226, 226.7, 1193.6, 1194, or 2802, may be held liable
as the employer for such violation.” (Lab. Code § 558.1(a).) Defendants contend
simply relying on Defendants Sarkisyan and Ambartsoumyan’s respective status as
corporate officers is insufficient to state a claim under section 558.1. (See Espinoza
v. Hepta Run, Inc. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 44.) Moreover, Plaintiff alleges no
facts bearing on Sarkisyan and Ambartsoumyan’s involvement in any violation of
sections 201 and 203 and does not sufficiently allege a section 226 violation.
Defendants also argue even if the violations are deemed to be adequately
alleged by this court, Plaintiff’s description of Sarkisyan and Ambartsoumyan’s
involvement therein is a mere conclusion of law.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues there are two theories of liability alleged
against Defendants. Firstly, that Defendants are liable pursuant to Labor Code section
558.1 and secondly, that Defendants are the alter ego of Venus Banquet, Inc.
Plaintiffs contend under Labor Code section 558.1, the FAC explicitly alleges
that Defendants Sarkisyan, Ambartsoumyan, and Baghumian were all involved in
the management and control of Venus Banquet, Inc., including decisions related
to employee wages and misclassification. By approving of these wage practices,
Plaintiffs contend they are liable under Section 558.1 for their direct
actions, not merely due to their titles. These allegations, according to
Plaintiff, allege way more than conclusions of law including specific
allegations that Defendants failed to pay final wages upon termination, including
earned commissions, and violated Sections 201 and 203 by willfully refusing to
pay Plaintiff’s wages and failing to list total hours worked and proper pay
rates in violation of Section 226. As for the alter ego allegations, Plaintiff
argues the FAC sufficiently alleges facts supporting alter ego liability,
demonstrating a unity of interest between the individual Defendants and Venus
Banquet, Inc. (See FAC ¶¶10-14, 16-19.) 
 
The
court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to support their claims
for violation of labor laws against Defendants Vagik Sarkisyan and Artour
Ambartsoumyan. As noted by Plaintiff, Defendants did not request judicial
notice and is instead, challenging factual claims. Based on the amended
complaint, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged Defendants could be liable for
the violations of Labor Code Sections 201, 203 and 226. As noted by both
parties, “in order to ‘cause’ a violation of the Labor Code, an individual must
have engaged in some affirmative action beyond his or her status as an owner,
officer or director of the corporation. However, that does not necessarily mean
the individual must have had involvement in the day-to-day operations of the company,
nor is it required the individual authored the challenged employment policies
or specifically approved their implementation. But to be held personally liable
he or she must have had some oversight of the company's operations or some
influence on corporate policy that resulted in Labor Code violations.” (Espinoza,
supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 59.) 
 
In
the instant matter, Plaintiff has alleged more than just liability against
Defendants as their position as owners, shareholders, officers, directors,
and/or managing agents of Defendant Venus Banquet, Inc. Plaintiff has alleged
Defendants aware
that Plaintiff was improperly paid, not paid, and misclassified yet continued
to approve the wage and hour violations concerning Plaintiff and collectively
made decisions related to the employee management and payment of wages. This is
sufficient of the purposes of a demurrer. 
Moreover, as noted by Plaintiff, determining whether an owner violated,
or caused to be violated, certain wage and hour laws within the meaning of
Section 558.1 "cannot be determined by any bright line rule, as this
inquiry requires an examination of the particular facts in light of the
conduct, or lack thereof[.]” (Usher v. White (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 883,
897.) The court further notes the alter ego allegations sufficient for the
purposes of a demurrer. (See FAC ¶¶10-14, 16-19.)
 
Accordingly,
Defendants Vagik Sarkisyan and Artour Ambartsoumyan’s Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
 
 