 Case Number:  23AHCV00284    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTI MACKEY, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
BRECKENRIDGE
   PROPERTY FUND 2016, LLC,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00284
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF MARTI MACKEY’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 18,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On February 8, 2023, plaintiff Marti
Mackey filed this action against defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC
(“Defendant”) asserting a cause of action for adverse possession. Plaintiff
alleges that they have resided at 540 N. Marengo Avenue, #3 in Pasadena,
California (the “Property”) for six years and has been in open, exclusive,
hostile, adverse, and actual possession. (Compl., ¶ 1.) On March 6, 2023,
Mackey named The Legacy Trust and Deutsche Bank National Trust Co., Trustee of
WAMY Trust as Does 1 and 2.
On December 20, 2023, the Court issued
an order sustaining Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend (the “December
20 Order”). 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for reconsideration of the December 20 Order. 
On March 5, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief. 
On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(a)
states: 
When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order.  The
party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. 
 
A
court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that
is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or law.” (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.) Motions for
reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where a party offers the Court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Id.)   
III.       
DISCUSSION
In the December 20 Order, the Court
addressed and denied Plaintiff’s request to amend the complaint to add a claim
for elder abuse. In this motion, Plaintiff requests the Court reconsider the
December 20 Order and issue a new order which removes this discussion. Plaintiff
requests this modification because “it may prejudice further actions needed in
regard to the [Property].” (Motion, p. 7.) In her reply brief, Plaintiff
appears to seek an opportunity to amend her complaint to assert a claim for
elder abuse (although whom these claims are directed is unclear because
Plaintiff refers to multiple entities including Wedgewood, Mark Bosco, National
Default Servicing Corporation, and “Tiffany & Bosco”, but not Defendant). Notably,
as Defendant points out in its opposition brief, Plaintiff offers no new facts,
circumstances, or law in support of her motion that were not available to her
at the time the demurrer was heard. Therefore, reconsideration is improper. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
Dated
this 18th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 