 Case Number:  23STCV13790    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV13790




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants FedEx Ground Package System,
  Inc. and Danny Alberto 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants FedEx Ground Package System, Inc. and Danny Alberto (“Defendants”)
now move for leave to file a cross complaint against Jarame Smith. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross complaint setting forth “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case stems from an alleged
motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff Jamaar Simon (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
Defendants collided into his vehicle. 
 
The proposed cross-complaint
asserts the following causes of action against Jarame Smith: equitable
indemnity, equitable contribution, and declaratory relief. (Lezon Decl. ¶ 2, Exh.
A.) Defendants contend that Jarame Smith hit their vehicle first, which then
caused it to collide into Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Id. ¶ 11.)
 
Therefore, since the
cross-complaint arises out of the same occurrence in this action, the Court
finds that granting leave to file the cross-complaint would be in the interest
of justice. Therefore, the motion for leave is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint. Defendants are ordered
to file and serve their proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days of the
date of this Order. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 