 Case Number:  22STCV26535    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV26535




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant Tyrell Edward Pate to Attend Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Claudia Yareli Carrasco 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Tyrell Edward
  Pate



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             Plaintiff Claudia Yareli Carrasco
(“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Tyrell Edward Pate (“Pate”) to attend a
deposition. Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Tyrell Edward Pate (“Defendants”) oppose and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Pamela Rodriguez, Plaintiff’s counsel, states that
following Pate’s non-appearance at the May 29, 2024 deposition, she continued
meet-and-confer attempts regarding Pate’s non-appearance by sending an
electronic message proposing solutions for addressing his disappearance. This
message went unanswered. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 11.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was injured after Pate, who was driving for
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“MTA”), collided
into her car through a red light. On October 3, 2022, Defendants’ counsel filed
an answer on Pate’s behalf. 
 
On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendants with a second amended deposition
notice for Pate, set for May 29, 2024. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Defendants
served an objection on May 22, 2024. Pate failed to appear for the deposition.
Afterward, Defendants informed Plaintiff they had lost contact with Pate.
Plaintiff asserts she has tried to meet and confer to propose solutions for
Pate’s disappearance, but Defendants have been unresponsive. 
 
In opposition, Defendants contend that Pate is no longer employed with
MTA, and they have sent communications to Pate to cooperate. Defendants also
appear to argue the deposition is unnecessary, since they have admitted
vicarious liability for Pate’s conduct. 
 
While Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not “need” Pate’s
testimony, the Court notes that Pate is alleged to be a percipient witness to
the accident, and therefore, his testimony appears relevant.[1]
 
However, Plaintiff has not provided a copy of Defendant’s objection
that was served on May 22, 2024, and therefore cannot determine if the
objection had merit. Since it appears that the objection was timely served, the
motion to compel is denied. 
 
Nevertheless, the parties are strongly encouraged to meaningfully meet
and confer to find a solution for Pate’s non-participation in this case. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


