 Case Number:  22STCV22180    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  1, 2024 




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22180




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Compelling Plaintiff Submit to a Physical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Jardiel Ochoa and Melissa Rosann
  Diazochoa




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Jardiel Ochoa and
Melissa Rosann Diazochoa (“Defendants”) move to compel compliance with a demand
for physical examination served on Plaintiff Shontia Johnson (“Plaintiff”).
Defendants also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿
“The plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical examination .
. . is directed shall respond to the demand by a written statement that the
examinee will comply with the demand as stated, will comply with the demand as
specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will refuse, for reasons specified
in the response, to submit to the demanded physical examination.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.230(a).) 
“Within 20 days after service of the demand the plaintiff
to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it
on the defendant making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other
parties who have appeared in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.230(b).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to timely respond to a demand,
the defendant may move for an order compelling a response to the demand and
compelling compliance with the request for an exam. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.240(b).) 
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.240(c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff claims
injuries including severe middle and lower back pain, acquired neck deformity,
myalgia, fractures of teeth, facial pain, sprain of ligaments of cervical
spine, thoracic spinal enthesopathy, lumbar spine enthesopathy, cervical disc
displacement, contusion of face, muscle spasm and headaches. (Bandhold Decl. ¶
3.) 
 
On May 29, 2024, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s examination with Dr.
Deven Khosla, whose specialty is neurosurgery, for July 15, 2024. (Bandhold
Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. D.) Plaintiff confirmed the examination but failed to appear on
the date due to a family emergency. On July 18, 2024, Defendants offered new
dates, but Plaintiff did not respond. 
 
Defendants seek to compel an examination with Deven Khosla, M.D. on
October 15, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. 
 
Therefore, because Plaintiff did not appear for the examination, the
motion to compel compliance is granted. 
 
Defendants seek $1,425.68 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel. This represents an hourly rate of $160.17, the no-show $500
fee, and the $60 filing fee for this motion. In light of the nature of the
motion and because it is unopposed, the Court awards monetary sanctions in the
reduced amount of $800.25 (1.5 hour of attorney time, the $500 fee, and filing
fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Jardiel Ochoa and Melissa Rosann Diazochoa’s motion for Order Compelling
Plaintiff Submit to a Physical Examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff Shontia
Johnson shall appear for a physical examination with Dr. Khosla on October 15,
2024 at 10:00 a.m., unless Defendants stipulate otherwise. 
 
Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay $800.25 in monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendants within
30 days. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 