  Case Number:  19STCV29995    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV29995




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Intervene 




MOVING PARTY:


Everest National Insurance Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Matthew Cawley  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a consolidated action regarding a September 2, 2017 motor
vehicle accident. On August 22, 2019, Matthew Cawley (“Cawley”) filed a
complaint against Jonathan Alexander Almache and Viviana Almache, alleging that
they collided their vehicle into Cawley’s vehicle. Plaintiff Harry Pham also
filed a complaint against the Almache defendants.
 
On December 23, 2020, Plaintiffs Joselyn Pham, Steven Uy, and Jeffrey
Zhu (“Plaintiffs”) filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Lyft, Inc.
(“Lyft”), Cawley, Jonathan A. Almache, and Viviana Almache, alleging they were
passengers in a Lyft vehicle that was being driven by Cawley within the scope
of his employment with Lyft. (FAC ¶ 1, 11.)
 
Then, on April 4, 2022, Everest National Insurance Company, which
insured the Almache defendants, filed a complaint in interpleader and deposited
its $30,000 bodily injury policy limit with the Court. 
 
Everest National Insurance Company (“Everest”) now moves to intervene
in this case on behalf of its insured Jonathan Alexander Almache. Defendant
Matthew Cawley (“Cawley”) opposes. Plaintiffs Joselyn Pham, Steven Uy, Jeffrey
Zhu, and Defendant Lyft, Inc. have filed notices of non-opposition. Everest
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 387(d) provides, “[t]he court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: . . . (B) The
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect
that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1)(B).) Also,
“[t]he court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in
the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in
litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against
both.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(2).) 
 
“Pursuant to section 387 the trial court has discretion to permit a
nonparty to intervene where the following factors are met: (1) the proper
procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate
interest in the action; (3) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the
litigation; and (4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any opposition by
the parties presently in the action.” (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) 
 
“Timeliness
is determined by the totality of the circumstances facing would-be intervenors,
with a focus on three primary factors: (1) the stage of the proceeding at which
an applicant seeks to intervene; (2) the prejudice to other parties; and (3)
the reason for the delay.  [D]elay in
itself does not make a request for intervention untimely. When mandatory
intervention is sought, because the would-be intervenor may be seriously harmed
if intervention is denied, courts should be reluctant to dismiss such a request
for intervention as untimely, even though they might deny the request if the
intervention were merely permissive.” (Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v.
Lacy (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 560, 574 [internal quotes and citations
omitted].) 
 
“Although
the totality of the circumstances should be considered, prejudice to existing
parties is the most important consideration in deciding whether a motion for
intervention is timely. This does not, however, include prejudice that would
result from allowing intervention. Rather, only the prejudice caused by the
movant's delay should be considered. Indeed, California courts have found
intervention to be timely based solely on the absence of such prejudice.” (Crestwood
Behavioral Health, Inc., supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at 574.) 
 
An insurance company may intervene in an action against its insured when
the insured is not defending the action, in order to avoid harm to the insurer.
(Western Heritage Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 1196, 1205.) This right to intervene arises from Insurance Code
section 11580(b)(2), which allows a judgment creditor for a personal injury
action to recover the judgment against the insurer, pursuant to its policy
limits. (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 383, 386; Ins. Code, § 11580(b)(2).) 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court grants Everest’s request for judicial notice.
 
DISCUSSION
Everest asserts that Jonathan Alexander Almache
(“Almache”) has failed to verify discovery in this matter and is no longer
participating in the defense. Everest anticipates that this conduct could
result in discovery sanctions or an order deeming the facts in Request for
Admissions admitted. This could prejudice Everest since Everest is Almache’s
insurer. Therefore, Everest appears to have a direct and immediate interest in
this action. 
In opposition, Cawley argues this motion is not
timely since Everest arguable first learned of Almache’s non-compliance when he
failed to appear to his deposition on November 28, 2023. Next, Cawley argues
Everest’s interests are adequately represented because it and Viviana Almache
are cooperating in this case and have already participated in discovery. 
            Additionally, Cawley argues
allowing the intervention would pose a conflict of interest but does not
articulate a specific conflict that is present. As for the timeliness of the
request, Cawley identifies no prejudice to the parties to allow the
intervention. Additionally, in reply, Everest’s counsel declares that Almache’s
deposition was scheduled in early 2024, but was later cancelled by Lyft.
(Meyer-Morris Decl. ¶ 7.) Counsel had a pre-deposition meeting with Almache in
2024, showing that his non-participation was not known since November 2023 as
Cawley contends. 
Based on the above and seeing that intervention
will not enlarge the issues in this case, and the parties would not be
prejudiced, the Court grants the request. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Accordingly, the Court grants Everest
National Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene.
 
            Everest National Insurance Company shall
file and serve its proposed answer-in-intervention within 10 days.[1]
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a
proof of service of such.


