 Case Number:  22STCV25942    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25942




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Response to Supplemental Requests for Production 
(2)
  Compel Answers to Supplemental Interrogatories
(3)
  Compel Response to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Kate McCaslin  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Kate McCaslin (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Tara Rogachefsky’s (Plaintiff) responses to Supplemental
Request for Production of Documents, Set One and Supplemental Interrogatories,
Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set Two. Defendant seeks
monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Demand
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts
shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection unless the
party acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (c).) Further,
“[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party
who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion
was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)¿ 
 
Supplemental
Demand for Production
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.050 provides:
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling twice before the initial setting of a trial date,
and, subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided
in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting
of a trial date.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.050(b).)
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Supplemental
Interrogatories
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.070 provides:
 
            “(b) A party may propound a
supplemental interrogatory twice before the initial setting of a trial date,
and, subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided
in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting
of a trial date.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.070(b).)
             
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on October 13, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff
with Demand for Production, Set Two. (Opfell Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Since then, no
responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
On March 27, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with Supplemental Demand
for Production of Documents, Set One and Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One.
(Opfell Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Since then, no responses have been served. (Id.
¶ 5.) 
 
Since no responses have been served, the motions to compel are
granted. 
 
Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $535
for each motion, based on a $175 hourly rate plus the $60 filing fee. The Court
finds sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is excessive given the
type of motions, lack of opposition, and the fact counsel can appear remotely
at the hearing. Accordingly, the Court awards monetary sanctions in the amount
of $967.50 (1.5 hours attorney time, plus the $60 filing fee, for each of the
three motions). 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel
Supplemental Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, Supplemental
Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production of Documents, Set Two.
Plaintiff Tara Rogachefsky shall serve verified responses, without objection,
within 20 days.
 
            Additionally, the Court further grants Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $967.50. Plaintiff shall pay said
monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and
file a proof of service of such.