 Case Number:  21STCV13645    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV13645




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Eshagh Neman, Simin  Neman, and Dorin
  Realty Company, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Eshagh Neman, Simin Neman, and Dorin Realty Company, Inc. (“Defendants”)
move to continue trial and all related dates. No opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on April 9,
2021. Trial was initially set for October 7, 2022. 
 
            Defendants Eshagh Neman and Simin
Neman’s answer was filed on June 4, 2021. 
 
            On February 10, 2022, Defendant
Dorin Realty Company, Inc. was substituted as Doe 1. 
 
            On July 20, 2022, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to September 12,
2023. 
 
            On September 7, 2022, Dorin Realty
Company, Inc. filed its answer. 
 
            On July 3, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’
ex parte application and continued trial and related dates to September 10,
2024. 
 
            On August 5, 2024, the Court denied
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. Pursuant to oral stipulation, trial
and all related dates were continued to October 8, 2024. (Min. Order, 8/5/24.) 
 
            On September 23, 2024, at the final
status conference, the Court noted the multiple motions scheduled to be heard
after the trial date. Over the objection of Plaintiff, trial was continued to
November 4, 2024.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants request the Court continue trial to February 3, 2025. On
September 24, 2024, Defendants filed a “Supplemental Brief”, requesting a
continuance to March 3, 2025. 
 
In the original motion, Defendants request a continuance to hear its
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against a fire sprinkler company
that they first discovered on July 11, 2024. Defendants contend this fire
sprinkler company is primarily liable for the damages in this case. Defendants
have also filed a motion for a protective order to prevent Eshagh Neman’s
deposition until he can be cleared by his physician; Neman is set to be
re-evaluated in early October 2024. Both of these motions are set for October
8, 2024. 
 
At the time this motion to continue was filed, trial was set for
October 8, 2024. However, since then, trial has been continued to November 4,
2024 to accommodate these motions. Therefore, Defendants set forth no good
cause to justify a continuance to February 2025, especially since the Court has
not reached the merits of the October 8, 2024 motions. 
 
Ostensibly for this reason, Defendants filed their “Supplemental
Brief” for a continuance on September 24, 2024. The supplemental brief does not
address the propriety of setting forth additional facts to support the motion,
especially since it was filed five court days before this hearing. Nevertheless,
there are three motions to be relieved as counsel, filed by Defendants’
counsel, set to be heard on October 18, 2024. Defendants’ counsel contends a
conflict of interest has arisen with Defendants. Defendants argue the
continuance to March 3, 2025 is to allow Defendants to obtain new counsel and
prepare for trial. However, given that the motions to be relieved will be heard
before trial, the Court again finds insufficient good cause for a continuance
before it rules on the merits of the motions. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion to continue trial and all related dates.[1]
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to continue trial and all related
dates.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 


