 Case Number:  23STCP01753    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  26   
O’Malley v. Diaz, et al.PETITION
TO RELEASE MECHANIC’S LIEN
(Civil
Code § 8480)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Matthew O’Malley’s
Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER MAY
MOVE FOR COSTS BY FILING A MEMORANDUM OF COSTS AND FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES PURSUANT
TO A NOTICED MOTION. (CAL. RULES OF COURT, RULES 3.1700 AND 3.1702.)
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner
Matthew O’Malley (“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for Release of
Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Jose Diaz (“Respondent”) on May 22, 2023. No
response to the Petition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. The Petition is brought pursuant
to Civil Code section 8480, which provides that the owner of the property may
petition the court for an order to release the property from the claim of lien
if the claimant has not commenced an action to enforce the lien within the time
provided in section 8460. (Civil Code, § 8480, subd. (a).)  
 
Section 8460 provides that “[t]he claimant shall commence an
action to enforce a lien within 90 days after recordation of the claim of
lien.” (Civil Code, § 8460, subd. (a).) Section 8460 further provides that “[i]f
the claimant does not commence an action to enforce the lien within that time,
the claim of lien expires and is unenforceable.” (Civil Code, § 8460, subd.
(a).) Section 8460 also provides that the 90-day time limit to commence an
action to enforce a lien does not apply if there was an agreement to extend
credit and a notice of that fact was recorded within 90 days after recordation
of the claim of lien or more than 90 days after recordation of the claim of
lien but before a purchaser or encumbrancer for value and in good faith
acquires rights in the property.  (Civil
Code, § 8460, subd. (b).)  
 
A property owner may not petition for a release order until
he or she gives the claimant notice demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of lien claim at least ten days before filing the petition.
(Civil Code, § 8482.) Civil Code section 8484 requires that the petition for
release order be verified by the petitioner and allege the following:
 
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to
enforce the lien.
 
(Civil Code, § 8484.)
 
Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b) requires service to
“be made in the same manner as service of summons, or by certified or
registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested . . . .” (Civ. Code,
§ 8486, subd. (b).) Petitioner filed proof of service of the Petition and the
Notice of the Hearing Date by certified mail with return receipt requested.
(Proof of Service by Mail, filed 06/30/23.) This conforms to the statutory
requirements for service. 
 
Regarding the merits, Petitioners have satisfied the
requirements of Civil Code section 8484. (Pet., ¶¶1-13 and Exhs. A-B.)
Furthermore, there is no indication that an action to enforce the lien has been
commenced and the 90-day time period to commence an action has now expired. (Ibid.)

 
Petitioner also requests attorney’s fees and costs pursuant
to Civil Code section 8488, subdivision (c). (Pet., Prayer, ¶2.) However, there
is no request for a specific amount of attorney’s fees or costs, nor evidence
regarding the same, Petitioners may separately file a memorandum of costs
pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, and a noticed motion for
attorney’s fees pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702.
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner Matthew O’Malley’s
Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER MAY
MOVE FOR COSTS BY FILING A MEMORANDUM OF COSTS AND FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES PURSUANT
TO A NOTICED MOTION. (CAL. RULES OF COURT, RULES 3.1700 AND 3.1702.)
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 