 Case Number:  23BBCV00259    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00259

 



MP:  


California Automobile Insurance
  Company (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Karim Araujo (Defendant) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
California Automobile
Insurance Company (Plaintiff) brings this action against Karim Araujo
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, an unlicensed electrician, was
hired by Plaintiff’s Insured to install a new bathroom fan in the Insured’s
apartment. Defendant allegedly cut into the emergency sprinkler lines, causing
significant flooding and damage to the Insured’s apartment. Plaintiff seeks to
be reimbursed for insurance payments made to rectify Defendant’s alleged
negligence.  
 
On October 4, 2024,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to deem matters in their Request for
Admissions (RFA) admitted. Defendant, in pro per, did not oppose this
motion. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion by Plaintiff for judgment on the pleadings. Defendant has rendered no
opposition to this motion. The Court notes that,
pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed
consent to its being granted.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
When the moving party is
the plaintiff, there is only one ground for a motion for judgment on the
pleadings: "the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or
causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a defense to the complaint." (C.C.P. 438(c)(1)(A).) The
grounds for the motion shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or
from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice (C.C.P.
§ 438(d).)
 
"[A]ny matter admitted
in response to a request for admission is conclusively established against the
party making the admission in the pending action, unless the court has
permitted withdrawal or amendment of that admission." (Wilcox v.
Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 978 979 [italics omitted].)"[A]dmissions
or concessions of matters which cannot be reasonably be controverted are
properly considered on a motion for judgment on the pleadings." (Evans
v. California Trailer Court, Inc. (1994) 28 Cal. App. 4th 540, 549
[citation omitted].) “The court will take judicial notice of records such as
admissions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, and the like, when
considering a demurrer, only where they contain statements of the plaintiff or
his agent which are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before
the court.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal. App. 3d 604-05) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice 
 
Plaintiff
requests the Court take judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.     
Defendant’s
Answer to the Complaint (attached as Exh. 1.) 
 
2.     
Motion to Deem
Admissions (Attached as Exh. 2.) 
 
3.     
The Court’s order
granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem RFA Matters Admitted (attached as Exh. 3.)
 
Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED. Defendant’s Answer and Plaintiff’s motion are
all records of the Court within the meaning of Evidence Code § 452, and thus
subject to judicial notice.
 
Discussion

 
Plaintiff
moves for judgment to be entered on grounds that the above judicially noticed
documents establish Plaintiff is entitled to the relief sought in the
Complaint. For reasons stated below, the Court agrees. 
 
Plaintiff’s
sole cause of action is for Subrogation. To state a cause of action for Subrogation,
an insurer must allege that (1) payment was made by the subrogee to protect his
own interest, (2) the subrogee did not act as a volunteer, (3) the debt is not
one for which the subrogee was primarily liable, (4) the entire debt was paid,
and (5) subrogation does not work any injustice to the rights of others. (American
Contractors Indemnity Co. v. Saladino (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1262,
1268 [quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
 
Here, the Court finds the matters deemed admitted conclusively
establish that Plaintiff is entitled to relief on its cause of action for
Subrogation. By virtue of Defendant’s failure to respond, the following items
were deemed admitted: 
 
·        
Defendant was hired to install a bathroom fan at
the Subject Property. (RFA No. 3.) 
·        
Defendant cut into the emergency fire sprinkler
system. (RAF No. 2.)
·        
Defendant caused the flooding at the Subject
Property (RFA No. 1.) 
·        
Defendant caused Insured to incur damages of at
least $ 107,866.17. (RFA No. 6.)
·        
Plaintiff as the insurer, has been damaged in the
amount of at least $ 107,866.17. (RFA No. 7.)
 
Absent the filing of a
motion to withdraw admissions pursuant to C.C.P. § 2033.300(a), Defendant’s
admissions here cannot reasonably be controverted. Defendant’s admissions stand
at odds with the general denial as stated in his Answer. Given these
admissions, the Court sees no way in which Plaintiffs could amend their
pleading to cure this defect. Accordingly, the motion for judgment on the
pleadings is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
California Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings came on regularly for hearing on January 10, 2025, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS
GRANTED. 
 
FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE AND TRIAL DATES ARE
ADVANCED AND VACATED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 10, 2025                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 