  Case Number:  22BBCV00674    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  A MOTION TO
SET ASIDE/VACATE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00674

 



MP:  


Gary Carrington
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Lendora Capital, LLC (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
November 14, 2022, the Court entered Default Judgment in favor of Lendora
Capital, LLC (Plaintiff) as against Carrington Transport, LLC and Gary
Carrington (Defendant). The amount of the judgment was $103,144.03. 
 
On
January 5, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to Vacate the Default Judgment
pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b). On February 29, 2024, Defendant filed a substitution
of attorney, reflecting that he no longer represented himself in pro per.
On March 12, 2024, a Notice of Bankruptcy Stay was filed in this case. On April
4, 2024 the Court ordered all scheduled hearings vacated. (See April 2, 2024
Minute Order.) 
 
On August
28, 2024, Defendant refiled the instant motion without explanation. To the
Court’s knowledge the Bankruptcy stay was still in effect at the time Defendant
filed the motion and reserved the November 8, 2024 hearing date. The Court also
notes that the August 28 filing represents that the motion is filed in pro per
by Defendant, despite the fact that his counsel substituted into the matter six
months prior.  
 
On
October 17, 2024, the Court held a OSC re: Bankruptcy at which both parties
appeared. Having reviewed the order of the United State Bankruptcy Court, the
Court ordered the bankruptcy stay lifted and ordered the instant motion could
proceed. Defendant then made an oral motion to vacate the default judgment,
which was denied. Defendant’s oral motion to continue the newly reserved November
8, 2024 date for the hearing on the Motion to Vacate was also denied. 
 
On
November 17, 2024, in accordance with its ordinary practice, the Court
published its Tentative Ruling on Defendant’s motion. Also on November 7, 2024,
counsel for Defendant called and rescheduled the motion to be heard January 10,
2024. Later that same day, Defendant filed a Notice Re: Continuance of Rescheduled
Hearing Date. 
 
On
December 6, 2024, Defendant filed a separate Motion to Vacate. While labeled a
“supplemental” motion, this motion in fact asserts grounds for relief which
were never mentioned in the initial moving papers. In addition to asserting
relief under C.C.P. § 473(b), Defendant now also asserts the judgment should be
vacated because Plaintiff is not authorized to do business in the State of
California and thus cannot maintain an action against Defendant. Plaintiff
objects to the supplemental motion as improper under C.C.P. § 464(a).
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. (Jackson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Inc. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 166, 173.)  The discretionary
provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as
follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of C.C.P. § 473(b) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of C.C.P. § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault
attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party
or its attorney. (C.C.P. § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Supplemental
Motion 
 
The Court briefly notes
that the authority cited by Plaintiff, C.C.P. § 464(a), does not appear
applicable to this motion. C.C.P. § 464(a) prohibits the filing of supplemental
pleadings and makes no mention of motion practice.  Nevertheless, the Court is uncertain why
Defendant believed they were entitled to file a supplemental motion. While supplemental
“briefing” is a common practice among trial courts, the Court is unable to
locate any case or statute which discusses supplemental “motions.” To the
extent that Defendant’s filing is mislabeled, and he intended it to be a
supplemental briefing, the Court finds doing so without leave of the Court to
be problematic. 
 
The practice of allowing
supplemental briefs derives from the longstanding practice of the Court of
Appeal. Supplemental briefing is allowed at the appellate level where the court
intends to render a decision “based upon an issue which was not proposed or
briefed by any party to the proceeding…” (Gov. Code § 68081.) In such situations
the Court is required to, “…afford the parties an opportunity to present their
views on the matter through supplemental briefing.” (Id.) In turn, CRC
Rule 8.200(a)(4) requires a party wishing to submit supplemental briefing to
first seek leave of the presiding justice. 
 
To the Court’s knowledge,
the California Superior Court has no rules analogous to Gov. Code § 68081 or
CRC Rule 8.200(a)(4). Regardless, the Court finds these rules stand for the
general principle that a party seeking to file supplemental briefing on a
motion must seek leave of the court before doing so. In the context of this
Court, this typically takes the form of the Court requesting supplemental
briefing on legal issues or authorities which were cited for the first time
upon oral argument. 
 
Even if Defendant was not
required to obtain leave to file supplemental briefing, his doing so would be a
clear violation of C.C.P. § 1005(b) which requires all supporting papers to be
served and filed at least 16 days before the hearing. Here, Defendant was
required to include all supporting papers 16 days prior to the November 8, 2024
hearing date. 
 
The law cannot be such that
a moving party is permitted to voluntarily continue their own motion and then
file further supporting papers based on the continued hearing date. If such
were the case, no motion would ever come on for hearing. Any party suffering an
adverse ruling in a posted tentative would simply continue the motion and file
supplemental briefing seeking to shore up their initial filings. The Rules of
Court do not permit such tactics. 
 
In short, Defendant has not
demonstrated an entitlement to supplemental briefing. Further, Defendant
provides no authority to support his filing of a “supplemental motion”. To consider
Defendant’s newly raised arguments in adjudicating this motion would constitute
a tacit endorsement to flout the rules of civil procedure. As such, the Court
declines to consider Defendant’s supplemental motion in making this ruling.
 
Discussion

 
Defendant’s request for
relief pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b) is untimely. Motions brought pursuant to
this section must be brought within six months of the entry of judgment. Here,
judgment was entered on November
14, 2022.
Plaintiff did not file his first Motion to Vacate until January 5, 2024. The
bankruptcy stay has no bearing on Defendant’s untimeliness because this motion
was already untimely filed when the stay went into place. Defendant therefore
cannot seek relief under either provision of C.C.P. § 473(b). 
 
Further, Defendant’s
filings do not include a proposed responsive pleading as required by C.C.P.§
473(b). Failure to include this proposed pleading also necessitates denial of a
motion for relief pursuant to this statute. Other statutes outlining relief
from default also require a proposed responsive pleading. (See C.C.P. § 473.5
[“the party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion,
or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.]; see also Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 982 [holding
that relief from default under extrinsic fraud must be accompanied by a showing
of a meritorious case].) 
 
Even if the Court were to consider
Defendant’s supplemental motion as supplemental briefing, it would still be
defective for failure to attach a proposed responsive pleading. Despite the
fact that the Court clearly stated this issue in its November 8th Tentative
Ruling, the supplemental motion fails to include a proposed pleading. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Vacate Default
Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. Although the Court does not approve of
Defendant’s approach to briefing the instant motion, it maintains that Defendant
may be able to show he is entitled to relief outside the context of C.C.P. §
473(b). The Court emphasizes that any further motion to vacate the default
judgment should be accompanied by a prospective pleading and a thorough
statement of the grounds by which relief is sought.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gary
Carrington’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate came on regularly for hearing on January 10, 2025, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO
VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
10, 2025                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 