 Case Number:  24BBCV00292    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00292

 



MP:  


Jessica
  & Sergio Gallegos (Defendants) 




RP:  


Robert Chavez (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Robert Chavez
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Jessica & Sergio Gallegos
(Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ negligent operation of a motor
vehicle caused them to collide with Plaintiff, resulting in serious injury. 
 
Before the Court are three motions to compel Plaintiff’s
response to Defendants’ (1) Form Interrogatories, (2) Special Interrogatories,
and (3) Request for Production of Documents (RFPD). Defendant has rendered no
opposition to these motions. The Court notes that pursuant to C.R.C. Rule
8.54(c), failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On
September 4, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff with their Form/Special
Interrogatories and RFPD. (Hanna Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) On October 15, 2024,
Defendants’ counsel reached out to Plaintiff as they had received no response.
(Hanna Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) On October 17, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel replied
that discovery responses were forthcoming. (Hanna Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.)
Defendants state that they remain without discovery responses as of the filing
of this motion. (Hanna Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendants’ unopposed motions to compel initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court has
discretion to impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct. (C.C.P. §
2023.030(a).) Sanctions are only mandatory as against a party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories or RFPD, unless the Court finds they acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c) & 2031.300(c).) Regardless, it is customary to grant sanctions
where a party has filed a motion to compel, and the other party fails to file
an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Defendants have brought three motions to compel, and Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition. As such, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $690 as
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally. This amount
reflects three hours of attorney work at the stated rate of $170 per hour, plus
the $60 filing fee per motion. (Hanna Decl. ¶ 7.) 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jessica & Sergio Gallegos’ Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery came on regularly for hearing on January 10, 2025, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES ARE GRANTED.
 
RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN THE NEXT 30 CALENDAR DAYS.

 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $690
AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY.  SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: January
10, 2025                             _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 