  Case Number:  23STCV11535    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Daniel Meza,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV11535




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 24, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Compliance with Court
Order
Moving Party: Plaintiff Daniel Meza 
Responding Party: Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
THE REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
This is a lemon law action arising out
of the purchase of a 2022 Honda Accord manufactured and distributed by
Defendant Honda. Plaintiff brings this action for violations of the
Song-Beverly Act and fraudulent concealment. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff moves to compel compliance
with the Court’s August 2, 2024 order compelling the deposition of Defendant’s
person most knowledgeable. Plaintiff represents that the deposition went
forward on August 8, 2024, but the PMK, Jennifer Pacheco, was not qualified to
testify on several categories, including: (1) reports,
surveys, summaries identifying a defect with the Honda Sensing System; (2)
advertisements, marketing, and communications regarding the Honda Sensing
System; (3) corrective action to address defects with Honda Sensing System; and
(4) estimated costs to remove the Honda Sensing System from the US market. Plaintiff also represents that Pacheco
produced no documents at the deposition. 
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff
failed to question Pacheco properly by focusing on Pacheco’s personal knowledge
instead of asking questions relating to general corporate knowledge of the
categories at issue. Defendant also asserts that any gaps in Pacheco’s
knowledge can be filled with the deposition transcripts of Scott Hunter and Chris Martin, who were deposed as PMKs in another case
involving Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm, which Defendant has since provided. 
 
The Court finds that Defendant has complied with the Court’s August 2,
2024 order. Defendant provided a person most knowledgeable regarding corporate
knowledge on the categories listed. That Pacheco was not personally involved in,
for example, the creation of advertisements does not mean she is not qualified
to testify as a PMK. Additionally, Defendant has provided deposition
transcripts of other witnesses to supplement Pacheco’s deposition. Plaintiff
does not identify any specific documents needed that were not produced. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. The Court declines to award sanctions to
either party.


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Daniel Meza,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV11535




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 24, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. 
Responding Party: Plaintiff Daniel Meza
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, reply, and supplemental opposition.
 
BACKGROUND
                
This is a lemon law action arising out
of the purchase of a 2022 Honda Accord manufactured and distributed by
Defendant Honda. Plaintiff brings this action for violations of the
Song-Beverly Act and fraudulent concealment. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraudulent concealment. “The
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Linear Technology Corp. v.
Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 131.)
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has no
evidence showing Defendant had previous knowledge of the defect, misrepresented
the defect, or had a duty to disclose the defect. Defendant also asserts that
the claim is barred by the economic loss rule. 
 
Defendant cites no evidence to support
its separate statement of material facts, instead pointing only to the
allegations in the complaint. In its November 3, 2023 ruling on Defendant’s
demurrer, the Court held that Plaintiff’s allegations were sufficient to state
a claim for fraudulent concealment. The Court also found that the claim was not
barred as a matter of law by the economic loss rule, under Dhital v. Nissan
North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828. 
 
To succeed on a motion for summary
adjudication, Defendant must present evidence negating one or more
elements of the subject cause of action. (See CCP § 437c(b)(1) [“The motion
shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may
be taken.”]) If Defendant seeks to show that Plaintiff has no evidence to
support his claim, Defendant must either present evidence showing that the
allegations in the complaint are untrue or evidence showing Plaintiff does not
possess evidence. The latter may be done, for example, by presenting a plaintiff’s
factually devoid discovery responses. (See Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 102-103; Union Bank v. Sup.Ct. (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 573.) Defendant has not provided any such evidence, instead
focusing only on the allegations in the complaint. Challenging the pleadings,
particularly where the Court already has found the pleadings sufficient, does
not shift the evidentiary burden on summary adjudication. 
 
Defendant has failed to meet its burden
to show it is entitled to summary adjudication of the cause of action for
fraudulent concealment. Defendant’s motion is DENIED.
 