 Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Farmers Defendants’
Motion for Protective Order Regarding Plaintiff’s Document Requests
            Defendants Farmers Group, Inc.;
Farmers Insurance Exchange; Fire Insurance Exchange; Truck Insurance Exchange;
Mid-Century Insurance Company; and Farmers New World Life Insurance
(collectively, “Farmers”) move for a protective order relieving them from
responding to plaintiff Maureen Martinez’s requests for production of documents
and document requests include in deposition notices.
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2017.020(a)
provides, “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that
the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.”  Section 2019.030(a) provides,
“The court shall restrict the frequency or extent of use of” discovery “if it
determines either of the following: (1) The discovery sought is unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive. 
(2) The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive,
taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  
For requests for production, section
2031.060(b) provides, “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.”  A protective order may direct that “all or
some of the items or categories of items in the demand need not be produced or
made available at all.”  (Id.,
subd. (b)(1).)
Farmers
shows good cause for the protective order they seek.  Plaintiff has propounded seven sets of
requests for production totaling 667 categories of documents to defendant
Farmers Group, Inc.  (Magnanimo Decl., Exs.
A, B, C, D, E, F, H.)  Plaintiff has
propounded hundreds of other requests to other defendants and in notices of
depositions.  Farmers’ counsel estimates
responding to all requests would require 1,000 hours of work.  (Id., ¶ 21.)  
This
vast amount of discovery is unduly burdensome and expensive.  Plaintiff requests numerous categories of
documents that, if discoverable at all, concern collateral issues.  For example, plaintiff requests “all Corporate
Bank Statements for” Farmers Group Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Farmers New World Life Insurance Company, and Mid-Century
Insurance Company from 2016 to 2020. 
(RFP Nos. 517-540.)  She further
requests “all emails between [CEO] Jeff Dailey and” four other people (RFP Nos.
499-502), “all annual reviews for Jeff Dailey” and 13 other employees over
several years (RFP Nos. 541-554).  
The
needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake do not justify this much discovery. 
In this action, one plaintiff alleges employment and Labor Code claims
and other related causes of action against Farmers.  The interrelationship of the various Farmers
entities makes this case at most moderately more complex than the typical
employment case.  Plaintiff’s discovery
requests go beyond what is reasonable in this action.
Plaintiff’s
Other Arguments
            Plaintiff argues defendants did not
“promptly move for a protective order” as required.  (CCP § 2031.060(a).)  Defendants initially filed this motion on
June 11, 2024, 35 days after plaintiff served requests for production, set
seven.  In the circumstances, defendants’
motion was prompt enough. 
            Plaintiff also argues defendants did
not adequately meet and confer before filing this motion.  Defendants sent a meet and confer letter in
January 2024 (Maile Reply Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C), and participated in an informal
discovery conference on March 27 (Magnanimo Decl., ¶ 19).  Defendants made a sufficient effort to
informally resolve this dispute.  The
volume of discovery plaintiff propounded made further efforts impractical and
likely futile.      
Sanctions
            Farmers moves for $3,000 in
sanctions against plaintiff and her counsel of record, Maryann P. Gallagher and
Sherri Nazarian.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2019.030(c) provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction …
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
Plaintiff unsuccessfully opposed this motion for a protective
order.  Plaintiff did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.  Farmers
reasonably incurred $3,000 in expenses.
Disposition
            Defendants’ Farmers Group, Inc.;
Farmers Insurance Exchange; Fire Insurance Exchange; Truck Insurance Exchange;
Mid-Century Insurance Company; and Farmers New World Life Insurance’s motion for
protective order is granted.  
The
court hereby orders that the Farmers defendants need not produce any
documents or provide any further responses to the pending requests for
production and the documents requested in deposition notices for Bill Matlock,
Zoltan Nagy, Armine Ambartsumyan, William Wilson, David Reyes, Margaret Giles,
Kirk Parker, and each defendant’s person most qualified on specified matters.  
Plaintiff
may serve amended notices of depositions including no more than 10 document
requests each.  Plaintiff may propound no
more than 100 additional requests for production, aggregated among all six Farmers
defendants.  Plaintiff may only propound
additional requests for production with leave of court.   
Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez and her counsel of record, Maryann P. Gallagher and Sherri
Nazarian, are ordered to pay the Farmers defendants $3,000 in sanctions
within 30 days.  Plaintiff and her two
attorneys of record are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.
 