 Case Number:  23SMCV03788    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  205 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
MARSAH ROSE NEGRIN,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
404 SAN VICENTE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV03788
 
  Hearing Date:  November 30, 2023
  order
  RE:
  Defendant 404 SAN VICENTE 
  HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION’S  
  demurrer to complaint



 
 
BACKGROUND
This
case arises from a dispute between a homeowner and a homeowners’
association.  Defendant 404 San Vicente
Boulevard Homeowners Association (the “HOA”) governs a 28-unit building located
at 504 San Vicente Boulevard in Santa Monica California (the “Property”).  Plaintiff owns Unit 202 of the Property (the
“Unit”).  (Compl. ¶7.)  
The
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (“CC&R’s”) for the
Property obligated the HOA to maintain, repair, restore and make necessary
improvements to the common area so that “they are at all times in a first-class
condition and good state of repair, including without limitation, all exterior
building surfaces.”  (Id. ¶9.) 
Plaintiff has the right to sue the HOA to seek to enforce the
CC&R’s.  (Id.) 

Plaintiff alleges that a water leak
occurred in December 2021, causing damage to the drywall, heating system and
hardwood floors at Plaintiff’s unit.  (Id.
¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges the “HOA
admitted that its own negligent failure to conduct regular and customary
maintenance of the Common Area gutters caused the substantial damage to the
Unit” and the HOA agreed to pay the repairs at its own expense.  (Id. ¶11.)   
Plaintiff goes on to allege that the
HOA did not repair her unit, and after eight months, Plaintiff “had no choice but
to seek to begin repair efforts herself at her own expense.”  (Id. ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges that the HOA engaged in
improper efforts to prevent Plaintiff from repairing her unit.  (Id. ¶16.)  Plaintiff claims that the damage to the Unit
caused her to seek alternative housing while the repairs were being made.  (Id. ¶13.)   
The
operative complaint alleges four claims for (1) damages for breach of the
CC&R’s, (2) negligence, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, and (4) financial
elder abuse.  
As
to the financial elder abuse claim, Plaintiff alleges she is an elder as
defined by the California Welfare and Institutions Code § 15610.27 (Id. ¶32), and
that “Defendants perpetrated ‘financial abuse’ as defined by California Welfare
and Institutions Code § 15610.30 … [by] taking, appropriating, obtaining and/or
retaining personal property in the form [of] funds owing to [Plaintiff] under
CC&R’s as a result of the HOA’s negligence for a wrongful use and/or with
intent to defraud.”  (Id.
¶32)
This
hearing is on the HOA’s demurrer to the financial elder abuse claim.  The HOA argues the claim is fatally uncertain
as to what funds are owed to Plaintiff under the CC&R’s and Plaintiff has
not alleged facts to support that any funds are due and owing to her from
Defendants.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
“[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not
consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not
accepted for the truth of their contents).) 
For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint
are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of
conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
967.)          
A demurrer to a
complaint may be general or special.  A general demurrer challenges the
legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  A special demurrer challenges other
defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)  The term uncertain includes the issue
of whether the pleading is “ambiguous and unintelligible.”  (Id.)  A demurrer for uncertainty
should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed
against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court
shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A
demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint,
liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there
is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before
the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving
party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).) 
Defendant submits the Declaration of Philip C. Zvonicek, which shows the
parties met and conferred by email and by phone.  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements
of Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.
 
DISCUSSION
The elements
of a financial elder abuse claim are: (1) defendant took, hid,
appropriated, obtained or retained plaintiff's property or assisted in same;
(2) plaintiff was 65 years of age or older at the time of the conduct; (3)
defendant did so for a wrongful use or with the intent to defraud or by undue
influence; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.  (CACI 3100; Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd. (a).) 
Here, Plaintiff has not alleged how the HOA took, hid,
appropriated or retained Plaintiff’s property. 
Rather, Plaintiff alleges certain terms of the CC&R’s obligated the
HOA to repair and maintain the common areas of the Property, and because the
HOA failed to do so, Plaintiff must now repair the water damage using her own
funds.  These facts do not support a
claim for financial elder abuse.  There
is no allegation that the HOA took Plaintiff’s monies.        
CONCLUSION
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer with leave to amend.    
DATED: 
November 30, 2023                                            ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court