 Case Number:  23GDCV01994    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: Friday,
February 16, 2024
Case No:         23GDCV01994                                                          Trial
Date:  [None set]
Case Name:     Torosian
v. Madatyan, et al.
 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Moving
Party: Defendants Glendale French Bakery
and Liana Gyozalyan     
Responding
Party: None.
 
Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 317(b)):   ok 
Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)):    ok 
16/+5 day lapse (CCP
§1005):  ok  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
 
Defendants Glendale French Bakery
dba Papillon International Bakery and Liana Gyozalyan demurs to the third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ Robert
Torosian, Marina Fermanyan, Galoust Gregory Torosian, and Hakop Jack Torosian complaint
on the grounds that:
 
(1)  
These specified causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant; and
(2)  
The ninth cause of action is uncertain, ambiguous, and
unintelligible.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiffs
Robert Torosian, Marina Fermanyan, Galoust Gregory Torosian, and Hakop Jack
Torosian filed a Complaint against Defendants Edgar Madatyan, Elvis Madatyan,
Glendale French Bakery, Inc. dba Papillon International Bakery, Liana
Gyozalyan, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive. The Complaint alleged causes of
action for (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Conspiracy to Commit Assault and
Battery; (4) Negligence; (5) Loss of Consortium; (6) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (8)
Vicarious Liability; and (9) Aiding and Abetting (Assault and Battery). 
 
On January 12, 2024, Defendants
Glendale French Bakery dba Papillon International Bakery and Liana Gyozalyan filed
the instant Demurrer with Motion to Strike. The demurrer and motion to strike
are unopposed. 
 
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the same causes of
action. Provided that Plaintiffs filed the operative FAC, Defendants Glendale
French Bakery dba Papillon International Bakery and Liana Gyozalyan’s Demurrer
with Motion to Strike are rendered moot. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants Glendale
French Bakery dba Papillon International Bakery and Liana Gyozalyan’s Demurrer
with Motion to Strike are DENIED as MOOT. 
 
 
 