  Case Number:  20STCV44278    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  T ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF KEVIN JOSEPH BREZNAI’S AMENDED MOTION FOR ADMISSION OF MARK G. SIMONS TO APPEAR AS COUNSEL PRO HAC VICELEGAL STANDARDCalifornia Rule of Court, rule 9.40 provides that¿an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of California. The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves for Counsel Mark G. Simons (“Applicant”) to be admitted to appear as counsel pro hac vice to represent Plaintiff in this action, along with Counsel Anthony L. Hall, an active member of the State Bar of California. (Motion at pg. 1.) Applicant is a resident of Reno, Nevada and practices law in Nevada and several other states. (Motion at pg. 2; Exh. 1, Simons Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4.) Applicant is a member in good standing of several courts and has never been disbarred.  (Id. ¶¶ 4-5.)  In the past two years, Applicant has not sought to be admitted pro hac vice in any other California cases and states that he currently has a pending application before the California State bar to practice before the American Arbitration Association in Case No. 01-23-0001-1985. (Id., ¶ 6.)Additionally, the court finds the requirements under California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e) have been satisfied because Plaintiff has provided proof that notice and the require fee has been given to the State Bar of California. (Motion, Exh. 3; Amended Proof of Service filed on March 20, 2024; Proof of Service filed on May 29, 2024.) Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s amended motion for admission of Mark G. Simons to appear as counsel pro hac vice.  Plaintiff to give notice of this ruling.