 Case Number:  21STCV02371    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  39 Brink
Biologics, Inc. v. Sanofi, S.A., et al.
Case
No. 21STCV02371
Motion
for Leave to Amend
 
Plaintiff Brink Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Sanofi, S.A. (“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and
Sanofi-Aventis Recherche & Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  Conkwest Incorporated
(“Conkwest”), a predecessor entity of Plaintiff, entered into a non-exclusive
licensing agreement with SARD on December 16, 2011.  Plaintiff alleges that this agreement granted
Defendants a license to use NK-92 cells for research and development
purposes.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants were not authorized to modify the cells or use the cells for
commercial purposes, like potency or quality control release assays.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated
both prohibitions, as a result of which Plaintiff terminated the license on
January 19, 2021.  Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff stemming from this termination.  Now, Plaintiff seeks to file a first amended
complaint.  
 
The Court has no tentative order on this motion because the
motion does not provide sufficient information. 
Plaintiff’s counsel has propounded extensive written discovery and
conducted numerous depositions to date.  However,
Plaintiff’s counsel does not provide sufficient detail in support of his argument
that there will be no prejudice to Defendants. 
Plaintiff’s counsel writes: 
 
“The amendments Brink proposes all relate to the facts
that have come from the recent testimony of Defendants’ witnesses and/or from
Defendants’ documents.  This is
information that originates with Defendants, and either was known to them or
should have been known to them.  As no
prejudice will result by allowing this amendment, the Court should grant this
motion.”  
 
(Plaintiff’s
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 9:23-26.)  The Court is unclear what this means, i.e.,
whether Plaintiff’s counsel is stating that no additional discovery will be
required.
 
            Defendants’ counsel clearly interprets
this paragraph to the contrary, arguing: “Brink will undoubtedly seek
additional discovery, and nowhere in its moving papers does Brink represent
that no additional discovery will be needed.” 
(Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 15:7-9.)  In response, Plaintiff’s counsel writes: 
 
“Any additional discovery that Brink may seek would be
narrow and limited only to those topics in which Defendants have engaged in
conflicting and misleading discovery over the course of this litigation.  New discovery request would be focused squarely
on newly uncovered information gathered in the course of deposition testimony,
some of which was gathered as recently as last month.” 
 
 (Plaintiff’s Reply Brief, p. 7:4-8.)  The use of the word “any” suggests that there
may not be additional discovery, though the remainder of the paragraph suggests
that there will be “new discovery requests.” 

 
            This amendment may not result in additional
discovery requests (or only minimal requests). 
For example, the prior requests for production of documents—and the use
of search terms—may have encompassed all relevant documents.  Similarly, it appears that Plaintiff’s counsel
discussed the relevant issues during the depositions of Defendants’ employees, which
is how Plaintiff uncovered the issue. 
Therefore, it may be reasonable to conclude that Plaintiff’s counsel is
correct.  Nevertheless, because the Court
cannot determine exactly how the proposed amendment will affect the discovery
in the case—and the impending trial date—the Court does not have sufficient
information to resolve the motion.  
 
The Court intends to discuss these issues with the parties.  The Court may rule at the hearing; the Court
may take the motion under submission; or the Court may continue the hearing and
afford Plaintiff’s counsel an opportunity to provide a discovery plan outlining
the “narrow and limited” additional discovery at issue.  
 