 Case Number:  20STCV33903    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  39 Maria
Zazueta v. Mi Pueblito San Juan Restaurant, et al.
Case
No. 20STCV33903
Plaintiff’s Motions
in Limine #2 & #3
 
            A.        Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine #2 –
Granted in Part; Denied in Part 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to exclude certain evidence at trial based upon late production, viz., “twelve
new videos” that were produced on September 14, 2023.  (See Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine #2, p. 9:9-10.)  These videos are as follows:
 
            Exhibit
#110 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly stealing tips
            Exhibit
#111 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly kicking food supplies
            Exhibit
#114 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly making demands 
            Exhibit
#121 – Video of Neida Padilla deleting cash register entries 
            Exhibit
#125 – Video of Plaintiff speaking with Defendant
            Exhibit
#127 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly receiving money she asked Defendant to hold

            Exhibit
#128 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly allowing former employee into office 
            Exhibit
#129 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly allowing former employee into office 
            Exhibit
#130 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly at home 
            Exhibit
#132 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly asking to be fired 
            Exhibit
#133 – Video of Plaintiff allegedly cleaning with her boyfriend 
            Exhibit
#135 – Video relating to lost tickets
 
In Defendants’ opposition, they “conceded
the evidence produced after August 18, 2023 shall not be used in the Defendant’s
case-in-chief . . . .”  (Defendants’
Brief in Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine #2, p. 4:1-2.)  Therefore, the Court granted the motion and ordered
that “[s]uch evidence may only be used for impeachment purposes or in any rebuttal
case.”  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated
October 10, 2023.)  The Court orders
the parties to file a joint statement listing the exhibits that are covered by
this order on or before January 24, 2024. 
 
 
            The
Court continued the motion with respect to the issue whether these videos
should be excluded for all purposes based upon alleged violations of Penal Code
section 632.  Section 632(d) states: “Except
as proof in an action or prosecution for violation of this section, evidence
obtained as a result of eavesdropping or recording a confidential communication
in violation of this section is not admissible in any judicia, administrative,
legislative, or other proceeding.”  (Pen.
Code, § 632(d).)  As an initial matter, videos
from the surveillance cameras at the restaurant do not violate section
632.  (See Santa Ana Police Officers
Assn. v. City of Santa Ana (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 317, 325-326.)  Regardless, section 632 (d) does not prohibit
use of illegal recordings to impeach a witness making statements inconsistent
with those conversations.  (See Frio v.
Superior Court (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1480, 1496-1497; People v. Crow (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 440, 452.)  Nor does it
prohibit Defendant’s counsel from using the materials to refresh a witness’s
recollection (provided that the jury does not see or hear the videos).  (See Frio, supra, 203 Cal.App.3d at p.
1496-1497.)  Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion under section 632(d).
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Plaintiff’s counsel’s objections to use
of the videos under Evidence Code section 352: 
   
 
1.         Exhibit #110 – DENIED.  A video of Plaintiff allegedly stealing tips
is admissible for impeachment purposes.  To
the extent the video demonstrates dishonest conduct, it reflects upon Plaintiff’s
credibility as a witness.  However, the Court
will give a limiting instruction at the request of Plaintiff’s counsel.  
 
            2.         Exhibit #111 – GRANTED.  A video of Plaintiff allegedly kicking food
supplies is not admissible.  There is
little, if any, probative value because Defendants’ defense is that Plaintiff
voluntarily left her employment, not that she was terminated for vandalism.  The Court finds that any probative value
would be greatly outweighed by the prejudice under Evidence Code section
352.  Therefore, this evidence is
excluded.
 
            3.         Exhibit #114 – DENIED.  A video of Plaintiff allegedly making demands
is admissible for impeachment purposes assuming Plaintiff denies having done
so.  The issue whether Plaintiff made
demands is part of the defense in this case and therefore the video has
probative value for impeachment purposes. 
The Court finds that any probative value would not be greatly outweighed
by the prejudice  under Evidence Code
section 352/  Therefore, this evidence is
excluded.
 
            4.         Exhibit #121 – GRANTED.  A video of someone else deleting cash register
appears not to relate to any issue in this case and therefore has no probative
value.  Any probative value is greatly
outweighed by the prejudice.  Therefore,
this evidence is excluded.
 
            5.         Exhibit #125 – DENIED for the same
reasons as Exhibit #114.
 
            6.         Exhibit #127 – DENIED for the same
reasons as Exhibit #114.
 
            7.         Exhibit #128 – GRANTED.  There is no probative value in inquiring
whether Plaintiff allowed a former employee into the back office and therefore
no impeachment value in this video.  Defendant maintains that Plaintiff voluntarily
resigned, not that she was terminated for this alleged violation.  Any probative value would be greatly outweighed
by the prejudice under Evidence Code section 352.  Therefore, this evidence is excluded.
 
            8.         Exhibit #129 – GRANTED for the same
reasons as Exhibit #128.
 
            9.         Exhibit #130 – DENIED for the same
reasons as Exhibit #114.
 
            10.       Exhibit #132 – DENIED for the same
reasons as Exhibit #114.
 
            11.       Exhibit
#133 – The Court does not have sufficient information to rule on this issue.
 
            12.       Exhibit
#135 – The Court does not have sufficient information to rule on this issue.  
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that Martin Padilla did not preserve videos following a
preservation letter, and Defendants allege that the video surveillance system only
maintains videos for two weeks.  This is
not a basis to exclude the videos.  There
is insufficient evidence that Defendants intentionally destroyed or failed to
preserve evidence.  Moreover, the nature
of the surveillance videos does not suggest that there would be some other
evidence to rebut them.  However,
Plaintiff’s counsel may inquire of Defendants concerning any failure to preserve
evidence, e.g., whether Martin Padilla was aware of the need to preserve videos
and whether he did so, etc.  Plaintiff’s
counsel may not ask Martin Padilla questions about his conversations with
counsel and efforts to gather/produce discovery, as those topics are privileged
and/or violative of Evidence Code section 352.
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff’s counsel argues that the videos are confusing and/or unintelligible.  This is an issue for the jury, as none of
these issues would justify exclusion under Evidence Code section 352.  Plaintiff’s counsel also argues that certain
videos are undated.  Presumably, Martin
Padilla (or whoever authenticates these videos) will provide a rough date/time
period.  Even if not, presumably,
Plaintiff’s counsel will argue these deficiencies to the jury.  This is an issue for the jury.
 
            B.        Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine #3 – Granted
in Part; Denied in Part 
 
            Plaintiff
moves to preclude Defendant from calling Olga Perez Jiminez, one of Defendant’s
current or former employees, because she failed to appear at her deposition.  There appears to be no dispute that Ms. Jiminez
testified during a deposition on August 1, 2022; Plaintiff’s counsel noticed
her for a second deposition on August 29, 2023; and she failed to appear at
that deposition.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.610 states that Plaintiff’s counsel may take only one deposition
of Olga Perez Jiminez absent a court order or a stipulation that requires the
consent of the deponent.  Plaintiff does
not establish compliance with these requirements.  Nor does Plaintiff establish that Jiminez was
designated as a person most qualified, which is another exception.  Based upon the foregoing, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion to preclude Ms. Jiminez from testifying.  To the extent Plaintiff argues that Defendant
coerced Jiminez to fail to appear, Plaintiff’s counsel may cross-examine Jiminez
and/or Padilla on this point.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion is granted with respect to any hearsay issues, i.e., other employees may
not testify that Ms. Perez told them that Plaintiff was stealing tips.  However, other employees may testify that
Plaintiff was stealing tips if based upon personal knowledge, e.g., they saw
her stealing tips.  
 