 Case Number:  23STCV24546    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  39 Kevin Garlington for Serenity Inclusive
Family Services, LLC v. Tammy Y. Wade
Case No. 23STCV24546
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
Plaintiff Kevin Garlington filed
this action “for Serenity Inclusive Family Services, LLC.”  Mr. Garlington
does not identify himself as an attorney in the complaint.  To the
contrary, Mr. Garlington states that he is litigating this case “in pro
per.”  (See Complaint, pp. 1, 4.)  The complaint does not assert any
personal claims on behalf of Mr. Garlington.  Rather, the complaint
asserts claims on behalf of Serenity Inclusive Family Services, LLC based upon
allegations that the individual defendants “executed an illegal plan and
operation within Serenity Inclusive Family Services LLC to defraud
government-funded programs and recipients of government-funded programs
directly and indirectly related to the services provided by the Plaintiff under
contract with the South Central Los Angeles Regional Center for Persons with
Developmental Disabilities, Inc.”  (Complaint, ¶ 7.)  Among other
things, the complaint seeks relief on behalf of Serenity Inclusive Family
Services, LLC: An order “removing the Defendants from Serenity Inclusive Family
Services as employees . . . .”  (Complaint, p. 3.)
 
Mr. Garlington appears to assert
derivative claims on behalf of Serenity Inclusive Family Services, LLC
(“Serenity”).  However, he does not allege that he was a shareholder of
Serenity during the operative time period, as required by California Corporations
Code section 800(b)(1).  More important, a non-lawyer cannot maintain a
derivative action.  Court have repeatedly held that the substantive right
in a shareholder derivative suit is that of the corporation, not the
shareholders.  (See Phillips v. Tobin, 548 F.2d 408, 411 (2d Cir. 1976);
see also Ross v. Bernhard, 396 U.S. 531, 538-539 (1970).)  “Since a
corporation may not appear except through an attorney, likewise the
representative shareholder cannot appear without an attorney.”  (Phillips,
supra, 548 F.2d at p. 411.)  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the
Court noticed its own motion for judgment on the pleadings, per the authority
of Code of Civil Procedure section 438(b)(2).  The Court issued and served
a written order on December 15, 2023, and authorized Plaintiff to file a
written opposition on or before January 2, 2024.  (See Court’s Minute Order, December 15, 2023,
p. 2.)  The order stated:
 
“The Court’s tentative order is to
dismiss this case because the complaint does not state that Mr. Garlington was
a shareholder of Serenity during the relevant time period and is an attorney,
and therefore he has no standing to pursue this action. The Court’s tentative
order is to dismiss this case with prejudice unless Mr. Garlington can
demonstrate that he was a shareholder of Serenity during the relevant time
period and is an attorney who is licensed in the State of California or
eligible for pro hac vice admission.”
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, December 15, 2023, p. 3.)  The Court also provided notice: “If Mr.
Garlington does not appear at the hearing, either remotely or in-person, absent
good cause, the Court shall adopts its tentative order and dismiss this case
with prejudice.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the Court’s motion or file anything suggesting
that he is an attorney or has standing to prosecute this case as a
self-represented party.  Therefore, the
Court orders as follows:
 
1.         The
Court grants its own motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
            2.         The Court dismisses this case with
prejudice.
 
            3.         The Court’s clerk shall serve this
order upon Plaintiff.  No further notice
is required.  
 
 