 Case Number:  22STCV00384    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  39 Isla Regan,
et al. v. CHA Hollywood Presbyterian, Case No. 22STCV00384
 
Plaintiff Isla
Regan, by and through her guardian ad litem, Patrick Regan, filed this medical
malpractice action against CHA Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center (the “hospital”),
among others, following the death of her mother.  The hospital has settled this case for
$850,000, and the parties seek approval of this settlement.  The Court finds that the settlement is fair
and reasonable under the circumstances.  Plaintiff
herself suffered no injuries and requires no medical/psychological care as a
result of the incident.  Also, Plaintiff’s
factual allegations focus more on negligence by physicians, as opposed to the hospital
staff, which suggests that Plaintiff’s case against the hospital involves more
litigation risk and less potential liability. 
The Court notes that the parties reached this settlement through an arms-length
negotiation involving a mediation through Judicate West.  Therefore, the Court approves the settlement
amount.
 
The Court
approves the deductions for costs of $28,810.45, which are reasonably related
to the litigation.  The Court notes that
there are no “overhead” charges, like routine copying, etc.  The costs are commensurate with what the
Court would expect for a case of this nature. 
 
The Court
approves the requested attorneys’ fees of $194,845.09.  Plaintiff’s counsel used a sliding scale
based on the amount of the recovery, but the total is approximately 24 percent
of the total after costs.  The Court
finds that this fee is fair and reasonable under the circumstances, as the Court
can determine from the record that Plaintiff’s counsel did sufficient work to
earn this fee.
 
The Court
orders that all proceeds must be used for the benefit of Isla Regan.  The Court approves use of $425,505.13 to purchase
a single-premium deferred annuity, which appears to be a sound investment.  The Court approves a distribution of $20,000
to Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem and father, Patrick Regan, but orders that
these proceeds may only be used for the benefit of Plaintiff.  The Court approves a deposit of $19,317.97 into
a blocked account.
 
The Court
understands that there is a Medi-Cal lien of $161,521.36, but Plaintiff’s
counsel intends to attempt to negotiate a further reduction in this line.  Plaintiff’s counsel proposes that he keep
this amount in his attorney-client trust account until the lien is
finalized.  Plaintiff’s counsel should be
prepared to discuss at the hearing how the balance of the funds should be
distributed if there is a further reduction in the lien.  
 