  Case Number:  23STCV08198    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KBS HOLDCO, LLC,
  a California limited liability company doing business as REGENCY OUTDOOR
  ADVERTISING, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
S3D PARTNERS, LLC; JAYESH KUMAR; VIMAL
  PATEL; GOVIND KUMAAR; MADHUBEN KUMAR; KETAN KUMAR; and DOES  1 through 25, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV08198
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO EXTEND THE TIME TO SEEK
  DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
Date: March 25, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
KBS Holdco, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None.

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.

 
BACKGROUND
             On April 12, 2023,  Plaintiff KBS Holdco, LLC dba Regency Outdoor
Advertising (“Plaintiff”) filed this operative Complaint against Defendants S3D
Partners, LLC; Jayesh Kumar; Vimal Patel; Govind Kumaar; Madhuben Kumar; Ketan Kumar;
and DOES 1 through 25, inclusive for: (1) Promissory Fraud; (2) Fraud in the
Inducement; (3) Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation;
(5) Fraudulent Concealment; (6) Breach of Written Contract; (7) Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (8) Indemnification; and (9)
Violation of Business & Professions Code Section 17200.  
 
            On September 1, 2023, this Court
entered default against Defendants S3D Partners, LLC,
Madhuben Kumar, and
Ketan Kumar. 
 
            On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this instant Motion to Extend the Time to Seek Default Judgment. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            When a defendant has been served and
no answer, demurrer, or certain motion has been filed within the time specified
in the summons, the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 585, subd. (b).) The court shall then render judgment in the
plaintiff’s favor, not exceeding the amount stated in the complaint or
statement of damages, as appears by the evidence to be just. (Ibid.)  
 
When
a default is entered, the party who requested the entry of default must obtain
a default judgment against the defaulting party within 45 days after the
default was entered, unless the court has granted an extension of time.”¿(Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.110(h).)
 
Motion to Extend Time to Seek Default Judgment
            Plaintiff moves for an order to
extend the time to seek a default judgment against Defendants S3D Partners, LLC,
Madhuben Kumar, and Ketan Kumar (“Defaulting Defendants”) by 90-days. Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to extend the time to obtain a default judgment
because it has been unable to serve the remaining three Defendants in this
action: Jayesh Kumar, Vimal Patel, and Govind Kumaar. Plaintiff further
contends that it intends to complete service of the remaining defendants and to
seek entry of default against them all as soon as possible. Moreover, Plaintiff
argues it would preserve judicial resources, avoid the need for multiple
prove-up proceedings that relate to the same underlying causes of action, and
avoid several judgments if the Court were to extend Plaintiff’s time to obtain
a default judgment against Defaulting Defendants. Plaintiff also asserts that after
the Defaulting Defendants were served, an attorney named Chad Biggins (“Biggins”)
represented to Plaintiff via email that he represents or likely represents all
Defendants except Vimal Patel. (Steinbach Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) 
 
Plaintiff
asserts that Biggins indicated he would accept service for Jayesh Kumar and
Govind Kumaar. (Id.) Plaintiff contends Biggins has not filed any
responsive pleadings or otherwise made an appearance on behalf of these
Defendants. Additionally, Plaintiff contends on September 15, 2023, it emailed
Biggins two Notices of Acknowledgement of Receipt for Defendants Jayesh Kumar
and Govind Kumaar, requesting he confirm acceptance on those Defendants’
behalf. (Id., ¶ 7, Ex. B.) Plaintiff contends Biggins never responded to
this email and no Notices of Acknowledgement of Receipt were ever returned to
Plaintiff from Defendants Jayesh Kumar and Govind Kumaar or Biggins. (Id.)

 
Similarly,
Plaintiff asserts it has not been able to serve Defendant Vimal Patel in
connection with this case either. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends it does not
appear that Patel is represented by counsel in this case. Also, Plaintiff
contends that a process server it retained previously attempted to serve Patel
but could not locate him. (Steinbach Decl., ¶ 8.) Although Biggins represented
that it was his understanding that Patel did not exist, Plaintiff argues in
another matter it brought against the same defendants, Patel was represented by
an attorney named Brigid Joyce (“Joyce”). (Id., at ¶, Ex. A.) Plaintiff
asserts that Joyce has refused to accept service on Patel’s behalf as to the
summons and complaint in this case. Likewise, Plaintiff contends it has
retained an investigative firm, Lynx Insights, to assist with locating and
serving Defendants Jayesh Kumar, Vimal Patel, and Govind Kumaar with the
summons and complaint but so far its efforts have not succeeded. (Steinbach
Decl., ¶ 9.) Lastly, Plaintiff asserts it intends to apply to the Court for
permission to serve the remaining defendants by publication as soon as
possible. (Id., at ¶ 10.)
 
            The Court finds that good cause
exist for an extension of time for Plaintiff to seek default judgment against
all six defendants in this case. Plaintiff has shown that it has not been able
to serve the summons and complaint on the remaining three defendants despite
diligent efforts to do so. Furthermore, Plaintiff has demonstrated that the
preservation of judicial resources and avoidance of default prove-ups will be
accomplished by allowing them to pursue service by publication on the remaining
defendants, seek entry of default against those defendants if they do not
respond, and file one single request for default judgment against all six
defendants.  The Court therefore sets an
OSC re filing of a request for default judgment against defendants for October
18, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
            Therefore, the motion is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 25th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



