 Case Number:  24STCP00106    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



City
  of Los Angeles, a governmental entity,  
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
Yashda Vanda, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Respondents.                               


 


      CASE NO.:  24STCP00106
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO STAY ALL PROCEEDINGS OF
  PETITION TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD
 
Date: March 25, 2024
Time: 9:00 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: United
Firefighters of Los Angeles City (“UFLAC”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: City
of Los Angeles (the “City”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On September 27, 2019, Petitioner
the City and the collective bargaining unit UFLAC, Local 112, on behalf of
Respondent, Yasha Y. Vand and other represented bargaining unit members,
entered into a written collective bargaining agreement entitled Memorandum of
Understanding Regarding the Firefighters and Fire Captains Representation Unit
(the “MOU” or the “Agreement”). [Petition to Vacate or, in the Alternative, to
Modify Arbitration Award dated December 1, 2023 (the “Petition”), ¶ 1 and
Declaration of Dexter Rappleye (“Rappleye Decl.”) in Support of Motion to Stay
Proceedings on Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award (the “Motion”), ¶ 2.]  In February of 2023, UFLAC filed a grievance
alleging that the City had violated the MOU in connection with allegedly
overdue payments, and on March 16, 2023, UFLAC invoked the arbitration
procedure under the MOU.  (Id. at
¶ 3.)  Martin Henner was selected as
arbitrator (the “Arbitrator”) and on September 7, 2023, the Arbitrator conducted
the arbitration. (Id.) 
 
On
November 13, 2023, a group of City employees within the bargaining unit
represented by UFLAC filed a lawsuit against the City in the U.S. District
Court for the Central District of California, entitled Keeley Abram, et al.
v. City of Los Angeles, Case No. 2:23-cv-09565-WLH-JPR (“Abram” or
“the Federal Action”). (Id. at ¶ 4.) The initial Complaint in Abram
sought relief for violations of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C.
§§ 201, et seq. (the “FLSA”), allegedly arising from the City’s failure
to make payments required under the MOU. 
(Id.)
 
On
December 1, 2023, the Arbitrator issued a final decision and award (the
“Award”).  (Id. ¶ 5 and Exhibit B.)  On January 10, 2024, Plaintiffs in the
Federal Action filed a first amended complaint, in which they added UFLAC as a
party and added a new claim seeking enforcement of the Award pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure, § 1287.4. 
(Id., Exhibit C.)
 
On
January 11, 2024, the City filed the Petition in this action, in which the City
sought to vacate or, in the alternative, modify the Award.   
 
            On January 29, 2024, UFLAC filed the
Motion in this action, in which it sought to stay the proceedings in the
instant case, including the Petition to vacate the Award. On March 12, 2024, the
City filed its Opposition. On March 18, 2024, UFLAC filed its reply. 
DISCUSSION
            “Trial courts generally have the
inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote
judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.
App. 4th 1484, 1489 [citations omitted]). They also have the discretion to stay
enforcement of judgments or orders, “whether or not an appeal will be taken
from the judgment or order and whether or not a notice of appeal has been
filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 918.) “When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or
this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer,
all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the
exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically
pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of
proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of
this Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 187.) “[W]e believe the power of a court to
stay proceedings … was inherent at common law and is now vested in the superior
courts of this State.” (Bailey v. Fosca Oil Co. (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d
813, 817.)¿¿ 
 
            Stay Proceedings
UFLAC
argues that this matter should be stayed because the Federal Action involves a  substantially similar subject matter to the
within action and is pending before a federal court. UFLAC notes that this
Court has inherent authority to stay a proceeding to ensure duplicative actions
are not tried at the same time. “When a federal action has been filed covering
the same subject matter as is involved in a California action, the California
court has the discretion but not the obligation to stay the state court action.
(Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (1993) 15 Cal.
App. 4th 800, 804 (“Caiafa”)). The Court recognizes that both actions include a
claim for relief entitled Petition for Enforcement of Arbitration Award. (Rappleye
Decl., Exhibit C; and Complaint in this action.) 
 
In
opposition, the City argues that UFLAC consented to bring all motions to
enforce the arbitration agreement in state court because the parties’
arbitration agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act and the
arbitration was held within the state. (Opp. 5.)  The City also argues that UFLAC’s petition to
confirm raises purely state law questions which should be determined in the
state courts. (Opp. 6.) The City further argues that an order of this Court
regarding the conduct of arbitration will not impair the district court’s
ability to rule on the merits of the alleged FLSA violation. (Id.)
Additionally, the City contends that UFLAC is not part of the FLSA claim
because it is a labor union. (Opp. 7.)
 
In
reply, UFLAC argues that it has not consented to forego a federal forum to
enforce its arbitration award because “the MOU does not include any
forum-selection clause indicating that UFLAC must enforce arbitration awards in
state court. Nor has the City identified any other statements or conduct by
UFLAC that could support a waiver.” (UFLAC Reply, p. 3, lines 11-13.) UFLAC further
argues that consenting to state court jurisdiction does not waive the right to
invoke federal court jurisdiction in an appropriate case. (Id.)
 
A
Stay is Appropriate in this Case
When
a federal action has been filed that covers the same subject matter as is
involved in a California action, the judge in the California action has the
discretion, but not the obligation, to stay that action. (Benitez v.
Williams (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 270, 276; Farmland Irr. Co.
v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215 (“Farmland”) (stay of the
California proceedings “is not a matter of right, but within the sound
discretion of the trial court.”)  In this
regard, courts should consider: (1) “the importance of discouraging multiple
litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party, avoiding unseemly
conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions;” and (2) “whether the rights
of the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction
because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or
the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.” (Farmland,
supra, 48 Cal.2d at 215.) Each of these factors weighs in favor of this
Court’s exercising its discretion to grant the stay. ¿ 
 
Same
Parties and Subject Matter 
The
Federal Action involves the same parties and subject matter as are involved in
the instance state case. The Federal Action is intertwined with UFLAC’s
petition to enforce the Award, which provides for an audit to identify backpay
owed to each affected employee. Therefore, the Court finds that the Federal Action
includes the same parties and subject matter as the instant case because the Award
is affected by the outcome of both cases. 

 
Federal
Action Pending Proceedings 
The
district court has acquired jurisdiction over UFLAC’s petition to enforce the
Award, which involves the same subject matter as the City’s petition to vacate
that same Award.  UFLAC filed a Motion
for Partial Judgment on the Pleadings in Abram seeking a ruling
confirming the Award, and the City of Los Angeles filed a Motion to Dismiss
UFLAC’s petition. The District Court can decide whether to exercise its
supplemental jurisdiction over UFLAC’s petition. Both motions will be heard on
April 12, 2024. Therefore, the Court finds that the pending hearings in the
Federal Action weigh in favor of staying the proceedings. 
 
Federal
or Civil Forum 
UFLAC’s
reliance on Caiafa is instructive because of its similarities to the
present action. In Caiafa, an insurer filed a civil RICO suit against an
attorney in federal court, alleging that the attorney defrauded the insurer by
submitting padded legal bills and engaging in unnecessary work. (Caiafa, supra,
at 15 Cal.App.4th 802-803.) The attorney subsequently filed a petition
against the insurer in Los Angeles Superior Court to compel arbitration of a
dispute over the insurer’s failure to pay the attorney’s fees that were at
issue in the federal action. (Id. at 802-03.) The Court of Appeal upheld
the trial court’s order staying all proceedings on the petition to compel
arbitration. (Id. at 805.) Significantly, the Court of Appeal
stated  “[t]he federal court action which
was pending at the time Caiafa filed the petition to compel arbitration in
state court raised issues much broader than the amount of Cumis counsel fees.
Yet the resolution of those broader issues almost certainly would determine
whether Caiafa was entitled to Cumis fees at all and, if so, the proper amount
of those fees.” (Id. at 806.) Similarly, in this case, UFLAC’s
Arbitration Award is in dispute along with the broader FLSA claims but if the
District Court grants supplemental jurisdiction, then it could determine the
Arbitration Award issue. 
 
The
City argues that Caiafa is inapplicable because the federal case in Caiafa
had been pending for nine months when the state action was filed, whereas the
filings in this case “were days apart.” (Opp. 6.)  As the court held in Mave Enters v.
Travelers Indem. Co. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1408, 1423-1424, however, a
court acquires “subject matter jurisdiction when the [] action was filed.” Here,
the Federal Action was filed on November 30, 2023, while the instant civil case
was not filed until January 11, 2024.  For
all the reasons discussed above, the Court exercises its discretion and finds
that a stay of the within action is appropriate as being in the interests of
justice and to promote judicial efficiency.
 
The
Motion for a Stay of the Proceedings is therefore GRANTED.  The Court sets a Status Conference in this
matter for May 31, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The
parties are ordered to each file a Status Report detailing the status of the
Federal Action, to be filed at least seven (7) court days before the Status
Conference.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 25th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 