 Case Number:  22STCV18686    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Continue Trial
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On June
8, 2022, Plaintiffs Brandon Dalton (“Plaintiff”) and Terrell Lee filed a
complaint against Defendants Ricardo Reta, Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1 through 100, alleging claims for
personal injuries arising out of an alleged vehicle accident on July 5, 2020.
 
On July 25, 2022, Defendant County of Los Angeles,
erroneously sued as Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, filed an answer to
the complaint.
 
On June 20, 2023, Defendant Reta filed an answer to the
complaint.
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to continue
trial. On March 19, 2024, Plaintiffs Dalton and Lee filed an amended motion. Defendants
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and Ricardo Reta (collectively
“Defendants”) filed an opposition on April 2, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Trial is currently set for June 4, 2024. On February 5, 2024, the Court
and parties realized there was a representative issue as to Plaintiff Lee as a
motion to be relieved was granted on November 29, 2023, contingent on filing
with the court proof of service of the order; no was filed. (Terzian Decl., ¶¶ 8,
9.) On March 18, 2024, it was determined Plaintiff Lee was still represented by
the Law Office of Larry H. Parker. (Id., ¶ 11.)
Counsel attests they have not received any correspondence from Plaintiff Lee,
and has since filed a second motion to be relieved as counsel. (Id., ¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff contends there is good cause to continue trial 120 days to
allow Plaintiff Lee the time either to find new representation or to prepare
his case in pro per.
Defendant argues this is the third continuance and Plaintiffs have
shown a lack of diligence in proceeding with this case. (Opposition, 7:10-12.)
Defendant claims it will be prejudiced if trial is continued as Defendant has
already drafted, filed, and served motions in limine and prepared trial
documents. (Id., 8:23-26.)
The Court finds Plaintiff has established good cause for a short trial
continuance of 120 days as the question as to the representation of Plaintiff
Lee was only recently settled on March 18, 2024, and as counsel proceeds with a
motion to be relieved, Plaintiff Lee will need time to find new representation
or prepare for trial in pro per.
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The Motion to
Continue is GRANTED. 
The trial date
is advanced and continued to a date in early October 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.