 Case Number:  23STCV00085    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On January 3, 2023, Southern California Gas Company
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Erik D. Karas and Tanja B. Karas
(collectively “Defendants”) for negligence and premises liability causes of
action arising from an incident on January 4, 2021, in which a dog allegedly charged
at one of  Plaintiff’s employee, causing the
employee to fall and sustain injuries. 
Defendants filed an answer to the complaint on June 2, 2023.
 
On March 5, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for leave
to file a cross-complaint. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
CCP § 428.10 provides that a party against
whom a cause of action has been asserted may file a cross-complaint setting
forth:  “(b) Any cause of action he has
against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is
already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts
a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him.”  (CCP
§ 428.10(b).) A party shall obtain leave of court to file a cross-complaint if
it is not concurrently filed with the answer or at any time before the court
sets a trial date. Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time
during the course of the action.  (CCP §
428.10(c).)  
Where, as here, the cross-complaint is
permissive, the Court has broad discretion regarding whether to grant or deny
leave.  (Crocker Nat’l Bank v. Emerald
(1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) ¿¿
Discussion
Defendant seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint against Arizona Pipeline Company (and Roe cross-defendants).  One of the defendants contends that prior to
the incident, he was contacted by a representative from Arizona Pipeline
Company, who told him it  was not
necessary to secure his dog before the Plaintiff’s work on the nearby gas lines.
(Motion, 4:10-19.) Defendants contend Arizona Pipeline Company failed to tell
Plaintiff about the dog.  According to
Defendants’ counsel, this information was learned only during the investigation
of the claims and potential defenses.
Defendants argue that the cross-complaint
will not cause any prejudice or delay, as the cross-complaint will only add a
small amount of discovery as Arizona Pipeline Company is a contractor for
Plaintiff. (Motion, 5:18-26.)
Defendants include a copy of the
Cross-Complaint with its filing. (Wallin Decl., ¶ 11; Exhibit A.)
The Court finds that the cross-complaint
arises out of the same series of occurrences as Plaintiff’s complaint, a dog
bite incident occurring on January 4, 2021. Plaintiff does not oppose the
motion, and so it does not appear that granting the motion will cause any undue
prejudice to Plaintiff.  The Court is
aware that the trial date is July 2, 2024, and a newly added party may need
some time to conduct discovery, but given the nature of the claims and defenses
it appears that any continuance is likely to be reasonably brief.
The motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion.
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendants LEAVE to file the Cross-Complaint attached to the
moving papers within 10 days of the hearing on this motion. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.