 Case Number:  23STCP04613    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  82 Jeffrey Prang,                                                                           Case No. 23STCP04613
Los Angeles County
Assessor
 
v.                                                                                    Hearing: October 18, 2024
Location: Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
Assessment Appeal
Board No. 2                              Department:
82
of the County of Los
Angeles                                           Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
            Petitioner moves to augment the
record to include 15 additional comparables (“comps”) that the Board
excluded.  The real party in interest,
Time Warner Cable, Inc. (“TWC”), opposes the motion.  
 
“As a general rule, a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is
conducted solely on the record of the proceeding before the administrative
agency.” (Richardson v. City and County of San Francisco (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 671, 702.)  However, “[w]here
the court finds that there is relevant evidence that . . . was improperly
excluded at the hearing before respondent, it may enter judgment as provided in
subdivision (f) remanding the case to be reconsidered in the light of that
evidence; or, in cases in which the court is authorized by law to exercise its
independent judgment on the evidence, the court may admit the evidence at the
hearing on the writ without remanding the case.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (e).)  The movant must establish “the relevancy of
the evidence” and demonstrate that the evidence was improperly excluded at the
administrative hearing.  (Ibid.)  
 
            Petitioner has not provided a copy
of the administrative record.  Although a
notice of lodging was filed on August 2, 2024, Petitioner did not deliver an
electronic copy to the court.  Therefore,
the court does not have sufficient information to resolve the motion.  The court will discuss whether to deny the
motion or continue the hearing with the parties.  
 