 Case Number:  24STCP00386    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  82 Compton Property Group LLC                              Case No. 24STCP00386
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
August 19, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
 The City of Compton                                          Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
                                     
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part 
Motion to Strike Portions of Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
            Compton Property Group LLC
(“Petitioner”) filed this petition for writ of mandate alleging that the
housing element of City of Compton (“Respondent” or “City”) does not
substantially comply with state law. 
Respondent now moves to strike certain prayers for relief in the
petition, specifically, paragraphs 3, 4(b), and 4(c), on the grounds that such prayers
are not authorized by statute or other law. 
Petitioner has not opposed the motion or requested leave to amend.  The motion is granted to the extent these
remedies conflict with the plain language of Government Code section
65755(a).  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Upon motion, the
court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)  As with a demurrer, “[t]he grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)  
 
Courts take a
“cautious” approach to motions to strike. 
“We have no intention of creating a procedural ‘line item veto’ for the
civil defendant.”  (PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1680, 1683.)  “Judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Pursuant to Government
Code section 65755, if a court determines that a city’s housing element does
not substantially comply with state law, the court may include in its judgment one
or more of the following provisions: 
 
(1) Suspend the authority of the
city, county, or city and county pursuant to Division 13 (commencing with Section 17910) of the Health and Safety Code, to issue building permits, or any
category of building permits, and all other related permits, except that the
city, county, or city and county shall continue to function as an enforcement
agency for review of permit applications for appropriate codes and standards
compliance, prior to the issuance of building permits and other related permits
for residential housing for that city, county, or city and county.
 
(2) Suspend the authority of the
city, county, or city and county, pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 65800) to grant any and all categories of zoning changes, variances, or
both.
 
(3) Suspend the authority of the
city, county, or city and county, pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 66410), to grant subdivision map approvals for any and all categories of
subdivision map approvals.
 
(4) Mandate the approval of all
applications for building permits, or other related construction permits, for
residential housing where a final subdivision map, parcel map, or plot plan has
been approved for the project, where the approval will not impact on the
ability of the city, county, or city and county to properly adopt and implement
an adequate housing element, and where the permit application conforms to all
code requirements and other applicable provisions of law except those zoning
laws held to be invalid by the final court order, and changes to the zoning
ordinances adopted after such final court order which were enacted for the
purpose of preventing the construction of a specific residential development.
 
(5) Mandate the approval of any or
all final subdivision maps for residential housing projects which have
previously received a tentative map approval from the city, county, or city and
county pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 66410) when the final map conforms to the approved tentative map, the
tentative map has not expired, and where approval will not impact on the
ability of the city, county, or city and county to properly adopt and implement
an adequate housing element.
 
(6) Mandate that notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 66473.5 and 66474, any
tentative subdivision map for a residential housing project shall be approved
if all of the following requirements are met:
 
(A) The approval of the map will
not significantly impair the ability of the city, county, or city and county to
adopt and implement those elements or portions thereof of the general plan
which have been held to be inadequate.
 
(B) The map complies with all of
the provisions of Division 2 (commencing with Section 66410), except those parts which would require disapproval of the
project due to the inadequacy of the general plan.
 
(C) The approval of the map will
not affect the ability of the city, county, or city and county to adopt and
implement an adequate housing element.
 


 
(D) The map is consistent with the
portions of the general plan not found inadequate and the proposed revisions,
if applicable, to the part of the plan held inadequate.
 
(Gov. Code § 65755(a).)  
 
            Respondent contends
that Petitioner’s requests for relief in prayers 3, 4(b), and 4(c) are not
authorized by section 65755 or any other law. 
The court notes that Petitioner seeks “[a]n injunction or other order
under Government Code section 65755,” which is sufficient for the court to
order any lawful remedy.  Therefore, the
challenged paragraphs are surplusage and unnecessary which is reason enough to
strike them.  
 
            Petitioner argues that
the court (Kin, J.) ordered remedies in Californians for Homeownership, Inc. v.
City of Beverly Hills, Case Number 23STCP00143. 
In that case, the court “suspend[ed] the authority of Respondents to
issue building permits . . . except for permits to create new residential
bedrooms or units, and except for permits subject to subdivision (b) of
Government Code section 65755, until the City has substantially complied with
the requirements of Article 5 of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the
Government Code . . . .”  (Oppo. at
4:22-25.)  That remedy is expressly
permitted by section 65755(a)(1).  The
remedies sought by Petitioner do not appear to be available under section
65755.  
 
Paragraph 4(c)
 
In paragraph 4(c),
Petitioner requests a judicial declaration that “[a]ll zoning actions,
subdivision actions, and public works projects that were and are inconsistent
with the general plan prior to the adoption of a housing element that
substantially complies with state law are set aside.”  This relief is not authorized by section
65755.  Further, as argued by Respondent,
the declaration requested in paragraph 4(c) would constitute an “an
impermissible collateral attack against already final decisions.”  (Motion to Strike 11:24-25.)  The requested declaration would conflict with,
among other things, the short 90-day statute of limitations that applies to
lawsuits that challenge “the decision of a legislative body to adopt or amend a
zoning ordinance.”  (Gov. Code §
65009(c)(1)(B).)  Paragraph 4(c) also
creates a vested rights problem in that it would apply to property owners who
have performed substantial work in reliance on permits issued by the City.  (See Hafen
v. County of Orange
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 133, 142-4.)   
 
Paragraph 3
 
In paragraph 3 of
the prayer, Petitioner seeks “[a]n injunction limiting approvals of additional
subdivision maps, parcel maps, rezonings, public works projects, and the
issuance of business permits pending adoption of a complete and adequate
general plan.”  As worded, this broad
injunctive relief is not authorized by section 65755.  If such relief were granted, it could
contradict provisions in section 65755 allowing for the adoption of zone
changes and subdivision maps when certain criteria are met. (See Gov. Code §
65755(b).)  As discussed, this paragraph
appears to be unnecessary, as the petition already seeks “[a]n injunction or
other order under Government Code Section 65755.”  (Pet. Prayer ¶ 2.)  
 
Paragraph 4(b)
 
In paragraph 4(b), Petitioner requests the following
judicial declaration: 
 
The City is not permitted to use the provisions in
subdivision (d)(1) or (d)(5) of Government Code Section 65589.5 to disapprove a
housing development project that qualifies for approval under subdivision (d)
of that section—that is, a project in which either (A) at least 20 percent of
the total units shall be sold or rented to lower income households, as defined
in Health and Safety Code Section 50079.5, or (B) 100 percent of the units
shall be sold or rented to persons and families of moderate income as defined
in Health and Safety Code Section 50093, or persons and families of middle
income, as defined in Government Code Section 65008— or to condition the
approval of such a project in a manner that renders it infeasible for
development for the use of very low, low-, or moderate-income households, or an
emergency shelter, including through the use of design review standards.
 
Government Code
sections 65755 and 65589.5 do not authorize such broad declaratory relief.  Under Government Code section
65589.5(d)(1)-(2), the City may disapprove a housing development project in
certain circumstances, including if the development project or emergency
shelter as proposed would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public
health or safety.  As Respondent argues,
Paragraph 4(b) of the prayer is improper because it contracts these provisions
of section 65589.5(d).  (Mot. 14.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
motion to strike is granted in part.  The
court strikes paragraphs 3, 4(b), and 4(c) from the petition to the extent they
conflict with the plain language of Government Code section 65755(a).  The motion is otherwise denied.  This order shall not prevent Petitioner from
seeking “[a]n injunction or other order under Government Code Section 65755,”
per Paragraph 2 of the Prayer for Relief. 

 
            2.         The
court denies leave to amend.
 
            3.         Respondent’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: October 18,
2024                                            ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    