  Case Number:  23STCP02247    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  82 Compton Property Group LLC                              Case No. 23STCP02247
 
v.                                                                     Hearing: October 18, 2024 
Location: Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
Department: 82                     
The City of Compton                                                Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
  
[Tentative] Order Denying
Motion for Attorney’s Fees
 
Petitioner Compton Property Group
(“Petitioner”) filed a petition for writ of mandate under the Housing
Accountability Act, codified at Government Code section 65589.5, directing
Respondent the City of Compton (the “City” or “Respondent”) to process Petitioner’s
Builder Remedy application for new development. 
Petitioner alleged that the City’s housing element plan was not
substantially in compliance with state law. 
Petitioner filed the instant petition on June 27, 2023.  On July 18, 2023, the City agreed to accept
Petitioner’s preliminary application.  Now,
Petitioner seeks attorney’s fees under three different code sections: (1) Government
Code section 65589.5; (2) Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5; and (3) Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.420.
 
            A.        Government
Code section 65589.5 – DENIED 
 
            Petitioner is not entitled to
attorneys’ fees under Government Code section 65589.5.  Subdivision (k) sets forth that an applicant,
including a housing organization, may bring an action to enforce the Housing
Accountability Act. (Gov. Code § 65589.5, subd.
(k)(1)(A)(i).) If the court finds the local agency disapproved a housing
development project without making the findings required by this section or
without making findings supported by a preponderance of the evidence, the court
can order compliance with this section. (Gov. Code §
65589.5, subds. (k)(1)(A)(i)(I), (k)(1)(A)(ii).) The court “shall award
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of suit to the plaintiff or petitioner . .
. .” (Gov. Code § 65589.5, subd. (k)(1)(A)(ii).)
Government Code section 65589.5, subdivision (h)(6) defines
“disapprove the housing development project as any instance in which a local
agency does any of the following: 
“(A) Votes on a proposed housing development project application
and the application is disapproved, including any required land use approvals
or entitlements necessary for the issuance of a building permit.
(B) Fails to comply with the time periods specified in
subdivision (a) of Section 65950. An extension of time pursuant to Article 5
(commencing with Section 65950) shall be deemed to be an extension of time
pursuant to this paragraph.
(C) Fails to meet the time limits specified in Section 65913.3.
(D) (i) Fails to make a determination of whether the project is
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing
with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code), or commits an abuse of
discretion…
(E)
Fails to adopt a negative declaration or addendum for the project, to certify
an environmental impact report for the project, or to approve another
comparable environmental document . . . .”
(Gov. Code § 65589.5, subd. (h)(6).)  None of the five situations it does identify
have occurred in this case, so Petitioner is not entitled to attorneys’
fees.  
 
            B.        Government
Code section 1021.5 – DENIED 
 
Petitioner is not
entitled to attorneys’ fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5.  In order to obtain fees, Petitioner must demonstrate
three things: (1) the action has resulted in the enforcement
of an important right affecting the public interest, (2) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary has been conferred on the general public or a
large class of persons and (3) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement are such as to make the award appropriate.  (See In re Conservatorship of Whitley
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 1206, 1214, internal quotations and citation omitted.)  “In
order to be eligible for attorney fees under section 1021.5, a plaintiff must
not only be a catalyst to defendant's changed behavior, but the lawsuit must
have some merit, as discussed below, and the plaintiff must have engaged in a reasonable
attempt to settle its dispute with the defendant prior to litigation.”  (Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 553, 560-561.)
 
Petitioner is not entitled to attorneys’ fees under section
1021.5.  Petitioner had ample financial
incentive to pursue this case, which makes this case inappropriate for
attorneys’ fees.  
 
In
evaluating the element of financial burden, the inquiry before the trial court
is whether there were insufficient financial incentives to justify the
litigation in economic terms.  If the
plaintiff had a personal financial stake in the litigation sufficient to
warrant the decision to incur significant attorney fees and costs in the
vigorous prosecution of the lawsuit, and award under section 1021.5 is
inappropriate.  Section 1021.5 was not
designed as a method for rewarding litigants motivated by their own pecuniary
interests who only coincidentally protect the public interest.  
 
(Millview County Water Dist. v. State Water Resources
Control Bd. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 759, 768-769, internal quotations,
alterations, and citations omitted.)  Moreover,
Petitioner did not make sufficient efforts to resolve the case before filing
this action.  Plaintiff attempted to
submit the preliminary application via email on Thursday, June 22, 2023, but
the City does not accept preliminary applications via email.  (See Delgadillo Decl. ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff submitted a preliminary application
on Monday, June 26, 2023, but because the City had not set the fee, the
planning technician could not accept the application.  (See id. ¶¶ 3-4.)  This action was filed the next day, on Tuesday,
June 27, 2023, at 10:02 a.m.  Respondent’s
counsel claims that he “reached out before the litigation was filed, but there
was no response.”  (Jacobs Decl. ¶ 18.)  Counsel provides no details, and the court
finds that the chronology—that lawsuit having been filed no more than 24 hours
later—does not support any finding of good faith efforts to resolve this
matter.  Therefore, the court denies the
motion under section 1021.5.
 
            C.        Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.420 – DENIED 
 
Previously,
the court granted Petitioner’s motion to compel further responses to
Petitioner’s requests for admission (“RFAs”) and awarded $1,100 in discovery
sanctions for that motion.  (See Court’s
Order, dated January 31, 2024.)  Then,
Respondent admitted several of the RFAs as true.  (See Jacobs Decl. ¶ 15 & Exh. 3.)  Now, Petitioner seeks “cost of proof”
sanctions.  
 
If a party fails to admit the genuineness of any document or
the truth of any matter when requested to do so under this chapter, and if the
party requesting that admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that
document or the truth of that matter, the party requesting the admission may
move the court for an order requiring the party to whom the request was
directed to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that proof,
including reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.420(a).)  Petitioner
never proved the genuineness of any matter that Respondent denied; the case has
been resolved by Respondent accepting Petitioner’s preliminary
application.  Moreover, the matters which
Respondent denied in their amended/supplemental responses were not so substantive
as to warrant cost of proof sanctions. 
Therefore, the motion is denied. 
 
                        D.        Prevailing Party and Interlocutory
Judgment 
 
Petitioner
asks the court to deem it the prevailing party with respect to the first cause
of action and to issue an interlocutory judgment in its favor.  The court declines to do so.  The case has not concluded, so it would be
premature to determine who is the prevailing party.  Under the “one judgment” rule, the court
cannot issue an interlocutory judgment. 
More important, it appears that the first and second causes of action
are moot.  Petitioner sought a writ to
require the City of Compton to accept and process its preliminary
application.  The City has done so.   
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s
motion for attorneys’ fees is denied. 
The court declines to find that Petitioner is the prevailing party at
this point.
 
            2.         Pursuant
to the order to show cause, the court dismisses the first and second causes of
action as moot.  This order is without
prejudice to Petitioner filing a new petition for writ of mandate challenging
any unlawful denial of the application.  
 
 
            3.         The
court bifurcates the third cause of action and transfer that claim to an
independent calendar court for trial.  
 
            4.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
¿ 
Dated: October 18, 2024                                            __________________________ 
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
Superior Court Judge 
 