

 
            This is a landlord-tenant
dispute over habitability. Plaintiffs are tenants who reside in an apartment
complex located at 544 E. 15th St., Long Beach, CA 90813 (Property). Plaintiffs
allege that their respective units contained – among other conditions –
inadequate plumbing, improper electrical wiring, a vermin infestation, and other
unsafe and unsanitary premises, all in violation of Civil Code section 1941.1
and Health and Safety Code section 17920.10. The City of Long Beach Department
of Development Services Code Enforcement Bureau inspected the Property and gave
written notice of the housing and health code violations to Defendants, and the
violations contained in those notices remained unabated for more than 35 days
after the inspection. Throughout the entirety of this time, Plaintiffs aver, Defendants
demanded and collected rent from Plaintiffs.
 
            The
Complaint contains causes of action for (1.) violation of Civil Code section
1942.2, (2.) breach of warranty of habitability, (3.) private nuisance, (4.)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, and (5.) negligence. 
 
            Defendant
Leafy Properties, LLC (Leafy Properties) demurred to the first through fifth causes
of action in the Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition. 
 
Additionally, Defendants Craig
Hsu and Karen Lee Hsu (Hsu Defendants) filed a motion to strike the request for
punitive damages in the Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer as to the first through fifth causes of action with leave to
amend. The motion to strike is denied. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
            
            Defendant Leafy Properties argues the Complaint fails to
state a claim against it.
 
            On January 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint
against Defendants Craig Hsu and Karen Lee Hsu (Hsu Defendants), as well as
Defendants Lawrence C. Wan and Lourdes Cordero Wan (Wan Defendants) and Does
1-100. On July 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a DOE
Amendment, naming Defendant Leafy Properties, LLC as Doe 1. 
 
            While the Complaint identifies and
alleges facts against the Hsu Defendants and Wan Defendants by grouping them
together in the term “Defendants,” the Complaint fails to incorporate the Doe
Defendants into that term at any point. Instead, the Complaint merely alleges
“each of the Defendants and DOES was the agent, employee and representative of
every other Defendant and DOE, and in doing the things hereinafter alleged, was
acting within the course and scope of such agency, service and representation,
and directed, aided and abetted, authorized or ratified each and every act and
conduct hereinafter alleged.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue in
their papers that Defendant Leafy Properties has been the owner of the Property
since approximately April 2023. Plaintiffs further note that the government
agency reports citing the code violations were sent directly to the owner of
the property, in this case Defendant Leafy Properties. Thus, according to
Plaintiffs, Defendant Leafy Properties may be assumed to have knowledge of the
facts equal, if not more, possessed by the Plaintiffs and further note that the
conditions and conduct at issue in the Complaint continue to exist to this day.
 
            None of these alleged facts, however,
are pleaded in the Complaint. The Complaint fails to even identify Defendant
Leafy Properties as the property owner. 
 
            Plaintiff has failed to state any
claim as to Defendant Leafy Properties. The demurrer by Leafy Properties is
sustained as to the first through fifth causes of action with leave to amend.
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            Hsu Defendants move to strike the request for punitive damages.
Specifically, Hsu Defendants move to strike the punitive damages request on the
grounds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts supporting malice, fraud,
or oppression. 
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include
allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10,
subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that Hsu
Defendants were landlords and owners of the Property, and knowingly maintained
the Property in unhabitable, dangerous condition. (Compl., ¶¶ 8-9.) Specifically,
they engaged in illegal, non-professional repairs which
have disturbed the lead paint. (Comp., ¶ 33.) There was substandard plumbing
and electrical work performed on the Property; the Property was also infested with
bedbugs and cockroaches. (Compl., ¶¶ 23-28.) The Complaint further alleges Defendants
refused to take corrective and/or curative measures in
spite of actual knowledge of the substandard conditions with a conscious
disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights, health and/or safety. (Compl., ¶ 34.)  
 
These allegations are sufficient to
support malicious conduct. The motion to strike is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained in its
entirety. The motion to strike is denied. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend.
The amended complaint shall be served and filed on or before November 13, 2023.