 Case Number:  23STCV07925    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SARAH M. STRANDBERG, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
INMAUNG F&M CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV07925
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR TERMINATING
  SANCTIONS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 23, 2024



 
On April 11, 2023, Plaintiff
Sarah M. Strandberg filed this action against Defendants Inmaung F&M Corporation
and Chavalit Inmaung.
On
October 10, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel discovery
and ordered Defendants to serve verified responses, without objection, to Form Interrogatories
– General, Form Interrogatories – Employment, and Request for Production, Set One
within 30 days.
On
November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for terminating sanctions due to Defendants’
failure to comply with the Court’s October 10, 2023 discovery orders.  Defendants did not file an opposition.
A
court may impose a terminating sanction against anyone engaging in conduct that
is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).)  Misuse
of the discovery process includes failing to respond to discovery, unjustifiably
making unmeritorious objections to discovery, and disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)  “The trial court may order a terminating sanction
for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]
conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to
the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
the discovery.’  [Citation.]  Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.  But
where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules,
the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’”  (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390 (Los Defensores).)
According
to Plaintiff, “Defendants willfully did not comply with the Court’s Order issued
on October 10, 2023.”  (Jarvis Decl. ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff’s contacted Defendants’ counsel on November
9, 2023  to inquire if they were going to
comply but got no response.  (Jarvis Decl.
¶ 12.)  Plaintiff’s counsel declares that
defense counsel has been nonresponsive to all attempts to contact him since after
the filing of Defendants’ Answer, and “Defendants have exhibited a consistent, willful
lack of cooperation in providing straightforward information and willfully, consistently
failed to meet and confer regarding both the case and discovery issues.”  (Jarvis Decl. ¶¶ 12, 14.)
Defendants’
failure to comply with a single order to produce discovery does not demonstrate
a history of abuse that justifies “the ultimate sanction.”  (See Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th
at p. 390.)  Additionally, Plaintiff filed
this motion just 18 days after Defendants’ deadline to produce verified responses.  This case is only about 9.5 months old, and the
trial date is over 6 months away.
Under
the totality of the circumstances, Plaintiff has not shown a history of willful
discovery abuse by Defendants, and the Court cannot find that less severe sanctions
would be ineffective and that terminating sanctions are warranted.
The
motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 