  Case Number:  22STCV03492    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  M    Superior Court    of California County of Los Angeles Southwest    District Torrance Dept. M       EMILY    PEREZ, et al.,          Plaintiffs,     Case No.:       22STCV03492       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         CITY OF    LOS ANGELES, et al.,         Defendants.                                Hearing  Date:                         January 11,  2024   Moving Parties:                      Defendant City of Los  Angeles   Responding Party:                  None   Motion for  Determination of Good Faith Settlement               The court considered the moving  papers and notice of non-opposition.  RULING             The motion for determination of good  faith settlement is GRANTED.  The court  ORDERS that in this action and all related actions, all present claims and  cross-complaints of any kind for implied indemnity, equitable comparative  contribution and apportionment or partial or comparative indemnity and  apportionment based on comparative negligence or comparative fault against Kiewit  Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co. be and are dismissed with  prejudice.  Any and all present and  future claims against it by or on behalf of joint tortfeasors or co-obligors  are barred. BACKGROUND On January 28, 2022, plaintiffs  Emily Perez and Joe Perez filed a wrongful death and survival action complaint  against City of Los Angeles, CST Industries, Inc., CST Covers Industries, Inc.,  Kiewit Construction, Inc. for (1) dangerous condition of public property, (2)  strict products liability, and (3) negligence. On April 13, 2022, plaintiffs filed  an amendment designating Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific  Co. as Doe 11. On April 20, 2022, CST Industries,  Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Kiewit. On April 21, 2022, CST Industries  filed a FACC. On May 9, 2022, plaintiffs filed a  FAC. On June 8, 2022, Kiewit filed a  cross-complaint against CST Industries. On September 2, 2022, the case was  transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M. On October 18, 2022, the court  overruled CST’s demurrer. On April 11, 2023, CST Industries,  Inc. filed a cross-complaint. LEGAL  AUTHORITY Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), “In the  alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and  to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith  settlement and a proposed order. The application shall indicate the settling  parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice,  application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return  receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with  the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and  proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may  file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of  the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice,  application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the  court may approve the settlement. The notice by a nonsettling party shall be  given in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. . . .”             Under CCP §877.6(b), “The issue of  the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of  affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed  in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the  hearing.” Under CCP §877.6(c), “A  determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar  any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the  settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or  partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or  comparative fault.” “The party asserting the lack of  good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”  CCP § 877.6(d). DISCUSSION             Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), defendant Kiewit  Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co. requests that the court  determine that the settlement entered into between moving defendant and  plaintiffs is in good faith.  In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App.  3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for  a good faith settlement determination: This court notes that of the  hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court  approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted  summarily by the trial court.  At the time  of filing in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will  develop.  If each motion required a full  recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response  to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,  literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions  would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would  waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to  say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of  good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of  the case is sufficient.   If the good faith settlement is  contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule  for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the  contesting party.  Once there is a  showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue  of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not  made in good faith.  If contested,  declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could  require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the  lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.     192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1260-1261  (citation omitted). “[Code of Civil Procedure] Section  877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure  for determining if a settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered  into in good faith and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint  tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when  good faith is shown.”  IRM Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.  App. 3d 94, 104. In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d  488, 499, the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive  factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith  under section 877.6:  “a rough  approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate  liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds  among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in  settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the  financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as  well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure  the interests of nonsettling defendants.”    The evaluation of whether a  settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of  information available at the time of settlement.”  Tech-Bilt,  38 Cal.3d at 499.  “‘[A] defendant’s  settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable  person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s  liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  Id. at 499.   “The party asserting the lack of  good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)),  should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far  ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with  the equitable objectives of the statute.   Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was  not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”  Tech-Bilt,  38 Cal.3d at 499-500.    “Thus, Tech-Bilt  held that in determining whether a settlement was made in good faith for  purposes of section 877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is  whether the amount paid in settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the  settlor’s proportionate share of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500 . . . .)  This is because one of the main goals of  section 877.6 is ‘allocating costs equitably among multiple tortfeasors.’  (Tech-Bilt,  supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 502 . . . .).”  TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior  Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.  “Accordingly, a court not only looks at the  alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also  consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to  be responsible for the same injury.   Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an  important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a  settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.   [Citation.]”  Id. at 166. Although unopposed, the court  considered the Tech-Bilt factors as  applied to the settlement between settling defendant Kiewit Infrastructure West  Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co. and plaintiffs. The FAC alleges that plaintiffs are  the natural adult children of decedent Jose Perez.  Decedent was an employee of Murray Company,  which was contracted with City of Los Angeles.   The project involved upgrade of underground sedimentation tanks at  Hyperion, including removal of existing mechanical parts and units.  The tanks, including the B5 tank involved in  the incident, hold approximately a million gallons each, and are approximately  20-plus feet deep.  Decedent was brought  in to assist the City with an acid wash procedure and construction involving  the primary sedimentation tanks.  On  March 8, 2021, while manually adjusting or lifting with a co-worker, a weakened  or corroded aluminum tank cover on the tank, using the tank cover’s folding  hinged flap handles, the folding hinged flap handle on his co-worker’s end  broke, or the co-worker otherwise lost control of his end, causing the tank  cover to drop into the tank.  When the  co-worker’s end dropped, decedent’s folding hinged flap handle trapped  decedent’s hand.  Decedent was thrown  20-plus feet into the tank to his death.   Hyperion was and is owned and operated by defendant City.  The tank covers, including the folding hinged  flap handles, were designed, fabricated, manufactured, and sold by CST’s  predecessor, Conservatek, and installed by Kiewit. First, as to a rough approximation  of plaintiffs’ total recovery, the settling defendant does not address  substantively in its application. Second, as to settling defendant’s proportionate  liability, it does not admit any liability.   Rather, defendant argues, plaintiffs’ damages were caused primarily by  decedent’s negligence.   Defendant contends that Murray Company and  decedent had been working onsite at the Hyperion Plant for many years on  various projects and that decedent was very familiar with the plant, the  sedimentation tanks, and the Conservatek aluminum covers.  Defendant contends that decedent was not  utilizing any form of fall protection and was not wearing a harness at the time  of the incident.  Defendant asserts that  Cal/OSHA completed a thorough investigation of the incident and concluded that  Murray Company had two distinct violations:   (1) failure to establish, implement, and maintain an effective Injury  and Illness Prevention Program; and (2) failure to ensure that employees  attempting to reposition a cover over the opening on top of a 20-foot drop  settling tank wore and used an approved fall protection system.  Further, defendant argues, plaintiffs’ claims  against defendant “are extraordinarily weak given that Defendant Kiewit did not  design, manufacture, or sell the tank covers” and that the City mandated the  use of Conservatek tank covers and approved detailed specifications for the  tank covers and the tank covers were installed (by Kiewit) 15 years before the  incident.  Defendant argues that it is  absolved from liability pursuant to the “competed and accepted” doctrine. Third, as to the amount paid in  settlement, the parties settled for $2.5 million.   Fourth, as to the allocation of  settlement proceeds, defendant asserts that it is not favoring one plaintiff  over another and that plaintiffs and their attorneys are free to structure the  apportionment as they see fit.  Fifth, the court recognizes that settling  defendant should pay less in settlement than if it were found liable after a  trial. Sixth, as to financial condition  and insurance policy limits, the settling defendant asserts that it “possesses  a substantial general liability insurance policy and has contributed far beyond  what is proportionate to their share of liability.” Seventh, as to whether there is  evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests  of the other defendants or cross-defendants, settling defendant explains that the  settlement was accomplished by way of a mediator’s proposal following private  mediation with Michael Moorhead, Esq. at Judicate West.  After considering the Tech-Bilt factors, the court finds and  determines that the settlement entered into between settling defendant Kiewit and  plaintiffs was made in good faith within the meaning of CCP §877.6.  Therefore, the application is GRANTED. Settling defendant Kiewit is ordered  to give notice of the ruling.


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
EMILY
  PEREZ, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV03492




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY OF
  LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 




Hearing
Date:                         January 11,
2024

 

Moving Parties:                      Defendant City of Los
Angeles

 

Responding Party:                  Defendant CST Industries, Inc.

 

Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement

 

            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.

RULING

            The motion for determination of good
faith settlement is GRANTED.  The court
ORDERS that in this action and all related actions, all present claims and
cross-complaints of any kind for implied indemnity, equitable comparative
contribution and apportionment or partial or comparative indemnity and
apportionment based on comparative negligence or comparative fault against City
of Los Angeles be and are dismissed with prejudice.  Any and all present and future claims against
it by or on behalf of joint tortfeasors or co-obligors are barred.

BACKGROUND

On January 28, 2022, plaintiffs
Emily Perez and Joe Perez filed a wrongful death and survival action complaint
against City of Los Angeles, CST Industries, Inc., CST Covers Industries, Inc.,
Kiewit Construction, Inc. for (1) dangerous condition of public property, (2)
strict products liability, and (3) negligence.

On April 13, 2022, plaintiffs filed
an amendment designating Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific
Co. as Doe 11.

On April 20, 2022, CST Industries,
Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Kiewit.

On April 21, 2022, CST Industries
filed a FACC.

On May 9, 2022, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.

On June 8, 2022, Kiewit filed a
cross-complaint against CST Industries.

On September 2, 2022, the case was
transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M.

On October 18, 2022, the court
overruled CST’s demurrer.

On April 11, 2023, CST Industries,
Inc. filed a cross-complaint.

LEGAL
AUTHORITY

Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), “In the
alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and
to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith
settlement and a proposed order. The application shall indicate the settling
parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with
the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of
the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice,
application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the
court may approve the settlement. The notice by a nonsettling party shall be
given in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. . . .”

            Under CCP §877.6(b), “The issue of
the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of
affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed
in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the
hearing.”

Under CCP §877.6(c), “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”

“The party asserting the lack of
good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”  CCP § 877.6(d).

DISCUSSION

            Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), defendant City
of Los Angeles requests that the court determine that the settlement entered
into between moving defendant and plaintiffs is in good faith. 

In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App.
3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for
a good faith settlement determination:

This court notes that of the
hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court
approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted
summarily by the trial court.  At the time
of filing in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will
develop.  If each motion required a full
recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response
to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,
literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions
would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would
waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to
say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of
good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of
the case is sufficient.

 

If the good faith settlement is
contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule
for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the
contesting party.  Once there is a
showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue
of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not
made in good faith.  If contested,
declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could
require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the
lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.  

 

192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1260-1261
(citation omitted).

“[Code of Civil Procedure] Section
877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure
for determining if a settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered
into in good faith and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint
tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when
good faith is shown.”  IRM Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.
App. 3d 94, 104.

In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499, the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive
factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith
under section 877.6:  “a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as
well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 


The evaluation of whether a
settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”  Tech-Bilt,
38 Cal.3d at 499.  “‘[A] defendant’s
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s
liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  Id. at 499.  

“The party asserting the lack of
good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)),
should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far
‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with
the equitable objectives of the statute. 
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”  Tech-Bilt,
38 Cal.3d at 499-500.  

 “Thus, Tech-Bilt
held that in determining whether a settlement was made in good faith for
purposes of section 877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is
whether the amount paid in settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the
settlor’s proportionate share of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500 . . . .)  This is because one of the main goals of
section 877.6 is ‘allocating costs equitably among multiple tortfeasors.’  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 502 . . . .).”  TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.  “Accordingly, a court not only looks at the
alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also
consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to
be responsible for the same injury. 
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. 
[Citation.]”  Id. at 166.

The court considered the Tech-Bilt factors as applied to the
settlement between settling defendant City of Los Angeles and plaintiffs.

The FAC alleges that plaintiffs are
the natural adult children of decedent Jose Perez.  Decedent was an employee of Murray Company,
which was contracted with City of Los Angeles. 
The project involved upgrade of underground sedimentation tanks at
Hyperion, including removal of existing mechanical parts and units.  The tanks, including the B5 tank involved in
the incident, hold approximately a million gallons each, and are approximately
20-plus feet deep.  Decedent was brought
in to assist the City with an acid wash procedure and construction involving
the primary sedimentation tanks.  On
March 8, 2021, while manually adjusting or lifting with a co-worker, a weakened
or corroded aluminum tank cover on the tank, using the tank cover’s folding
hinged flap handles, the folding hinged flap handle on his co-worker’s end
broke, or the co-worker otherwise lost control of his end, causing the tank
cover to drop into the tank.  When the
co-worker’s end dropped, decedent’s folding hinged flap handle trapped
decedent’s hand.  Decedent was thrown
20-plus feet into the tank to his death. 
Hyperion was and is owned and operated by defendant City.  The tank covers, including the folding hinged
flap handles, were designed, fabricated, manufactured, and sold by CST’s
predecessor, Conservatek, and installed by Kiewit.

Defendant City contends that the
parties have agreed to move forward with the City’s motion for summary judgment
and that the outcome will not impact the settlement in any way, which is for $1
million.

First, as to a rough approximation
of plaintiffs’ total recovery, the settling defendant does not address
substantively in its application.  In
opposition, CST Industries contends that plaintiffs are seeking $30 million in
damages and that the City’s settlement is less than 3.3% of total damages, and
13.3% of plaintiffs’ mediation demand. 
Further, CST Industries argues, the City’s settlement allows it to pay
$0 in settlement because the $1 million is the policy limit proceeds from
Murray Company’s insurance policy tendered to the City.

Second, as to settling defendant’s proportionate
liability, it does not admit any liability and argues that it cannot be liable
under the Privette Doctrine, which states that the hirer of an independent
contractor cannot be held liable for injuries sustained by the independent
contractor’s employees while on the job. 

In opposition, CST Industries
argues that the Privette Doctrine does not apply because the City’s conduct
falls within a recognized exception where a property owner retains control over
the workplace where an accident has occurred. 
Further, CST Industries asserts, the City possesses the vast majority of
liability exposure because decedent would not have fallen to his death had the
City not changed the manner of lifting the covers away from using a gantry or
if the City had maintained a working gantry or if the City Safety Supervisor had
not indicated to decedent that he could choose not to wear a safety harness or
if the City had not failed to inspect, maintain, and/or repair the property
after notice of severe corrosion.

Third, as to the amount paid in
settlement, the parties settled for $1 million.  

Fourth, as to the allocation of
settlement proceeds, defendant asserts that any allocation has been reserved to
plaintiffs and their counsel.

Fifth, the court recognizes that settling
defendant should pay less in settlement than if it were found liable after a
trial.

Sixth, as to financial condition
and insurance policy limits, the settling defendant does not address.

Seventh, as to whether there is
evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of the other defendants or cross-defendants, settling defendant explains that
on November 9, 2023, plaintiffs and defendants attended a full-day mediation
with mediator Michael D. Moorhead, and that the mediator proposed that the City
shall pay and plaintiffs accept $1 million. 
Defendant also notes that the settlement was reached after extensive
discovery that included multiple sets of written discovery and eight
depositions.

After considering the Tech-Bilt factors, the court finds and
determines that the settlement entered into between settling defendant City and
plaintiffs was made in good faith within the meaning of CCP §877.6.  Therefore, the application is GRANTED.

Settling defendant City is ordered
to give notice of the ruling.