  Case Number:  21STCV17425    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  B DAVID CROCKETT, TAMICKA OLIVER, Plaintiffs, v. PK3C, LLC Case No. 21STCV17425 DEFENDANTS KAE SOO KIM, YONG MIN KIM, YONG SON KIM AND YONG  MI KIM’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND NOTICE TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS The Court has reviewed the Motion of Defendants Kae Soo Kim,  Yong Min Kim, Yong Son Kim and Yong Mi Kim to Quash Service of Summons, the supporting  declarations, the Opposition and Exhibits and the Reply. THE LAWSUIT The Second Amended Complaint For Damages alleges claims for Breach  of Implied Warranty of Habitability, Maintenance of Nuisance, Intentional  Infliction Of Emotional Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress,  Negligent Misrepresentation, Breach of Contract, and Loss of Consortium.  Plaintiffs leased housing at 2920 50 West  Rosecrans Ave., Gardena, CA from PK3C, LLC.   Plaintiffs claim that Defendants “… leased to Plaintiff DAVID  CROCKETT and TAMICKA OLIVER in an UNINSURED dilapidated condition with water  leaking through the ceiling and infested with termites that caused the ceiling  to crash into DAVID CROCKETTS head while sitting on the toilet causing him to  suffer a brain injury and an herniated cervical disc which requires surgery…”  (Second Amended Complaint ¶ 5.) Defendant PK3C, LLC filed its Answer to the original  complaint on August 31, 2021.  On July 26,  2022 Plaintiffs filed a motion to amend the Complaint to add individual  defendants. “The proposed amendments to the  Complaint adds a cause of action for Alter Ego Liability of Owners and Members  of PK3C, LLC.  The addition of this new  cause of action would substantially change the protection normally aloted to  owners and members of DEFENDANT in that they could be held personally liable  for Plaintiffs injuries and damages alleged in the FAC.  In addition, the FAC includes a prayer for  judgment individually against [new] defendants YONG MIN KIM, KAE SOO KIM, YONG  Ml KIM, YONG SON KIM and PUK JA KIM.”   (Motion pg. 4:5-10.) SERVICE OF PROCESS Plaintiffs have been attempting to serve the individual  defendants. “A summons may be served by personal  delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be  served.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10. “(a) In lieu of personal delivery  of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served as specified  in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by  leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or  her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing  address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the  person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of  the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to  be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.  When service is effected by leaving a copy of  the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person  at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof.  Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after  the mailing. (b) If a copy of the summons and  complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to  the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90,  a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at  the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,  or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office  box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person  apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing  address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18  years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter  mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage  prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and  complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on  the 10th day after the mailing.”  Code  Civ. Proc., § 415.20 Plaintiffs claim that they served all defendants at an  address in La Crescenta, California in March 2024.  The La Crescenta address where service is  alleged to have taken place is not the residence of any defendant, nor was it  in March 2024 the business address of any individual defendant. The proof of service materials filed by Plaintiffs are admittedly  wrong.  Plaintiffs have attempted to  correct the initial proofs of service.   Even so, the purported service is not valid on any Defendant. THE INDIVIDUALS WERE NOT VALIDLY SERVED Plaintiffs note that old documents predating the attempted  service by years show the La Crescenta address for some of the  individuals.  That was the address for  PK3C, LLC on its Secretary of State filings.   It does not aid Plaintiffs. The evidence shows that Defendant Kae Soo Kim is an 89 year  old Asian male approximately 6 feet tall, residing in Germany for 55  years.  (Kae Soo Kim Declaration.)  He is not a 30 year old female approximately  5’4” as claimed on some of the proofs of service.  He was not validly served in La Crescenta in March  2024. Defendant Puk Ja Kim passed away in June 2017.  (Kae Soo Kim Declaration.)  She was not served. Defendant Yong Min Kim has resided in Spain for  approximately 4 years and was not served in California in March 2024.  (Yong Min Kim Declaration.) Yong Son Kim resides in Los Alamitos, California.  (Yong Son Kim Declaration.)  She was not validly served at the La Crescenta  address. Yong Mi Kim was purportedly served by substitute service at  La Crescenta by service on Kae Soo Kim described as a 30 year old Asian female.  That was not Kae Soo Kim.  That is not a valid substitute  service on her. ORDER The Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is  GRANTED in its entirety.