 Case Number:  23STCV12948    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WAWANESA GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CHERYL LYN MARTINEZ, an individual; JOYCE ROBLES, an individual;
  and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12948
 Hearing Date:   1/22/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Cheryl
  Lyn Martinez and Joyce Robles’s Demurrer to Complaint of Wawanesa General
  Insurance Company.



 
Background
Plaintiff Wawanesa General Insurance Company sues Defendants Cheryl Lyn
Martinez, Joyce Robles, and Does 1 through 30 pursuant to a June 7, 2023
Complaint alleging a single claim for declaratory relief.
Wawanesa seeks a declaration of rights
and duties between the parties in relation to insurance coverage bargained for
by Defendants with Wawanesa and pursuant to which Defendants seek a payout
connected to a January 10, 2022 accident involving Defendant Martinez and an
uninsured motorist. Specifically, Wawanesa seeks a judgment declaring that no
rights, duties, or obligations arose, exist, or may in the future arise or
exist under and by virtue of the provisions of the Wawanesa policy and with
respect to the claims for benefits and/or coverage under the Wawanesa policy
made by Defendants and Does 1 through 30, that arose out of the alleged January
10, 2022 accident.
On August 30, 2023, Defendants
filed a demurrer to the Complaint’s declaratory relief claim based on res
judicata, insufficiency of pleading, the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, and the failure to comply with court orders requiring the parties to
submit to arbitration. The res judicata claims are premised on the existence of
orders by Department 53 in Los Angeles Superior Court action 22STCP03407 (the
Underlying Action). 
On October 19, 2023, Wawanesa
opposed the demurrer.
On November 2, 2023, Defendants replied
to the opposition.
On November 5, 2023, the Court
continued the hearing on Defendants’ demurrer to give the parties an
opportunity to file a notice of related case in this and in the Underlying
Action.
On November 7, 2023, Wawanesa filed
notices of related case in this and in the Underlying Action.
On January 13, 2023, Department 53
denied relation of this action to the Underlying Action.
Defendants’ demurrer is now before
the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Per the request of Defendants, the
Court takes judicial notice of the papers filed by the parties and the rulings made
by Department 53 in relation to motions to compel arbitration (granted) and for
reconsideration (denied) in the Underlying Action. (Demurrer, RJN, Exs. A-B;
see Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Protection Dist.
(2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 600 [judicial notice may be taken as to existence of
document and legal effects deriving therefrom].)
The Court notes that on January 13,
2024, Department 53 denied relation of this action to the Underlying Action.
 
Demurrer
Legal
Standard
A defendant can file a special demurrer to a complaint
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (c) on the ground
that there is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (c); see Bescos v. Bank of Am.
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 378, 396-97.) A demurrer filed on this ground is
sometimes referred to as a plea in abatement. (See Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1992) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 787 (Plant Insulation).)
If a demurrer is sustained on this ground, the second action should be stayed,
but not dismissed, pending the termination of the first action. (Id. at
p. 788.) To success on a plea in abatement demurrer, the movant must show three
things: (1) there are multiple actions pending in California courts (Leadford
v. Leadford (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 571, 574 (Leadford)); (2) the
parties in both actions are the same and stand in the same relative position as
plaintiff and defendant (see Plant Insulation, supra, at p. 787);
and (3) both actions are based on substantially the same cause of action, i.e.,
judgment in the first action would bar recovery in the second action (Lord
v. Garland (1946) 27 Cal.2d 840, 848 (Lord)).

Order
Sustaining Demurrer: SUSTAINED; ACTION STAYED.
Here,
Defendants’ demurrer relies on various arguments for the relief sought: res
judicata rooted in the Underlying Action and rulings there; insufficiency of
pleading in the Complaint in this action; the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate pursuant to the insurance coverage issued by Wawanesa to Defendants;
and the failure to comply with court orders in the Underlying Action requiring
the parties to submit to arbitration. (Demurrer, pp. 6-12.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Wawanesa argues that Defendants enlarge the actual scope
of the arbitration ordered in the Underlying Action. Plaintiff also argues that
res judicata does not apply based on the terms of the insurance coverage
Defendants had with Wawanesa and based on the lack of similar issues with, and
lack of actual litigation or a final ruling in, the Underlying Action.
Plaintiff Wawanesa last argues that judicial economy supports its request for
declaratory relief because “[i]f th[is] Court ultimately rules that no rights,
duties, or obligations exist for Defendants’ claims under the provisions of the
Wawanesa policy, whether or not Defendants have a right to collect damages from
the uninsured motorist becomes moot[,] such that allowing arbitration to
proceed would constitute a waste of resources for the parties, the arbitrator
and the Court. (Opp’n, pp. 1-6.)
In
reply, Defendants rebut the argument that the scope of the arbitration order in
the Underlying Action was not so comprehensive as to encompass the relief in
this action, that res judicata applies in both its forms, and that judicial
economy supports resolving the disputes in arbitration. (Reply, pp. 2-5.)
The
Court finds in favor of Defendants for reasons differing from those in the
demurrer.
The
Court first notes that a trial court may construe a motion bearing one label as
a different type of motion. (Austin v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 930.) “‘The nature of a motion is determined by the
nature of the relief sought, not by the label attached to it. The law is not a
mere game of words. … The principle that a trial court may consider a motion
regardless of the label placed on it by a party is consistent with the court’s
inherent authority to manage and control its docket.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
Here,
a review of the demurrer shows that, in essence, it advances the argument that
another action is pending between the parties (the Underlying Action), in which
the parties stand in relative position to one another, and where judgment in
the first action (the Underlying Action) would bar recovery in this action.
Such a motion involves a plea in abatement demurrer pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (c).
Res
judicata in the form of claim preclusion relies on a final judgment on the
merits in the first suit, and res judicata in the form issue preclusion
(collateral estoppel) relies on final adjudication of an identical issue
actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first suit and asserted in
the second suit. (Samara v. Matar (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 796, 803-804).
Here, Defendants Martinez and Robles do not allege that the claims in the
Underlying Action have been resolved or that the issue raised in this action
involves an issue actually litigated and determined in the Underlying Action.
Rather, Defendants seek relief based on the pendency of, and arbitration orders
made, in the Underlying Action—i.e., the first action to be instituted.
Moreover, the fact that Department 53 has made some rulings in the underlying
action—e.g., ruling on the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement
between the parties and ordering arbitration of the dispute there—does not
trigger issue preclusion because the issue before the Court at this moment is
not whether, for example, arbitration is appropriate as to the claim in this
action, but rather, whether a demurrer should be sustained to Wawanesa’s
Complaint. The demurrer here is therefore one that more properly arises from a
plea in abatement.
The
Court next determines that sustaining the demurrer on these grounds is proper.
A
plea in abatement results in the second action being stayed, but not dismissed,
pending the resolution of the first action. (Plant Insulation, supra,
224 Cal.App.3d at p. 788.) To succeed on a plea in abatement demurrer, the
movant must show that (1) there are multiple actions pending in California
courts (Leadford, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 574), (2) the
parties in both actions are the same and stand in the same relative position as
plaintiff and defendant (see Plant Insulation, supra, at p. 787),
and (3) both actions are based on substantially the same cause of action, i.e.,
judgment in the first action would bar recovery in the second action (Lord,
supra, 27 Cal.2d at p. 848).
Here,
there is an earlier-filed and currently pending Underlying Action. (See 22STCP03407.)
This meets the first element of a plea in abatement demurrer: multiple pending
actions in California courts. (Leadford, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at
p. 574.).
Moreover,
the Underlying Action involves the same parties as this action, who stand in
the same relative position to one another in both actions as to insurance
coverage from the uninsured motorist accident. (Compare, e.g., 22STCP03407
Petition, pp. 1-5, with Complaint, ¶¶ 1-36.) This satisfies the second element
of a plea in abatement demurrer: that the parties in both actions are the same
and stand in the same relative position as plaintiff and defendant. (Plant
Insulation, supra, at p. 787.)
Last,
the Court determines that the two actions are based on substantially the same
cause of action, i.e., judgment in the first action would bar recovery in the
second action (Lord, supra, 27 Cal.2d at p. 848.) The issue in
the earlier-filed and currently pending Underlying Action is whether
“[Defendants] [are] legally entitled to collect damages from the owner or
operator of the uninsured motor vehicle [in the January 10, 2022 auto
collision] and/or the amount of those damages.” (22STCP03407 Petition, ¶ 8.)
The Underlying Action dispute arose after Defendants Martinez and Robles filed
“a claim with [Wawanesa] for [Martinez’s] bodily injury and property damage
claims” under the Defendants’ uninsured motorist coverage with Wawanesa. (22STCP03407
Petition, ¶ 7, Crissman Decl., Exs. A [policy at issue], B [copy of Defendants’
Jul. 1, 2022 demand for arbitration in relation to uninsured motorist
coverage].) On December 8, 2022, Department 53 ordered this issue to
arbitration, and on April 18, 2023, Department 53 denied a motion for
reconsideration of its December 8th order. (Demurrer, RJN, Exs. A, B; see
Request for Judicial Notice discussion supra.) If the issue before the
arbitrator in the Underlying Action is resolved in favor of Wawanesa, then
Defendants Martinez and/or Robles are not legally entitled to receive damages
from the uninsured motorist, and thus, are not entitled to receive compensation
pursuant to Defendants’ Wawanesa uninsured motorist coverage. Such a
determination would clearly undercut any need for this Court to make “a
judgment declaring that no rights, duties, or obligations arose, exist, or may
in the future arise or exist under and by virtue of the provisions of the
Wawanesa policy and with respect to the claims for benefits and/or coverage
under the Wawanesa policy made by Defendants and Does 1 through 30 which have
arisen out of the alleged January 10, 2022 accident.” (Complaint, ¶ 36.) As
stated by the opposition, “[i]f th[is] Court ultimately rules that no rights,
duties, or obligations exist for Defendants’ claims under the provisions of the
Wawanesa policy, [the question of] whether or not Defendants have a right to
collect damages from the uninsured motorist becomes moot.” (Opp’n, p. 6.) 
Equally
true is that, if the result in the Underlying Action is that Defendants are not
entitled to damages from the uninsured motorist based on the January 10, 2022
accident, then Defendants may not be entitled to coverage under the uninsured
motorist coverage with Wawanesa, and this action becomes moot. For example, the
arbitrator may determine that Defendant Martinez was at fault or in some other
way cannot recover damages from the uninsured motorist, triggering non-coverage
on Wawanesa’s part, and resolving the declaration of rights sought in this
action.
Defendant
Martinez and Robles’s demurrer is thus SUSTAINED, and this action is STAYED.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (c).) 

Conclusion
Defendants Cheryl Lyn Martinez and
Joyce Robles’s Demurrer to Complaint of Wawanesa General Insurance Company is
SUSTAINED.
The Court STAYS this action pending
a final resolution in the Underlying Action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(c).)