 Case Number:  20STCV49233    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  39 Alexander Moradi
v. Lyons Development, Inc., et al. 
Case No. 20STCV49233
Demurrer
 
            Plaintiff
Alexander Moradi, individually and as trustee of the Alexander Moradi Trust
(“Plaintiff”) filed this construction defect action against numerous
defendants, including El Verde Terrazzo, Inc. (“Defendant”).  Now, Defendant demurs, arguing that the
claims are time-barred by the statute of repose. 
 
An action for
property damage based on latent defects in the planning or construction of
improvements to real property must commence within ten years of substantial
completion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 337.15.)  “The date of substantial completion shall
relate specifically to the performance or furnishing design, specifications,
surveying, planning, supervision, testing, observation of construction or
construction services by each profession or trade rendering services to the
improvement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 337.15,
subd. (g).)  “As used in section 337.15
‘an improvement’ is in the singular and refers separately to each of the
individual changes or additions to real property that qualifies as an
‘improvement.’”  (Liptak v. Diane
Apartments, Inc. (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 762, 771.)  Similarly, an action must be brought within
three years of discovery of the alleged defects.  (See id., p. 769.)  
 
Defendant
completed its work on or before February 16, 2012, and Plaintiff had notice of
the water intrusion in late 2018. 
Defendant was first named as a defendant in the second amended
complaint, which was filed on December 1, 2022. 
However, Plaintiff filed the original complaint on December 24, 2020,
and named Doe defendants.  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s subsequent amendment relates back to the date of the filing of the
original complaint.  “[A]n amended
complaint relates back to the filing of the original complaint . . . so long as
recovery is sought in both pleadings on the same general set of facts.”  (Smeltzley v. Nicholson Mfg. Co. (1977)
18 Cal.3d 932, 935.)  The original
complaint and first amended complaint were filed within ten years of Defendant
having completed its work, and within three years of Plaintiff having
discovered the defects.
 
Defendant
argues that the relation-back doctrine does not apply because Plaintiff named Defendant
as a new defendant in the second amended complaint rather than filing a Doe
amendment.  This is a distinction without
a difference.  It matters not whether Plaintiff
named Defendant in the second amended complaint or whether Plaintiff filed the
second amended complaint omitting Defendant and filed a separate Doe amendment on
the same date.  There is a strong policy
in favor of litigating cases on their merits, and California courts permit
liberal amendment to the pleadings to name previously unknown defendants.  The dispositive issue is whether the
plaintiff named Doe defendants in the prior complaints; whether the plaintiff
was truly ignorant of the identity of the defendant when the prior complaints
were filed; and whether the plaintiff named the defendant within the requisite
time period.  Defendant argues that the prior
complaints do not contain sufficient factual allegations concerning the flooring.  The Court disagrees, as California has a notice-pleading
standard, and the prior complaints sufficiently allege construction
defects.  This is sufficient.
 
Based upon the foregoing,
the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         Defendant El Verde Terrazo’s demurer is
overruled.
 
2.         Defendant El Verde Terrazo shall file
an answer within twenty (20) days.
 
3.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 