  Case Number:  24TRCV00854    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  P Motion for Leave to File First Amended ComplaintMoving Party: Plaintiff Mary WhalenResponding Party: NoneRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn March 12, 2024, Plaintiff Mary Whalen (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Ok Ja Chung; Chris Chung; In Ok Chung; Song Ho Chung; and DOES 1-25 (collectively, “Defendants”), inclusive alleging a single cause of action for negligence.On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint to substitute erroneously named Defendant Chris Chung as Christian Eric Chong and erroneously named Ok Ja Chung as Ok Ja Chong.On November 13, 2024m Plaintiff filed the instant motion.On November 15, 2024 Defendants Ok Ja Chong and Christian Eric Chong filed an answer.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn Match 23, 2022, Plaintiff was crossing the street as a pedestrian when she was struck by a car operated by Christian Eric Chong. (Complaint, ¶ 18-20; Motion, p. 3, lines 25-26.)The driver fled from the scene, and Plaintiff was taken to Torrance Memorial Hospital for treatment. (Complaint, ¶ 22-23.)Plaintiff makes this motion on the basis that Defendants’ last names are “Chong,” not “Chung.” Further, she seeks to add her son as a plaintiff because it was only recently discovered that he witnessed the accident.LEGAL STANDARDUnder Code of Civ. Proc. section 473, subd. (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend . . .” (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason the request for amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff argues that good cause exists to allow amendment, as the proposed amendment would ensure the proper defendants are named. Further, any statute of limitations was tolled because, at the time of the accident, she lacked the legal capacity to sue, due to mental health conditions.Merits of the MotionPlaintiff argues that her mental health conditions, including dementia and Alzheimer’s, affected her ability to recall the events of the accident. As she lacks legal capacity, her affairs were being managed by her brother. In the course of reviewing her records, her counsel only recently discovered that her son had witnessed the accident. Thus, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend the complaint to add her son as a plaintiff and two causes of action for (1) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress and (2) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. Plaintiff also seeks to add a request for punitive damages.Plaintiff also seeks leave to amend the complaint to include the correct spelling of Defendants’ last name. Plaintiff erroneously sued Chris Chung and Ok Ja Chung, as the collision report listed Ok Ja Chung as the owner of the vehicle which struck Plaintiff. Plaintiff later discovered that the correct Defendants were Christian Eric Chong, the driver, and Ok Ja Chong, the owner of the vehicle. Thus, amendment should be allowed to ensure that the correct parties are named.The court finds that Plaintiff has complied with the requirements of rule 3.1324(a) and 3.134(b) by identifying the changes to be made; providing an explanation for why the amendment was not made earlier; and attaching the proposed amended complaint and a supporting declaration.Further, Defendants will not be prejudiced, as a trial date has not yet been set. Defendants will have ample time to object to the amended complaint and conduct discovery.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint is GRANTED.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of ruling.