 Case Number:  24TRCV03031    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Set Aside DefaultMoving Parties: Defendants Juan Francisco Artiga and Ana Julia ArtigaResponding Party: NoneRULINGThe court considered the moving papers. Defendants’ motion to set aside default is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn September 11, 2024, Plaintiff Carlos Roberto Guardado (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Juan Francisco Artiga (“Juan”) and Ana Julia Artiga (“Ana”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Quiet Title; and (4) Imposition of Constructive Trust.On October 30, 2024, default was entered as to both Defendants.On November 15, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff was married to Defendants’ daughter. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) As Plaintiff is undocumented, he asked Defendants to purchase a property on his behalf. (Complaint, ¶ 6.)In August 2009, Defendants agreed to purchase the Subject Property on Plaintiff’s behalf, and Plaintiff would pay the down payment and closing cost. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) The remaining balance would be paid via 30-year mortgage secured by Defendants. (Complaint, ¶ 7.)Plaintiff continued making the mortgage payments until May 2023. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)Plaintiff’s wife filed for divorce in March 2024, and Defendants began eviction proceedings against Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)LEGAL STANDARDCode of Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides in pertinent part:The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment…taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment…was taken.(Code Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (b).) ‘[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court. (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-82.)Relief under Code Civ. Proc. section 473, subd. (b) is mandatory when based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is discretionary. (English, 94 Cal.App.4th at 143.) When relief from default and default judgment is the attorney’s fault, the six-month period starts to run from the date of the entry of the default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 295.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentThe motion is timely, and Defendants’ failure to respond to the complaint was due to attorney mistake.Merits of the MotionDefendants make this motion on the grounds of attorney mistake. Defense counsel declares that Defendants prepared and intended to file a demurrer and motion to strike before default was entered. (Long Decl., ¶ 5.) However, due to an internal communication error, the associate responsible for filing the motions did not file them. (Long Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendants retained their counsel about two weeks before default was entered and were not at fault for failing to file a response. (Long Decl., ¶ 7.)As default judgment has not yet been entered, the motion is timely. Further, the motion is accompanied by defense counsel’s sworn affidavit attesting that the firm’s mistake led to the entry of default. Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. section 437, subd. (b), relief is mandatory when default is entered against a defendant due to an attorney’s mistake.Accordingly, the motion to set aside is GRANTED.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to set aside default is GRANTED.Defendants to give notice of ruling.