 Case Number:  22NWCV01016    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  C KRAMER v. MARTINEZ
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01016
HEARING: 06/20-24
 
#3
 
Defendant DOREEN M. ESPARZA’s Application for Change of Name
and Capacity of Defendant Ricardo Orosco Martinez, Trustee of the Martinez
Family Revocable Living Trust Dated June 18, 2018 is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This partition action concerns real properly commonly known
as 12618 Bailey Street, Whittier, California 90601 (“Subject Property”) In the Complaint
filed on October 14, 2022, Plaintiff Mary Lou Kramer alleges that she and
Defendant Ricardo Orosco Martinez, in their capacities as trustees of their
respective trusts, each own a fifty percent undivided interest in the Subject
Property. (¶7.) Defendant
Marcus Martinez, the son of Defendant Ricardo Martinez, has been occupying the
premises exclusively for at least the past twenty years, but has paid Plaintiff
substantially less than one-half of the fair market rental value of the Subject
Property. (¶8.)
 
On January 7, 2024, Defendant Ricardo Orosco Martinez
(“Decedent”) passed way. 
 
Doreen M. Esparza, the daughter of the Decedent, and Successor
Trustee to the Martinez Family Revocable Living Trust Dated June 18, 2018, filed
the instant application to substitute in as successor in interest to Decedent. 
 
“A pending action or proceeding
does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action survives.” (CCP
§377.21.) A cause of action against a decedent that survives may be asserted
against the decedent’s personal representative or, to the extent provided by
statute, against the decedent’s successor in interest. (CCP §377.40). After a
defendant dies, the court shall allow the pending action to continue upon
motion. (CCP §377.41.) 
 
CCP §377.41 states: “On motion,
the Court shall allow a pending action or proceeding against the decedent that
does not abate to be continued against the decedent’s personal representative
or, to the extent provided by statute, against the decedent’s successor in
interest, except that the court may not permit an action or proceeding to be
continued against the personal representative unless proof of compliance with
part 4… of Division 7 of the Probate Code governing creditor claims is first
made.” 
 
“The person who seeks to commence
an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the
decedent’s successor in interest… shall execute and file an affidavit or a
declaration under penalty of perjury… stating all of the following: (1) The
decedent’s name. (2) The date and place of the decedent’s death. (3) ‘No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.’ (4) If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final
order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor in interest. (5) Either of the following… (A) ‘The affiant or
declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest.. and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.’ (B) “The affiant or declarant
is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest… with
respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.’ (6) ‘No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.’ (7) ‘The
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury… that the
foregoing is true and correct.’”(CCP §377.32.) 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Declaration of Doreen M. Esparza. The Motion is DENIED without prejudice for
failure to comply with the mandatory terms of CCP §377.32. Specifically, Ms.
Esparza does not state that no proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the Decedent’s estate, and that no other person has a
superior right to be substituted for the Decedent in the pending action or
proceeding. 