 Case Number:  21STCV15862    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  27  Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/16/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      21STCV15862 MERCURY INSURANCE COMPANY vs
DOESMA MONSSERRAT VALLECILLO
Motion Name:           HEARING ON CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION
Moving Party:           Defendant DOESMA MONSSERRAT VALLECILLO
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     HEARING ON CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION IS CONTINUED.
 
Legal Standard 
 
At a hearing on a claim of exemption, “the
[judgment debtor] has the burden of proof” in demonstrating that the property
claimed exempt is indeed exempt. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520, subd. (b),
703.580, subds. (b), (c).) In meeting this burden, the judgment debtor must
establish the right by evidence or facts; an affidavit which merely follows the
language of the statute and states nothing more than conclusions of law is
insufficient.¿(Le Font v.¿Rankin¿(1959)¿167¿Cal.App.2d 433, 435.¿Generally,
"common necessaries of life" means essentials commonly required by
all persons for the sustenance of life, whatever their employment status and
includes medical care. (J. J. MacIntyre Co. v. Duren (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d Supp. 16, 18-19).
 
“Within 10 days
after service of the notice of claim of exemption, a judgment creditor who
opposes the claim of exemption shall file with the court a notice of opposition
to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order determining the
claim of exemption and shall file with the levying officer a copy of the notice
of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion. Upon the filing of the copies
of the notice of opposition and notice of motion, the levying officer shall
promptly file the claim of exemption with the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
703.550.)
 
Analysis
 
Judgment Debtor Doesma Monsserrat Vallecillo
seeks to claim exemptions from his wage garnishment.
The Court lacks complete information to rule
on this hearing because the claim of exemption is missing. The Court cannot
rely solely on the Judgment Creditor’s opposition. The levying officer was
required to file the claim of exemption pursuant to statute but failed to do
so. Without the actual claim, the Court cannot assess the claim. The Judgment
Creditor notes certain discrepancies in the Debtor’s claims for exemptions but
has not provided any documentation for the Court to assess this discrepancy. Furthermore,
the Judgment Creditor filed only a notice of hearing and notice of opposition,
without any supporting motion. Judgment Creditor fails to provide any evidence
that Judgment Debtor would be able to satisfy the judgment without impacting
monthly expenses.
Moreover, on April 15, 2024, Judgment Debtor
received a Stay of Proceedings based on a bankruptcy filing.  
 
The Court continues the hearing to June 15, 2024,
at 1:30 p.m. for a status report re bankruptcy, and for the aforementioned
issues related to the Claim to be addressed. 
 
Judgment Creditor is ordered to give notice.
  
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.