 Case Number:  21STCV14872    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/16/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      21STCV14872 DESIDERIO SANDOVAL, et al. vs
MARIA GUERRERO
Motion Name:           MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE AND FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant Maria Guerrero
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART
                                
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED
 
Background
On April 20, 2021,
Plaintiffs initiated this motor accident lawsuit. On November 3, 2021, they
served their first set of Requests for Production on Defendant. On March 8,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel initial responses to these requests.
On September 15, 2023, Defendant provided responses to the discovery at issue
without any objections, rendering Plaintiffs' motion to compel moot. On
December 19, 2023, Defendant sought relief from waiver of objections, but the
Court denied the motion. Defendant’s document production contained several
redactions. For example, a significant portion of the ISO report was redacted.
Plaintiffs now move the Court to compel Defendant to provide the unredacted
document production and all related documents pertinent to the claim.
Legal
Standard 
 
CCP
section 2031.320 states in relevant part:  
 
If
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240 and 2031.280
thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in
accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling compliance. 
 
(CCP
§ 2031.320(a).)  
 
Analysis
 
As
a preliminary matter, a motion for compliance under CCP 2031.320 does not
require the parties to meet and confer or attend an informal discovery
conference.
 
Defendant,
in her responses to Plaintiff's Request for Production, Set One, served on
September 15, 2023, stated that she would provide specific documents listed as
Exhibits A through H in her document production. This includes Plaintiff's ISO
reports and the declaration page of the applicable auto insurance policy.  Defendant raised no objections in her
response to the Request for Production. Moreover, the Court has already denied
Defendant's motion for relief from the waiver of objections. Consequently,
Defendant is precluded from redacting any parts of the responses, regardless of
any objections, including those based on privacy or privilege. Upon reviewing
Defendant's document production, the Court found extensive redactions in the
ISO report and other documents. Defendant is barred from making such
redactions, having already waived all objections. Therefore, Defendant is ORDERED
to produce the unredacted version of Defendant’s document production. 
 
However, a motion for
compliance under CCP 2031.320 only compels a party to comply with its stated
commitments of document production. Thus, Plaintiff’s requests for all of
Defendant’s documents related to the claim, including attorney files, billing
records, insurance correspondence, status reports, and internal communications,
can only be compelled if Defendant agreed to produce them in her responses.
Upon examining Defendant's responses, the Court finds that Defendant was very
specific about the documents she would produce, and it did not include attorney
files, billing records, insurance correspondence, status reports, or internal
communications. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for the production of all of
Defendant’s documents relating to the claim is DENIED.
 
The court finds that
both Parties acted with substantial justification and therefore sanctions are
DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 