 Case Number:  22STCV16093    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed: 5/16/22
Trial Date: 5/14/24
Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           4/16/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV16093 MARY ALICE RODRIGUEZ vs YUNG HO
KIM, et al.
Motion:                    MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Moving Party:           Defendant Uni Trans, LLC
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient
¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard
 
Continuances of trials are disfavored, but each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to
the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
(1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance
of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of
the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  
 
Factual Background and Analysis
On May 16, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present auto accident lawsuit alleging that she was injured
by a vehicle operated by Defendant Yung Ho Kim, while he was purportedly in the
course and scope of his employment with Defendant Uni Trans, LLC. On July 11,
2022, Defendant Yung Ho Kim filed his answer. Defendant Uni Trans, LLC, was
only recently served and filed its answer on March 18, 2024. The current trial
date is set for May 14, 2024. Defendant Uni Trans, LLC now moves the Court to
continue the trial date for 10 months.
 
Given that Defendant
Uni Trans, LLC's answer was only recently filed, its request for additional
time to conduct discovery is reasonable. All parties have stipulated to the
extension, with no opposition filed citing prejudice. Considering the age of
the case, the absence of multiple prior continuances, the parties' stipulation,
and the need for further discovery, the Court grants Defendant's motion to
continue trial.
The new Trial Date is set for March __, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The
Final Status Conference is continued to March __, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.
All other case-related deadlines will follow the new trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.