  Case Number:  23STCV00446    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (RDM)             Defendant  RDM Industrial Products, Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment of Plaintiff  Penelope Baker’s claims that she was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s  products. A defendant seeking summary judgment  must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .  . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that  requires the process of trial.”  (Guz  v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an  element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed  evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)   “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively  negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –  as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the  effect that he has discovered nothing.”   (Id. at p. 855.)  A  plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any  exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to  the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.  (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)   The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working  with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the  burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143  Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs  respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with  boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry  lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost  certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and  properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)              Defendant  argues Plaintiff has no evidence that she was exposed to asbestos from a  product from Defendant.  (Motion at p.  2.)  In response to an interrogatory asking  for all facts supporting the contention that Plaintiff was exposed to asbestos  from Defendant’s products, Plaintiff responded that she used  asbestos-containing laboratory equipment made and supplied by Defendant.  (Ex. 4 at pp. 2, 4.)  However, the response did not cite any  specific evidence to support that assertion.   In her deposition, Plaintiff was asked if she had heard of a company  called RDM Industrial Products.  She  responded, “It sounds vaguely familiar.   Maybe – maybe something I heard of back sometime in the 1980s somewhere.  I can’t pinpoint it otherwise.”  (Ex. 11 at p. 583.)  She testified that she could not recall if she  has any information that she “ever worked with or around any products  manufactured or supplied by RDM Industrial Products.”  (Ibid.)  She did not have information about any  witnesses she could talk to or documents she could look at that might have more  information about RDM Industrial Products.   (Id. at p. 584.)  Other  than vaguely remembering the name, she had no specifics about RDM Industrial  Products, and she could not offer any testimony about working with or around  any RDM Industrial product.  (Id.  at p. 585.)  She did not recall working  with a specific RDM product and did not know whether RDM Industrial Products  sold or provided products containing asbestos.   (Id. at p. 586.)  The next  day of her deposition, she was again asked if she could identify any RDM  product she worked with, and she said no.   (Ex. 12 at p. 886.)  She was asked  specifically about whether she remembered working with any RDM fume hood in the  1970s, ‘80s, or ‘90s, and she said no.  (Id.  at p. 887.)               Defendant  has shown that Plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence  that she used or worked around Defendant’s products that contained asbestos,  thus shifting the burden.             In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that her interrogatory response that she used  asbestos-containing equipment from Defendant is sufficient evidence to deny  summary judgment.  (Opposition at p. 2.)  However, a party cannot use its own  interrogatory responses as evidence.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.410.)               Plaintiff  also argues that she asked at her deposition “what RD stands for,” and the  questioning attorney refused to say.   (Opposition at p. 2.)  That does  not create a disputed issue.  Plaintiff  does not show that if someone had told her “what RD stands for,” she would have  remembered using equipment from RDM Industrial Products.  Indeed, Plaintiff’s counsel could have told Plaintiff  “what RD stands for” (assuming it actually stands for something), and if that  refreshed Plaintiff’s memory, she could have submitted a declaration with her  opposition to this motion explaining her refreshed memory.  But that did not happen.  Because Plaintiff filed no evidence on the  question whether she used or worked around Defendant’s products, Plaintiff did  not show a disputed issue.             The  motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.   Defendant is to file a proposed judgment within five days.             The  moving party is to give notice.[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (THOMAS)

            Defendant
Thomas Scientific, Inc. filed a motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff
Penelope Baker’s third and fourth causes of action and request for punitive
damages.

A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 

A.        Objections

The court did not rely on most of
the evidence submitted by the parties and therefore does not rule on the
objections as to that evidence.

Defendant’s Objection Nos. 146, 147,
148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 156, 158, 159, 170-173, 181, 182:  Denied.

            B.        Third Cause of Action – False
Representation Under Section 402-B

The third cause of action
is for false
representation under Restatement of Torts Section 402-B.  Section 402-B establishes “liability for
injuries caused by justifiable reliance on false advertising.”  (Westlye v. Look Sports, Inc. (1993)
17 Cal.App.4th 1715, 1750.)  Under this
section “ ‘[o]ne engaged in the business of selling chattels who, by
advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes to the public a misrepresentation of a
material fact concerning the character or quality of a chattel sold by him is
subject to liability for physical harm to a consumer of the chattel caused by
justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation, even though [¶] (a) it is not
made fraudulently or negligently, and [¶] (b) the consumer has not bought the
chattel from or entered into any contractual relation with the seller.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 1750-1751.) 
“The rule ‘is one of strict liability for physical harm to the consumer,
resulting from a misrepresentation of the character or quality of the chattel
sold, even though the misrepresentation is an innocent one, and not made
fraudulently or negligently.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Hauter v.
Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 114.)  

The complaint alleges in
very vague terms that Defendant represented to members of the general public,
including Plaintiff, that its asbestos-containing product were of merchantable
quality and safe for use.  (Complaint, ¶
36.)  The complaint gives no details
about those representations.  Defendant
argues Plaintiff has no evidence of any such representation.  (Motion at p. 6.)

In response to an
interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the causes of action against
Defendant, Plaintiff responded she used equipment – in particular asbestos pads
and boards, tongs, rings, and asbestos insulated table-top incinerators – from
Defendant, which created dust that Plaintiff breathed; Defendant knew about the
risk of its products; and Defendant failed to adequately warn of the risks and
provide proper precautionary instructions. 
(Ex. B at p. 2-14, 16-17.)  The
response does not identify any misrepresentation to the public and Plaintiff,
any documents with misrepresentations, or any specific witness with knowledge
of misrepresentations.  Likewise, in
response to requests asking for all documents supporting this cause of action,
Plaintiff did not identify any specific public misrepresentation.  (Ex. C at pp. 2-5, 15.)  In addition, Plaintiff testified she had no
communications with Defendant. 
(Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 8.) 
These factually-devoid responses shift the burden.

In opposition, Plaintiff cites
a statement in Defendant’s catalogs that Defendant’s R&D department and
supplying manufacturers worked together in “testing their products, providing
detailed evaluations, and making recommendations for change.”  (Opposition at p. 4; Ex. 8 at p. 6.)  Plaintiff contends Defendant did not test its
asbestos-containing products for safety. 
(Ibid.)  

In reply, Defendant argues
there is no evidence it actually knew about the potential hazards or that it
intentionally concealed the information. 
(Reply at p. 3.)  However, section
402-B does not require actual knowledge or intentional concealment.  A misrepresentation can be the basis for a
402-B claim “even though the misrepresentation is an innocent one, and not made
fraudulently or negligently.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Hauter, supra, 14
Cal.3d at p. 114.)  

Defendant also argues
that no law requires it to test or inspect the products it sells.  (Reply at p. 4.)  Again, section 402-B does not require a
violation of a law.  Even if no law
required Defendant to inspect or test its products, once Defendant stated in
its catalogs that it “had a long standing program of working closely with
suppling manufacturers in their new product development projects,” including
“testing their products, providing detailed evaluations, making recommendations
for changes,” Defendant became potentially liable under section 402-B if that
statement was not true.

Plaintiff showed the
existence of disputed issues based on public statements Defendant made in its
catalogs.  The motion is denied.

            B.        Fourth Cause of Action – Intentional
Tort

Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the fourth
cause of action for intentional tort. 
This cause of action alleges in very vague terms that Defendant violated
sections 1708 through 1710 of the Civil Code by not including warning labels,
suppressing the contents of the Lanza Report, suppressing information from the
Asbestos Textile Institute Industrial Hygiene Foundation and other industry
organizations, not giving adequate information to Plaintiff’s doctors, and
failing to file a First Report of Occupational Injury or Illness.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 43-56.)  (Some of those sections are irrelevant, such
as sections 1708.5 through 1708.9, which address sexual battery, stalking,
domestic violence, invasion of privacy, sexting, and entering schools.  Plaintiff has no basis for alleging Defendant
violated those sections in this asbestos case.)

“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and “must
necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant;
it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them can
satisfy the Bigler requirement.  (Bader
v. Johnson & Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132.)  

            Defendant
argues Plaintiff had no communications with Defendant.  (Motion at pp. 6-7; UMF 8.)  However, Plaintiff testified she was
responsible for ordering lab equipment, and she personally ordered from
asbestos gloves and mittens from Defendant at least once a week.  (See, e.g., Ex. 2 at pp. 242, 244, 245.)  This is a direct, transactional relationship.

            Defendant
also argues Plaintiffs have no evidence Defendant intended to misrepresent
anything to her.  (Motion at pp. 3, 7.)  Defendant cites Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony that she has no information about whether Defendant intended to harm
or defraud her or misrepresented anything to her.  (Motion at p. 3.)  However, Plaintiff is unlikely to know about
Defendant’s intent, and Defendant did not show Plaintiff cannot obtain evidence
of Defendant’s intent from Defendant.  

            Assuming
Defendant shifted the burden, Plaintiff presented evidence that Defendant knew
about the hazards of asbestos by the 1960s because it sold respirators “for
protection against air-born particulate matter,” such as asbestos.  (Ex. 9 at p. 824.)  Yet, Defendant did not include warnings to
its customers.  (Opposition at p. 12; see
attached catalog excerpts.)  This is
sufficient to establish disputed issues about what Defendant knew about the
dangers of exposure to asbestos from the products it sold and the lack of
warnings.  

            The
motion is denied.

            C.        Punitive Damages

            Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of the punitive damages claim. 
(Motion at p. 7.)  When the motion
targets a request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at
play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher
evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24
Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary
judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive damages is
proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be
clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ” ’.  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 1159.)

For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decisionmaking that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1091.)

“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger to users, and
did not warn them.  (Pfeifer v. John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)   

            Defendant
argues there is no evidence Defendant knew of the potential hazards of its
equipment during the period Plaintiff was using the equipment.  (Motion at pp. 7-8.)  In support of this contention, Defendant
cites Plaintiff’s responses to special interrogatories asking for all facts
supporting the request for punitive damages. 
(UMF 4; Ex. B at p. 18.)  Plaintiff
responded that Defendant was a member of various groups, including one that
took a position on OSHA asbestos regulations, and therefore knew about the
dangers of exposure to asbestos.  Yet
Defendant did not warn its customers.  (Ex.
B at pp. 18-24.)

            This is
not a factually devoid response.  This is
not a case where the alleged asbestos was not intentionally added to the product
(such as in a talc case) or was enclosed within a product (like with brakes).  The entire selling point of the products at
issue here was that they were made from asbestos.  The catalogs showed they were sold as
asbestos products with the main advertised ingredient being asbestos.  There is evidence that definitely by the
1980s, the scientific community, of which Defendant was a part, knew about the
dangers of asbestos fibers, and that Defendant did not issue warnings to customers.  The motion is denied. 

            The
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.

            The
moving party is to give notice.

 

 

 