 Case Number:  20STCV43588    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Rivera v. Solares
20STCV43588
Defendants’ Motion to Reopen Discovery
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is denied.
BACKGROUND
On
November 13, 2020, Carlos Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Menahem Roberto Solares, Venco Power Sweeping, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 25 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence
causes of action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on June 16,
2020. 
On
filing, the case was assigned a trial date of May 13, 2022.
Defendants
filed an answer on January 20, 2021.
In April
2022, the Court continued the trial to March 21, 2023, on the stipulation of
the parties.
In
February 2023, the Court continued the trial to October 6, 2023, on the
stipulation of the parties.
In July
2023, the Court continued the trial to February 14, 2024, on Defendants’
motion.
In January
2024, after rejecting a stipulation of the parties, the Court continued the
trial to June 14, 2024, on Plaintiff’s ex parte application.  All discovery deadlines were reset based on
the new trial date.
In April
2024, Defendants filed, and then withdrew, a motion to continue trial.
On May
6, 2024, the Court continued the trial to October 18, 2024, on Plaintiff’s ex
parte application.  The Court reset the
expert discovery deadlines but did not extend fact discovery deadlines.  As a result, fact discovery closed on or
about May 15, 2024.  
On June
11, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to reopen fact discovery.  The motion was set for hearing on July 23,
but in the aftermath of a cyber attack on the Los Angeles County Superior
Court, the hearing was continued to August 14. 
On August 14, 2024, the Court denied the motion, without prejudice, on
procedural grounds.
On August
28, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to reopen fact discovery. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on September 11, and Defendants filed reply on September 18.
 (Defendants filed an ex parte
application to advance the hearing date on this motion, but moving parties did
not appear at the hearing on September 9, and the ex parte application was
placed off calendar.)  
Trial is
currently scheduled for October 18, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete
discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer
to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has
been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ 
“A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 2016.040.)¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿  
DISCUSSION
As a threshold matter, the
Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the statutory requirement of filing
a declaration with the moving papers showing a good faith attempt to meet and
confer.  (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).) 
(Haynes Decl., ¶¶ 5, 19 & Exhs. A-D.)  
Turning
to the merits of the motion, Defendants move to reopen discovery, largely
because Plaintiff served amended discovery responses on May 15, 2024, that
disclosed a new witness (who has since been deposed) and included records
showing ongoing medical care as well as past care dating back to 2022.  (Haynes Decl., ¶¶ 10-12, 15.)  Although Plaintiff was deposed in November
2021 and was subject to Defendants’ medical exams in January and February 2022,
Plaintiff continued to be treated thereafter and, among other things, had a
disk replacement procedure (at a cost of approximately $255,000) in July
2023.  (Id., ¶¶ 13-15.)
Against this background,
the Court considers the factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050, subdivision (b).
The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿
Defendants
identify good reasons for the discovery: Plaintiff has continued to receive
treatment for the injuries that he attributes to the accident in the years
since his deposition and defendant’s medical examinations.  (See Haynes Decl., ¶¶ 10-15.)  Plaintiff will, of course, presumably seek to
recover at trial for these treatments.  This
factor weighs in favor of granting Defendants’ motion.
The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
Defendants
do not address this factor – or anything that did or did not occur in discovery
between February 2022 and May 2024 – in their moving papers.  There is no indication in the moving papers,
for example, that Defendants propounded discovery (including, but not limited
to, supplemental discovery requests) in the second half of 2022, at any time in
2023, or in the first four months of 2024, or any indicating that Plaintiff
withheld any information that Plaintiff was obligated to provide to Defendant
under the provisions of the Civil Discovery Act.  (The Civil Discovery Act does not require a
party to update prior discovery responses with new facts or recent developments,
unless another party propounds new or supplemental discovery requests.)  (See Opposition, at p. 6.)  This factor weighs heavily against granting
Defendants’ motion.
Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
Defendants
again do not address this factor in their moving papers.  The discovery that Defendants seek to conduct,
including two new medical examinations and a further deposition of Plaintiff,
will almost certainly prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, as
Defendants concede (more or less) in their reply.  (See Opposition at pp. 7-8; Reply at p. 3.)  Defendants argue that they will be prejudiced
in the absence of the relief that they request, but any such prejudice could
have been avoided quite easily by greater diligence in the discovery process during
the approximately 18 months prior to the fact discovery deadline.  This factor weighs against granting
Defendants’ motion.
The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
Trial
was initially scheduled for May 2022. 
Defendants appeared in January 2021. 
The trial date has already been continued five times (twice on
stipulation, once on the request of Defendants, and twice on the requests of
Plaintiff).  It is time for this matter,
arising out of an accident in June 2020, to go to trial.  It is true, of course, that Plaintiff is
continuing to receive treatments, but there is no reason to believe that this
would be any different in three months or six months, or a year from now.  This factor weighs against granting
Defendants’ motion.
Any
other relevant matters 
The Court has considered all of the evidence and argument
submitted by both sides.  
Conclusion
After considering all of the evidence and argument, and all
of the factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050,
subdivision (b), the Court denies the motion. 
Defendants have not made a sufficient showing of good cause to reopen
discovery.
Sanctions
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.  Although the Court does not find good cause to
reopen discovery, the Court finds that Defendants have acted with substantial justification.

CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Menahem Roberto Solares and Venco
Power Sweeping, Inc. to reopen discovery.
Moving Party to provide
notice.