 Case Number:  22SMCV02853    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Hsieh
v. Augustus, et al., Case No. 22SMCV02853
Hearing
date June 5, 2024
Defendants’
Motion to Vacate Judgment
Plaintiff Hsieh
filed this unlawful detainer action against defendants. On July 28, 2023 the
parties entered into a stipulated judgment, wherein Hsieh would dismiss the
action in exchange for defendants’ payment of past rent, holdover damages and
costs. Upon receipt of the settlement, the court dismissed the action and
retained jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §664.6.
Because the
Augustuses failed to abide by the terms of this settlement, Hsieh moved to
enforce the settlement, which the court granted on August 25, 2023. Judgement
was entered on the same day. Defendants move to vacate the judgment. 
Defendants argue the judgment was obtained through extrinsic
fraud or mistake and based on Hsieh’s attorney’s purported misconduct. They
assert ownership of the property was not properly disclosed because, based on
public records, a limited liability company holds legal title to the subject
property. Id.; Augustus Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1. Second, they assert
investigations by the Los Angeles City Health Department and County of Los
Angeles Building and Safety were not disclosed. Third, they contend Hseih’s
attorney made false statements to the court and concealed facts from the
Augustuses. Augustuses Decl. ¶ 6.
 
“Extrinsic fraud
usually arises when a party is denied a fair adversary hearing because he has
been ‘deliberately kept in ignorance of the action or proceeding, or in some
other way fraudulently prevented from presenting his claim or defense.’ ” In
contrast, the term “extrinsic mistake” is “broadly applied when circumstances
extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits.
[Citations.] ‘Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ... a
mistake led a court to do what it never intended....’ ” ”   Bae
v. T.D. Service Co. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 89, 97-98 (citations omitted).
 
Defendants fail to
show evidence of extrinsic fraud or mistake. First, they were not deliberately
kept ignorant of the proceedings or prevented from presenting claims or defenses
because they were permitted to conduct discovery. They would have been able to
discover facts relating to any investigation concerning the property. Second,
the issue of ownership was known prior to the settlement, and Hsieh amended the
complaint, stating the trust as the owner. Third, the moving papers fail to
articulate how Hsieh’s attorney is alleged to have committed a fraud upon the
court. The conclusory statements do not warrant the relief requested. DENIED.