  Case Number:  23GDCV00982    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  E c
Case No:                     23GDCV00982                                                                      
Trial Date:                   None 
Case Name:     Hrachuchi
Khojoyan v. Jewel City Inn, et al.
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING, ISSUE, EVIDENTIARY, EQUITABLE
AND/OR MONETARY SANCTIONS OF $3,210 AGAINST DEFENDANTS JEWEL CITY INN, ET AL.
 
Moving
Party:                         Plaintiff
Hrachuhi Khojoyan 
Responding
Party:                   Defendants Sai
Krishna Enterprise LLC d/b/a Jewel City Inn, Kalpesh Patel and Falguni Patel
 
Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):   ok 
Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)):    ok 
16/+5 day lapse (CCP § 1005):  ok  
 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
 
            In response
to Defendants’ destruction of the only video recording of Plaintiff’s accident,
Plaintiff asks that the Court impose terminating, evidentiary, equitable, issue
and monetary sanctions as follows:
 
(1) striking the answer of Defendants Sai Krishna
Enterprise, LLC d/b/a Jewel City Inn, Sai Krishna Enterprise LLC, Kalpesh Patel
and Falguni Patel and entering their defaults (terminating sanctions);
(2) deeming all liability and causation issues determined in
favor of plaintiff against the Defendants (issue sanctions); 
(3) for an order shifting the burden of proof to Defendants
and creating a presumption of Defendants’ negligence and wrongdoing and
causation, which must be overcome by clear and convincing evidence (evidence
sanction);
(4) for an order precluding Defendants from contesting
liability by way of the defenses of comparative fault or assumption of risk (equitable
sanction); 
(5) for an order turning over all video footage and photos
retained for all trip and fall accidents at Said Krishna Enterprise, LLC d/b/a
Jewel City Inn, Sai Krishna Enterprise LLC for ten years prior to the incident
to establish the frequency with such videos and photos were retained (equitable
sanctions);
(6) for monetary sanctions against Defendants and their
attorney of record in the amount of $4,800 plus filing fees (monetary
sanctions).  [The Court notes that,
confusingly, in the caption of the motion, Plaintiff apparently seeks monetary
sanctions of $3,210. Later in the Motion, Plaintiff states that she is seeking $3,210
in monetary sanctions.]
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
            Plaintiff
allegedly tripped and fell while on Defendants’ property, a Jewel City Inn
motel.  On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint against Defendants Jewel City Inn, Sai Krishna Enterprises LLC,
Kalpesh Patel and Falguni Patel alleging (1) premises liability and (2) general
negligence.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion is DENIED. Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions is also DENIED.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Legal Standard
            
            “To the
extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or
any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the
following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process:…(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering that
designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with
the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses. 
(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence….”  (CCP
§2023.030.)
 
            “Misuses of
the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:…(d)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery….(g) Disobeying
a court order to provide discovery…(i) Failing to confer in person, by
telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and
good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if
the section governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a
declaration stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has
been made.”  (CCP § 2023.020.)
 
Terminating sanctions should not be
imposed lightly and a graduated imposition of
sanctions should be used if possible.  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (decision to impose terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly
but such sanctions are justified in cases of repeated
discovery abuse and evidence that lesser
sanctions will be ineffectual); Thomas v. Luong
(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 76, 81–82; see also
Morgan v. Ransom (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 664, 669
(incarcerated, indigent, pro per plaintiff's
delay in serving responses insufficient to justify
imposition of terminating sanctions where no
prejudice demonstrated).) 
Moreover, discovery sanctions are not intended to punish but to
accomplish discovery. 
(Newland v. Supr. Ct. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613.)  
 
            “The
discovery statutes…evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination.  Although in extreme cases a
court has the authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure, a
terminating sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has
attempted less severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the
record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.”  (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)
 
            Where a
party repeatedly violates discovery orders, including the parties’ discovery
stipulations, a court is “not required to allow this pattern of abuse to
continue ad infinitum.”  (Mileikowsky,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at 280.) 
Thus, a court does not abuse its discretion in ordering terminating
sanctions  against a party who has
repeatedly refused to answer discovery requests despite numerous extensions,
court orders requiring discovery responses, including stipulations, and
imposition of monetary sanctions.  (Id.)  Terminating sanctions under these
circumstances are proper even if the responding party “only” because of “the
threat of terminating sanctions.”  (Id.)

 
            In Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, the Supreme Court
declined to recognize a separate tort cause of action for intentional
spoliation of evidence.  Acknowledging
that “[t]he intentional destruction of evidence is a grave affront to the cause
of justice and deserves our unqualified condemnation,” the Court held it was
“preferable to rely on existing nontort remedies rather than creating a tort
remedy.” (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18
Cal.4th 1, 4.)  In particular, the Court
explained that Evidence Code section 413 and standard civil jury instructions
authorized the finder of fact to consider willful suppression of evidence when
evaluating the inferences to be drawn from the evidence presented (Id.
at 12) and “potent” sanctions, including issue sanctions, evidence sanctions
and terminating sanctions, are available under the discovery statutes for
misuse of the discovery process. (Id.) The Court observed, “Destroying
evidence in response to a discovery request after litigation has commenced
would surely be a misuse of discovery within the meaning of [Code of Civil
Procedure former] section 2023, as would such destruction in anticipation of a
discovery request.” (Id.)
 
//
 
Discussion
 
            Parties’
Positions
 
            Plaintiff
seeks terminating, issue, evidentiary, equitable and monetary sanctions against
Defendants for their failure to preserve the security camera footage of
Plaintiff’s accident. On April 25, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendants with a
preservation letter specifically requesting that any and all videos,
surveillance footage and photographs be preserved.  In response to discovery requests, Defendants
indicated the cameras were not recording but after investigation, Plaintiff
discovered the relevant footage had been recorded over.  Plaintiff argues this is intentional
spoliation of evidence. 
 
            Defendants
dispute that the footage was deliberately deleted.  Defendants argue that at most, there was an
omission on the part of Defendants.  Defendants
claim they are non-English speaking immigrants who did not know how the cameras
worked.  Defendants argue they did not
deliberately delete or knowingly record over the relevant footage.  
 
            Defendants
argue the alleged inadvertent destruction occurred before this action was
filed.  Defendants argue the Court cannot
impose discovery sanctions under these circumstances.  Defendants argue the Court did not have
jurisdiction over Defendants at the time the footage was allegedly overwritten,
nor had a case been filed.  Defendants
argue they have not disobeyed any court order, nor does their failure to
maintain the footage prior to this litigation qualify as discovery abuse.  
 
            Defendants
argue the Legislature provides a remedy for spoliation of evidence in Evidence
Code § 413.  Defendants argue the jury
must determine if there has been willful spoliation and if so, what inferences
to draw therefrom and whether they should decide the destroyed evidence would
have been unfavorable to that party.  
 
            Defendants
argue the court does not have inherent power to impose monetary sanctions or
other discovery sanctions, such as terminating sanctions.  Defendants argue those limited instances
involve deliberate conduct, the absence of lesser alternatives, a client who is
at fault and/or the court issues an order that the client disobeys.  Defendants argue none of those facts exist
here.  Defendants ask the Court to impose
sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $26,335.
 
            In reply,
Plaintiff disputes that the Patels do not speak English or are
unsophisticated.  Plaintiff argues counsel
spoke with Kalpesh Patel without incident in English. Plaintiff argues Kalpesh
also falsely indicated that there were no cameras on the premises and then,
when counsel pointed to the cameras, he indicated they were not working.  Plaintiff also objects to the declaration of
Defendants’ expert.  Plaintiff argues the
expert’s opinion that the videos had not been deliberately tampered with is
inadmissible for lack of foundation.  Plaintiff
argues the recordings could not overwrite themselves.  Plaintiff argues Defendants’ request for
sanctions is outrageously high.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s
motion, confusingly, refers to an incident at Target. (Mot. at 1 [“Because
Target destroyed the videotape of the plaintiff in the store which its own Team
members watched, were told to save, and which Target knew vis [sic] receipt of spoliation
letters from plaintiff’s counsel was crucial evidence to be preserved. The
failure by Target to take any pictures of the scene (which usually happens) has
compounded the prejudice here creating a situation where the 84-year-old plaintiff
must now recall years after a traumatic, life-changing event just how it
happened.”].) The Court assumes that this is language about an incident of
Target was simply inadvertently left over by Plaintiff’s counsel from a
cut-and-paste of text from a different motion in a separate case.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied
 
            Plaintiff
fails to demonstrate that Defendants conduct rose to the level of discovery
abuse.  Based on Plaintiff’s expert
report, the relevant footage was not intentionally destroyed but was
overwritten due to the continuous recording option set on the DVR.  “[A]t the time of inspection, footage
recorded earlier than December 11, 2023 had been overwritten on the hard drive
due to various factors, most importantly the continuous recording option
configured on the DVR, the recording bitrate of each camera and the size of the
installed drive.  No evidence of
physical or electronic tampering were found.”  (Plaintiff’s Mot., Ex. 5, emphasis added.)
 
            Plaintiff
also fails to establish that Defendants violated a court order by failing to
preserve the evidence. Plaintiff fails to establish that Defendants responded
to an RFP by destroying or allowing the footage to be deleted.  Plaintiff fails to cite to any portion of the
Discovery Act that provides a mechanism for preservation of evidence, much less
prelitigation preservation of evidence, nor does it appear that the discovery
sanctions were intended to aid in the preservation of evidence.  (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1419-1420 [injunction requiring
employees to preserve electronic evidence properly issued; Discovery Act did
not provide plaintiff with adequate remedy at law for protecting electronic
evidence from destruction].)  At best,
Plaintiff establishes that Defendants failed to preserve the relevant footage
in response to a pre-litigation letter requesting preservation of that
evidence.  
 
            The remedy
for Defendants’ potential intentional destruction of evidence prior to this
litigation appears to be found in CACI 204 and Evidentiary Code § 413.  CACI 204 provides, “You may consider whether
one party intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence. If you decide that a
party did so, you may decide that the evidence would have been unfavorable to
that party.”  Evidence Code § 413
provides, “In determining what inferences to draw from the evidence or facts in
the case against a party, the trier of fact may consider, among other things,
the party's failure to explain or to deny by his testimony such evidence or
facts in the case against him, or his willful suppression of evidence relating
thereto, if such be the case.”  In light
of the destruction of the relevant video footage, Plaintiff is entitled to
conduct discovery into whether the recording was intentionally destroyed for
purposes of Evidentiary Code § 413 and CACI 204.  
 
            As it
stands, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions appears similar to the one made in New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Supt. Ct. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1427-1428:  “We conclude that the discovery statutes
provide no basis for the sanctions imposed. Neither the failure to produce
video recordings in response to the first set of inspection demands nor the
destruction of the recordings in these circumstances justifies an evidence or
issue sanction absent a failure to obey an order compelling discovery.”  
 
As appears to be the case here, the
evidence in New Albertsons indicated the relevant video recordings were
recorded over automatically in the ordinary course of business, that there was
no court order and that the recordings were not destroyed in response to
RFPs.  (Id.)
 
            CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED. 

 
            Defendants
request sanctions in the amount of $26,335. 
The amount of sanctions requested appears unjustified.  Defendants’ request is therefore DENIED.
 
            
 
 