Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: BC 720 854 and 22 STCV 00220
Plaintiff's Name: June Again, Inc., et al. and Nestor, et al.
Defendant's Name: BMW of North America LLC, et al. and FCA US LLC, et al.
People-Names: Khanian, Chun, Arce, Hermosillo, Sanchez, Rincon, Norato, Morua, Valencia, and Cruz
Company-Names: BMW of North America LLC, FCA US LLC, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., Ford Motor Company, Nissan North America, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles Superior Court
Dates: June, 2006, 2021
Events: Sale of tax shelter, Lemon law cases
Money: Unspecified
Intentions: To establish an equitable estoppel
Facts: Complex agreements, use of terms, agency relationships
Disputes: Estoppel, unconscionability, constitutional right to jury trial
Acts: Signing of agreements, sale of tax shelter
Agreements: Standard form agreements
Laws: California Code, Ashou v. Liberty Mutual Fire Ins. Co.
Citations: Ashou v. Liberty Mutual Fire Ins. Co. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 748, 766–767, Hawkins v. KPMG LLP (N.D. Cal. 2006) 423 F.Supp.2d 1038, 1051, Pillar Project AG v. Payward Ventures, Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671, 680-681
Statutes: Unspecified
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements:
* Four elements must be proved to establish an equitable estoppel.
* The court is reluctant to find equitable estoppel in contract cases where the result would be the loss of a party's constitutional right to a jury trial.
* Recent appellate authority has expressed a reluctance to find equitable estoppel in contract cases where the result would be the loss of a party's constitutional right to a jury trial.
* It is facially absurd to suppose that a local dealer is the principal of a global manufacturer.
* Because Defendant Mercedes is not a party to the agreement and therefore is not entitled to enforce it at all, this analysis does not and need not consider Plaintiff's argument that the Agreement is unconscionable.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has reviewed the information presented and is considering the issue of equitable estoppel in the context of a contract dispute. The judge notes that four elements must be proved to establish equitable estoppel: the party to be estopped must know the facts, intend that their conduct be acted upon, the party asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true state of facts, and the party asserting the estoppel must rely on the conduct to their injury.

The judge also notes that recent appellate authority has expressed a reluctance to find equitable estoppel in contract cases where the result would be the loss of a party's constitutional right to a jury trial. The judge is hesitant to find equitable estoppel in this case, given the complexity of the agreements and the potential consequences of doing so.

The judge also addresses the issue of agency relationships between the auto manufacturers and dealers, noting that it is facially absurd to suppose that a local dealer is the principal of a global manufacturer. The judge is not considering the argument that the agreement is unconscionable, as Defendant Mercedes is not a party to the agreement and therefore is not entitled to enforce it at all.

Overall, the judge is tentatively ruling that the agreement is not unconscionable and that equitable estoppel is not applicable in this case.