 Case Number:  23STCV04361    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
            
Defendant
Anny now moves this court for an order striking the punitive damages
allegations and the prayer for injunctive relief.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is DENIED. Defendant Anny is to file her
Answer within 10 days.
 
Governing Statutes
 
            Civil Code
§ 3294 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) In an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,
the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the
sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
 
(b) An employer shall not be liable
for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
 
(c) As used in this section, the
following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard
of that person's rights.
(3)
“Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.”
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 526 provides in relevant
part:
 
            “(a) An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
(1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually.
(2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action.
(3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.
(4)
When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief.
(5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief.
(6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings.
(7)
Where the obligation arises from a trust.”
 
Discussion
 
Where a plaintiff has properly pled
intentional behavior in a habitability case, punitive damages are available.
See Civil Code § 3294(a) and (c)(1); Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920. The availability of punitive damages in this case is
better left for a summary adjudication motion or a trial.
 
Likewise, the availability of an
injunction in this case cannot be decided at the pleading stage. No injunction
is being ordered at this time, and none will be ordered without the
presentation of evidence. But by the same token, the court will not exclude the
possibility without seeing some evidence and developing a factual record.
 
Conclusion
 
            It is
premature to raise these issues on this motion. The motion is therefore DENIED.
Defendant Anny is to file her Answer within 10 days.
 
 
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED.
 
 
(3)        Normandie
Demurrer
 
            Defendants Normandie
and Jamison, joined by Defendant Vine, now demur, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 430.10(e)-(f),
to the third and sixth causes of action on the grounds that the FAC fails to
state facts sufficient to support those claims and is uncertain. 
 
Decision
 
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend,
for the reasons given in connection with the demurrer above.
 
The
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED, for the reasons given in
connection with the demurrer above.
 
Defendants
to answer within 15 days.
 
(4)       Normanie
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendants Normandie
and Jamison, joined by Defendant Vine now moves this court, per Code of Civil Procedure
§§ 435 and 436, for an order striking the punitive damages allegations
against them. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED. 
 
            Although
Plaintiffs will be required to prove the involvement of an “officer, director,
or managing agent” of the defendant corporations, the court must account for
the fact that their ability to plead such a person’s specific involvement ab
initio is limited. See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 549-550. “When the plaintiff alleges an intentional wrong, a prayer for
exemplary damage may be supported by pleading that the wrong was committed
willfully or with a design to injure.” G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior
Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29. That is what we have here. The availability
of punitive damages in this case is better left for a summary adjudication
motion or a trial.