  Case Number:  18STCV02568    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
Plaintiffs Moy LLC and Kerry now
move the court for an order compelling Defendant Hui to sit for deposition.
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED. Defendant
Hui is to sit for the two remaining sessions of deposition to which he has
already consented. 
 
Discussion
 
            This motion
stems from a meeting that counsel had, in person, in Department 14 on March 20,
2023. The minute order from that date reads in relevant part as follows: 
 
“Counsel met and conferred in the
Jury Room.

Counsel have agreed on all deposition dates.
…
Cut-off dates are not extended to
the new trial date with the exception for the taking of the depositions.”
 
The papers filed by both parties do not contradict the
minute order. They indicate an agreement that Defendant Kin Hui would sit for
five days of deposition, certain other witnesses would also sit for deposition,
and then discovery would be closed as indicated by the minute order. (Motion p.
3:14-17; Opposition p. 6:20-24). The disagreement centers on who is allowed to
do the questioning. 
 
            According
to Defendant Hui, the original estimate was that (a) Moy LLC and Kerry would
get two days, and (b) M2K and Kwan would get two days with (c) an extra day of
fudge room split between them. (Declaration of Philip Y. Kim ¶ 5). Plaintiffs
Moy LLC and Kerry dispute that this time allocation was any part of the deal.
(Declaration of Omar Bengali ¶ 8).
 
            It is
undisputed that Plaintiffs Moy LLC and Kerry were the questioners in the first
three of the five sessions of Defendant Hui’s deposition. At the end of the
third, they indicated an intent to continue their questioning into Defendant
Hui’s fourth session. Defendant Hui objected, on the basis that M2K and Kwan
should get their turn and has since refused to appear if Moy LLC and Kerry do
the questioning. 
 
In so doing, Defendant Hui has
raised an objection which does not belong to him, but to M2K and Kwan. Defendant
Hui agreed to sit for five sessions of deposition. Who asks the questions
should not be material to him. Counsel for M2K and Kwan has agreed to let
Plaintiffs Moy LLC and Kerry continue their questioning, thus waiving any
objection on the basis of time allocation. (Declaration of Omar Bengali
¶ 8; Declaration of Philip Y. Kim ¶ 8). If M2K and Kwan wish to
forego some of their time so that Moy LLC and Kerry can use more, they may do
so. It is Defendant Hui’s obligation to appear as agreed.
 
Finally, Defendant Hui makes an
argument that this whole dispute has become moot because the case is now past
its 5-year date. It is not. The case was filed on October 26, 2018. Its
original 5-year date was October 26, 2023. Under the 6-month extension provided
by California Rules of Court Emergency Rule 10, its 5-year date is now April
26, 2024. Ables v. A. Ghazale Brothers, Inc. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th
823, 827-828 is not to the contrary. In that case, plaintiff tried to use a
tolling statute to justify maintaining a case which was 5 years and 7 months
old, and thus already beyond the time provided by Emergency Rule 10.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant
Kin Hui agreed to sit for 5 days of deposition. He has sat for 3. He remains
obliged to sit for 2 more. After that, pursuant to the court’s Minute Order of
March 20, 2023, his deposition will be closed. How those 2 remaining days are
apportioned between opposing counsel is not Defendant Hui’s concern. Therefore,
the motion is GRANTED. Defendant Hui is to sit for the two remaining sessions
of deposition to which he has already consented.