 Case Number:  22STCV04219    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Pleading 
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
now demurs to the Cross-Complaint, on the grounds that it fails to state causes
of action and is uncertain. 
 
Decision
 
            The demurrer
is SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave to amend.
 
Governing Statute
 
            Civil Code
§ 890 defines rent skimming as follows:
 
“(a)(1) “Rent skimming” means using
revenue received from the rental of a parcel of residential real property at
any time during the first year period after acquiring that property without
first applying the revenue or an equivalent amount to the payments due on all
mortgages and deeds of trust encumbering that property.
(2) For purposes of this section,
“rent skimming” also means receiving revenue from the rental of a parcel of
residential real property where the person receiving that revenue, without the
consent of the owner or owner's agent, asserted possession or ownership of the
residential property, whether under a false claim of title, by trespass, or any
other unauthorized means, rented the property to another, and collected rents
from the other person for the rental of the property. This paragraph does not
apply to any tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or assignee, nor to any
other hirer having a lawful occupancy interest in the residential dwelling.”
 
Civil Code § 891 authorizes
civil actions for rent skimming in the following situations:
 
“(a) A seller of an interest in
residential real property who received a promissory note or other evidence of
indebtedness for all or a portion of its purchase price secured by a lien on
the property may bring an action against any person who has engaged in rent
skimming with respect to that property…
…
(c) A mortgagee or beneficiary
under a deed of trust encumbering residential real property may bring an action
against a person who has engaged in rent skimming with respect to that property
as one of multiple acts of rent skimming, whether or not the person has become
contractually bound by an obligation secured by the mortgage or deed of trust…
 
(d) A tenant of residential real
property may bring an action against a person who has engaged in rent skimming
with respect to that property for the recovery of actual damages, including any
security, as defined in Section 1950.5, and moving expenses if the property is
sold at a foreclosure sale and the tenant was required to move…
 
(e) The rights and remedies
provided in this section are in addition to any other rights and remedies
provided by law.
 
(f) Rent skimming is unlawful, and
any waiver of the provisions of this section are void and unenforceable as
contrary to public policy.”
 
Discussion
 
            This civil
court can only countenance an action for rent skimming within the definition of
Section 890, in the situations authorized by Section 891. Cross-Complainant has
pled that he is an owner of the property, and that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
has allowed Defendant Ferguson (who is not a party to the Cross-Complaint) to
collect rents without Cross-Complainant’s consent. That may meet the definition
of rent skimming set forth in Section 890(a)(2).
 
            However,
Cross-Complainant has not properly pled that he is one of the persons authorized
to bring an action under Section 891. That section allows only the following
persons to file suit: (1) a seller, (2) a mortgagee or beneficiary of a deed of
trust secured by the property, or (3) a tenant, if forced to move out due to
foreclosure. Cross-Complainant is clearly neither a seller nor a tenant. Nor
has he alleged that he is named on any outstanding mortgage or deed of trust
secured by the property. Therefore, he has not placed himself within the
category of persons allowed to file suit.
 
Conclusion
 
            Cross-Complainant
has not properly alleged that he is among the persons authorized to file a
civil suit for rent skimming. This is the first challenge to his pleading, and
he should be given one chance to make the proper allegations if he can.
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave to amend.
 
 