 Case Number:  22STCV38696    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
Defendant Mercedes now moves this
court for an order staying this case and compelling Plaintiffs to arbitrate their
claims, on the basis that the parties have entered into a binding arbitration
agreement.
 
Decision
 
Defendant Mercedes’ Request for Judicial
Notice is DENIED. The court need not take judicial notice of the complaint in
this action to decide the pending motion.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objection
to the Declaration of Ali Ameripour is OVERRULED. See Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215. Plaintiff does not dispute either
the existence or the terms of the agreement.
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 
Discussion
 
On December 3, 2020, Plaintiff
signed a “California Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement” (“Agreement”) which
provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“The following arbitration
provisions significantly affect your rights in any dispute with us. Please read
the following disclosures and the arbitration provision that follows carefully
before you sign the contract.
 
1.     
If either you or we choose, any dispute between you and
us will be decided by arbitration and not in court.
2.     
If such dispute is arbitrated, you and we will give up
the right to a trial by a court or a jury trial.
…
Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, or otherwise (including any dispute over the interpretation,
scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of
any issue, between you and us or any of our employees, agents, successors, or
assigns, which arises out of or relates to a credit application, this lease, or
any resulting transaction or relationship arising out of this lease shall, at
the election of either you or us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by
a neutral binding arbitration and not by a court action…
…
…Any arbitration under this lease
shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.” (Declaration of Ali Ameripour
Exhibit 2) (Emphasis in original).
 
The parties to the Agreement were Plaintiff and a franchise
dealership identified as MB of Los Angeles. The Agreement identifies an anticipated
assignee: Daimler Trust. No defendant in this case was a party to the Agreement.
 
This court has had twelve previous
motions in twelve previous cases raise agreements resembling this one, including
some agreements crafted by different manufacturers – BMW, Ford, Fiat, Honda,
and Nissan.[1] In two
cases,[2]
this court granted the motion to compel because plaintiffs had sued both the
manufacturer and the dealer that was the actual signatory to the contract. In the
other ten,[3] this
court denied the motion to compel because Plaintiffs had not sued the dealer
or any other actual signatory to the contract.
 
In the BMW cases, the contract at
issue had an expansive provision expressly extending the agreement to disputes
between the consumer and third parties, if they were asserted “in connection with”
a claim brought against the dealer. Thus, in the eyes of this court, the
distinguishing factor was whether Plaintiffs had chosen to sue the dealer, the
party who had actually signed the contract. The Honda, Fiat, Ford, and Nissan
cases have been somewhat different, in that none of their Agreements (which
were all identical) contained the extra language included in the BMW contracts.
The Agreement in this case is essentially a carbon copy of the Agreement in the
Honda, Fiat, Ford and Nissan cases.
 
The parties to this Agreement are
Plaintiff and the leasing dealership. The manufacturer is not a party to the
agreement. Defendant Mercedes is not an “employee, agent, successor or assign”
of the dealership. Nor is the leasing dealership party to this case; the Dealer
that Plaintiffs have sued is the one that did the repairs, not the one
that originally delivered the vehicle. The express terms of the provisions
cover disputes between Plaintiff and the leasing dealership: “[a]ny claim or
dispute…between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns.”
Defendant Mercedes is not covered by this Agreement.
 
            The court’s
previous orders in other cases have rested on a particular analysis of two relatively
recent authorities: Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
486 (coming out of the Court of Appeal for the Third District) and Ngo v.
BMW of North America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th
942, 950. 
 
A few days before this motion was
filed, Division 8 of the Court of Appeal for the Second District decided the
consolidated Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
1324, frequently referred to as as “Ochoa” for the name of the plaintiff
in the lead case. Plaintiffs addressed the impact of that case in their opposition.
Defense addressed it in the reply. 
 
Equitable Estoppel
 
In the ordinary case, an equitable
estoppel arises when one party induces another party to do something against
her own interest, such as waiting to file a lawsuit until the statute of
limitations has run. See Hopkins v. Kedzierski (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
736, 756-757.[4] In the
context of arbitration agreements, the doctrine frequently becomes more precise.
In that context, the issue is whether the signatory has relied on contract
terms in suing the non-signatory. JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237. Parties cannot pick and choose
which portions of their contracts they wish to enforce, so if a signatory
relies on a contract term to sue a non-signatory, she cannot protest when the non-signatory
comes back and wishes to enforce the other terms of that same contract (i.e.
arbitration). Id. at 1237-38 (citing cases).
 
In practical terms, the doctrine of
equitable estoppel is usually applied where a signatory has sued both another signatory and certain non-signatories on identical
claims. See e.g. Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
782; Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705. But what happens if the other party to
the contract is not also a party to
the case, and never was? “Equitable estoppel applies only if the plaintiffs'
claims against the nonsignatory are dependent upon, or inextricably bound up
with, the obligations imposed by the contract plaintiff has signed with the signatory
defendant.” JSM Tuscany, supra,
193 Cal.App.4th at 1239.
 
            Defendant Mercedes
argues that a lemon law plaintiff cannot make a lemon law claim without having
entered into a purchase contract. Therefore, it says, lemon law plaintiffs rely
on the terms of those contracts when bringing their claims, and may be
compelled into arbitration. Defendant Mercedes chiefly relies on Felisilda,
supra, to support its position. 
 
            Previously,
this court’s practice was to distinguish Felisilda based on its facts
and procedural posture. However, Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th
at 1333-35 expressly declines to follow Felisilda. Defense argues that the
court should follow Felisilda. It should not. 
 
            In Felisilda,
the plaintiffs bought a Dodge Grand Caravan (a minivan) from a dealership in Elk
Grove. Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at 489. It had
problems, and plaintiffs opted to sue both the dealer and Fiat. Id. The
dealer moved to compel arbitration and the trial court granted the motion,
sending the whole case to arbitration. Id. Afterwards, with the case in
arbitration, plaintiffs dismissed the dealer. Id. The arbitrator ruled
in favor of Fiat, and the trial court confirmed the award. Id. Plaintiffs
appealed, on the ground that the trial court had never had the power to send
their claims against Fiat to arbitration. Id. The Court of Appeal
disagreed, holding that the doctrine of equitable estoppel justified the trial
court’s decision to send both parties to arbitration was justified. Id.
at 495-496.
 
            The factual
and procedural background of Ochoa is much less clear from the text of
the decision. There is no indication that the plaintiffs in Ochoa ever
sued the selling dealerships or that the selling dealerships participated in
the motions, as was the case in Felisilda. Thus, it is not presently
clear that Felisilda and Ochoa present a true split of authority.
What appears from the text in Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th
at 1333-35 is that the Court of Appeal agreed with the analysis undertaken by
this court in its handling of prior cases: (a) that lemon law claims are
statutory creations, not contract causes of action, and (b) that the agreements
contemplate arbitration only where the selling dealership has also been sued.
 
             In Felisilda, when the court made its ruling,
the dealer was still in the case. In fact, it was the dealer who made
the motion to compel, not Fiat. The panel could easily find, as it did, that
the claims against the dealer and the manufacturer were “inextricably bound up
with” one another and it wouldn’t be fair to either party to engage in parallel
proceedings. That is not the case here. The dealer has never been a party to
this action, and there is no prospect that it will be anything more than a
witness. Nor do Plaintiffs’ claims against Mercedes properly arise from any term
of the lease contract with the dealer. They arise from the lemon law statutes.
 
            As other
courts have noted, there is a distinction between a claim that relies on the
mere fact of a purchase, and a claim that relies upon the actual contents of a
contract.[5]
Lemon law claims are statutory creations, not contract causes of action;
Plaintiffs are not suing Defendant because they breached a particular provision
or section of the Agreement. Plaintiffs are suing Defendant because they bought
(as opposed to stealing) a vehicle from a retail dealership (as opposed to a
private third party), and the vehicle doesn’t work. Dagher v. Ford Motor Co.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905, 926. The claim arises out of the act of
purchase, not the signature of any particular form or purchase contract.[6] See
Soto v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2012) 2012 WL 5877476
at *2-3 (“[Plaintiff’s] claims against AHM for defects in his Honda Accord are
not intertwined with the mere fact that [Plaintiff] purchased his vehicle with
an installment sales contract”). Therefore, equitable estoppel does not apply
here.
 
Recent federal authority is in
accord. Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23
F.4th 942, 950 makes the same observation that this court has made
in its prior cases: the “critical” fact is whether the Plaintiff “sued the
dealership in addition to the manufacturer.” Id. at 950. In Ngo,
the Plaintiff had not sued the dealer, so the Ninth Circuit held that arbitration
could not be compelled. Id. 
 
            To the
extent that this court is required by Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior
Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 to make a choice
between Ochoa and Felisilda, Ochoa is the better reasoned
decision. However, as already explained, it is not clear that such a choice is
required. Ochoa simply supports the analysis that this court was already
using to explain Felisilda – if the plaintiffs sue the selling
dealership along with the manufacturer, they can be compelled to arbitration.
If they don’t, they can’t.
 
Third-Party Beneficiary
 
            Defendant Mercedes
contends that it is a third-party beneficiary to the Agreement. It is not. 
 
The Agreement expressly covers
disputes between the buyer and the “employees, agents, successors or assigns”
of the leasing dealer.[7]
Defendant Mercedes makes no attempt to argue that it is any of those things,
and indeed it hardly could be.[8]
Instead, it relies on language in the provision which permits arbitration of
disputes “arising out of” among other things, a “resulting transaction or
relationship” with some third party. But as already explained, this language does
not make beneficiaries out of all subsequent third parties. It merely secures
the dealer’s right to arbitration (so far as is possible) where other
parties are also involved in the dispute. Here, the dealer is not
involved in the dispute. So the provision simply does not apply and Defendant Mercedes
has failed to carry its burden of proving that it is an intended third-party
beneficiary. See Jones v. Jacobsen (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1,
15.[9]
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant Mercedes
is not a signatory to the Agreement it seeks to enforce, though Plaintiff is. The
doctrine of equitable estoppel will not permit Defendant Mercedes to enforce
the Agreement against Plaintiff. Nor can it do so as a third-party beneficiary.
Defendant Mercedes has offered no other claim of entitlement to enforce the Agreement,
which is its burden as a non-signatory. Therefore, this motion is DENIED. 


