  Case Number:  20STCV31278    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Extend
Discovery Cutoff Date
 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff Brian Gray,
Jr.    
Responding Party:                   Defendants Aaron Peck, et al.

Tentative Ruling:                    Grant
BACKGROUND
             On August 18, 2020, Plaintiff Brian
Gray, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Aaron Peck, John
Peck, Kim Peck, and Does 1 to 25, inclusive (collectively “Defendants”),
alleging (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3) further
appropriate relief according to proof at the time of trial. Plaintiff alleges
he was injured by Defendants’ negligent operation and entrustment of their
vehicle on September 8, 2018 at 939 S. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, CA 90015.
             On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to re-open expert discovery for the limited purpose of
deposing experts. On May 8, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. On May 16,
2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.               
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law
            Except as otherwise provided, “any party shall be entitled as a
matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day,
and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day,
before the date initially set for trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020(a).)¿ “[A] continuance or postponement of the trial date does not
operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a motion to reopen discovery is
filed and granted pursuant to CCP section 2024.050.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020(b); Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products,
Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)¿ CCP section 2024.050 provides that
“[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)¿ 
            “The
purpose of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite and facilitate
trial preparation and to prevent delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the parties
could tie up each other and the trial court in discovery and discovery disputes
right up to the eve of trial or beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be effective the
cutoff date must be firm or some litigants will manipulate the proceedings to
avoid the cut-off date.”¿ (Beverly Hosp. v. Superior Court¿(1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 1289, 1295.)¿ The reopening of discovery is a matter that is
committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050(a), (b).)¿ In exercising that discretion, the trial court considers
“any matter relevant to the leave requested,” including: 
            (1)
The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
(2)
The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿¿ 
(3)
Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion
will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other
party. 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action.  
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).) 
            A
motion to reopen discovery pursuant to CCP section 2024.050 must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal
resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).) 
Analysis
            Plaintiff requests that the Court reopen discovery for the limited purpose
of deposing Defendant’s experts. Plaintiff states there is good cause to reopen
expert discovery for the following reasons. On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff
moved for an ex parte continuance of the trial date and, on the same day,
Defendants offered deposition dates for their experts in late November. This
led Plaintiff to believe that discovery would remain open, even after the trial
was continued on November 17, 2023, but Defendants argued that discovery had
closed. Plaintiff claims he diligent in pursuing discovery, including detailed
written requests and scheduling depositions. An administrative error in
Plaintiff’s firm resulted in a reminder to be set incorrectly, but efforts to
schedule depositions continued. Plaintiff asserts that deposing Defendants’
experts is essential for fair litigation, particularly since Defendants dispute
the cause and extent of the Plaintiff’s injuries. Furthermore, Plaintiff states
that re-opening discovery will not delay the trial or prejudice Defendants, but
denying the motion would severely prejudice Plaintiff by limiting his ability
to prepare adequately.
            In opposition, Defendants state that Plaintiff has demonstrated a lack of
diligence throughout the discovery process. They highlight that discovery has
been cut off since November 28, 2023. Defendants point out that Plaintiff’s
prior attempts to reopen discovery were denied by the Court (ex parte requests
on November 17, 2023 and April 9, 2024). They state that Plaintiff’s experts
were not made available for depositions before the discovery cut-off, despite
multiple notices and attempts by Defendants to schedule these depositions.
Furthermore, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s motion is based on conclusory
statements rather than factual evidence of diligence or necessity. They also
point out that Plaintiff did not attempt to meet and confer before filing the
motion, a mandatory requirement under California law.
            In reply, Plaintiff states
that his experts did not fail to appear for depositions, but rather Defendants
unilaterally set deposition dates for January 24, 2023, which Plaintiff
promptly responded to and stated were feasible. Due to an emergency with
Defendant’s counsel, the depositions could not proceed as planned, Plaintiff states
he suggested mediation to resolve the matter informally and asked if
depositions should be postponed during this process to save costs. Following
the trial continuance on March 1, 2023, Defendants served a new demand for
exchange on March 13, 2023, indicating their intent to designate new experts
and reschedule existing depositions. Plaintiff claims he did not re-designate his
experts because there were no changes. Defendants later argued that the
Plaintiff's original expert designation was invalid due to the lack of
re-designation on April 6, 2023, despite this not being a requirement. Defendants
sought a trial date continuance on June 1, 2023, and served another demand to
exchange on July 18, 2023, with an exchange date of August 9, 2023. Expert
depositions were initially reset for September 1, then postponed to November
2023 due to personal issues and the Plaintiff’s trial engagement starting on
September 25, 2023.
            While additional efforts to meet and
confer could have been made, Plaintiff’s counsel did make reasonable efforts to
schedule the expert discovery but was rebuffed. 
Further, there appears to be reasonable grounds for Plaintiff to have believed
that expert discovery had been extended – specifically, efforts by both parties
to schedule depositions after the trial continuance on November 17, 2023.  Plaintiff points to an administrative error
in Plaintiff’s counsel firm as one of the reasons why there was some delay in
scheduling the depositions. Plaintiff’s reply demonstrates that the parties
were in communication regarding discovery and scheduling depositions. It
appears that these dates were canceled or rescheduled due to the parties’
unavailability and emergencies. Further, the Court finds there is good cause to
extend the deadline. Given the disputes as to the cause and extent of Plaintiff’s
injuries, denying the motion would severely prejudice Plaintiff by limiting his
ability to prepare adequately for trial. The trial is set for June 11, 2024.
Plaintiff argues that both parties can address and resolve expert discovery
issues in time for the trial since the experts are already retained and
prepared.
      Our
Supreme Court has noted the importance of the general policy in favor of a
trial on the merits and that the policy should be honored with “some showing”
of excusable delay.  Salas v. Sears,
Roebuck & CO. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 347. 
In Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
our Supreme Court reviewed several reasons supporting the trial court’s
discretion to allow additional discovery and suggested that, in the absence of
the discovery being unduly burdensome or oppressive, the policy should be to
allow it.  Id. at 254.
Here,
the Court finds there was an adequate showing of excusable delay and also finds
that allowing expert depositions to take place is in line with the public
policy of allowing a trial on the merits and encouraging a pretrial settlement based
on knowledge gained from the depositions. 
Thus, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion.

CONCLUSION 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Reopen Expert Discovery is GRANTED. 
Expert depositions to be completed by the cut-off date based on the new
trial date which may be extended by written stipulation between the
parties.   
Plaintiff to give
notice.          