 Case Number:  24SMCV00099    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Fanfixapp LLC,
et al., v. Passes Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00099
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories nos. 2-6
HEARING DATE:   7/5/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In the absence of contrary court
order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad. “[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action . . . if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.220(a) requires that “[e]ach answer in a response to interrogatories shall
be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to
the responding party permits.” Pursuant to CCP section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Passes Inc. moves to
compel Plaintiffs Fanfixapp LLC and Superordinaryco USA Inc.’s further response
to Special Interrogatory (SROG) nos. 2-6. The court will examine each SROG and
operative response in turn, excluding unmeritorious objections:
 
SROG NO. 2: For each ALLEGED
TRADE SECRET that FANFIX identified in response to Interrogatory No. 1,
identify with precision and specificity the individual(s) FANFIX contends first
created each ALLEGED TRADE SECRET and the date(s) of such creation. 
 
RESPONSE: The individual(s) most
knowledgeable regarding the trade secrets and other confidential information
presently believed or known to have been misappropriated to Defendant are Harry
Gestetner and Simon Pompan.
 
The motion is granted as to this
SROG and likely any other SROG requesting information on the trade secrets “identified
in response to Interrogatory No. 1.” The Court has ordered a further response
to SROG no. 1, which will likely necessitate amended responses to each SROG
referencing no. 1. In any event, the Court will examine the propriety of the
operative responses to guide Plaintiff’s further responses, to note any
exceptions, and to determine whether sanctions are proper.  
 
The response to SROG no. 2 is
evasive. The SROG plainly seeks the identity of individuals which first created
the alleged trade secrets and their dates of creation. The answer avoids this
question entirely, and provides individuals that are “most knowledgeable” about
trade secrets. Plaintiff does not aver that Harry Gestetner and Simon Pompan
are the individuals that created the alleged trade secrets. Plaintiff also does
not provide any dates of creation. A further response is therefore required.
 
SROG NO. 3: For each ALLEGED
TRADE SECRET that FANFIX identified in response to Interrogatory No. 1,
identify with precision and specificity every third party to whom FANFIX has
ever disclosed each such ALLEGED TRADE SECRET.
 
RESPONSE: Plaintiff does not
“disclose” the documents and information identified in response to
Interrogatory No. 1 in the manner suggested by this request. To the extent the
request is meant to apply to employees, the documents and information identified
in Plaintiff’s response to No. 1 are made accessible to employees solely for
the purpose of performing their duties for Plaintiff and subject to strict
confidentiality obligations. To the extent the request is meant to apply to
nonemployee third parties such as vendors, creators, and/or agencies, an
accounting of every instance or circumstance in which such access has been
provided to limited portions or aspects of the documents and information
identified in Plaintiff’s response to No. 1 is not reasonably feasible, but in
any event would have been likewise subject to strict confidentiality
obligations pursuant to a nondisclosure agreement.
 
This response is also evasive. The
call of the question requests identities of third parties to whom Fanfix
disclosed any trade secrets. The response does not provide the identities of
any such third parties. The response initially denies “disclosing” trade
secrets to third parties “in the manner suggested by the request.” However, the
request did not suggest any manner of disclosure. Further, the response admits
that Plaintiff does disclose trade secrets to third parties but then falls back
on unsubstantiated privacy and trade secrets objections. Even if every third
party signed an NDA, Defendants would still be entitled to their
identification.  Accordingly, a further
response is required.
 
SROG NO. 4: For each ALLEGED
TRADE SECRET that FANFIX identified in response to Interrogatory No. 1,
identify with precision and specificity the circumstances under which FANFIX
contends PASSES acquired each ALLEGED TRADE SECRET.
 
RESPONSE: The circumstances under
which Defendant improperly obtained Plaintiff's confidential and trade secret
information are alleged in the operative Complaint. Defendant received such
information through its relationship with, encouragement of, and/or actions in
concert with Alec Celestin.
 
Here, the Court concludes that the
“circumstances” under which Passes acquired each trade secret is vague and
overbroad. Most likely a further response would not be required.  However, the Court has ordered a further
response to SROG no. 1. To the extent that supplemental response calls for an
update to this SROG, Passes should also update this answer.  
 
SROG NO. 5: With respect to
any contention by FANFIX that PASSES used one or more of FANFIX’s ALLEGED TRADE
SECRETS without authorization, separately identify each such alleged use with
precision and specificity, including but not limited to the date(s) of alleged
use, place(s) of alleged use, person(s) who put such information to alleged
use, witnesses to each alleged use, and exact manner in which each alleged use
was effectuated.  
RESPONSE: Plaintiff refers
Defendant to the operative Complaint, its responses to the preceding requests,
and the documents that have been and/or will be produced in response to
Defendant’s Requests for Production, Set One. Plaintiff specifically refers Defendant
to the document (produced as Highly Confidential – Outside Attorneys’ Eyes
Only, Bates number to be determined) which identifies creators Defendant
solicited and poached either directly or through Celestin by using or
disclosing Plaintiff’s confidential information including, without limitation,
creator lists, performance analytics, and contract terms. This response is not
intended to be exhaustive, but is based upon the information reasonably
available to Plaintiff as of the date below. Plaintiff reserves the right, but
assumes no obligation, to further amend or supplement this response and any
accompanying production as appropriate or warranted by receipt of responsive
information previously in the exclusive possession, custody, or control of persons
or entities other than Plaintiff, particularly insofar as such information
includes the precise dates, places, persons, and witnesses involved in the use
of the referenced documents and information called for by the request.
 
The response is somewhat evasive. Plaintiff
generally references the complaint and prior discovery, without citing any
specific “use” of a trade secret. Plaintiff does not provide any unauthorized
use of the alleged trade secrets, including the requested information
concerning the alleged use (dates, places, persons, witnesses, manner).
Therefore, a further response is required.
 
SROG NO. 6: With respect to
any contention by FANFIX that PASSES disclosed one or more of FANFIX’s ALLEGED
TRADE SECRETS without authorization, separately identify each such alleged
disclosure with precision and specificity, including but not limited to the
date(s) of alleged disclosure, place(s) of alleged disclosure, person(s) who
made each such disclosure, recipient(s) of each such disclosure, witnesses to
each alleged disclosure, and exact manner in which each alleged disclosure was
effectuated.
 
RESPONSE: Plaintiff refers
Defendant to the operative Complaint, its responses to the preceding requests,
and the documents that have been and/or will be produced in response to
Defendant’s Requests for Production, Set One. Plaintiff specifically refers Defendant
to the document (produced as Highly Confidential – Outside Attorneys’ Eyes
Only, Bates number to be determined) which identifies creators Defendant
solicited and poached either directly or through Celestin by using or
disclosing Plaintiff’s confidential information including, without limitation,
creator lists, performance analytics, and contract terms. This response is not
intended to be exhaustive, but is based upon the information reasonably
available to Plaintiff as of the date below. Plaintiff reserves the right, but
assumes no obligation, to further amend or supplement this response and any
accompanying production as appropriate or warranted by receipt of responsive
information previously in the exclusive possession, custody, or control of persons
or entities other than Plaintiff, particularly insofar as such information
includes the precise dates, places, persons, and witnesses involved in the
disclosure of the referenced documents and information called for by the
request.
 
The response is also evasive.
Plaintiff generally references the operative complaint and prior discovery,
without citing any specific “use” of a trade secret. Plaintiff does not provide
any unauthorized use of the alleged trade secrets, including the requested
information concerning the alleged use (dates, places, persons, witnesses,
manner). Therefore, a further response is required.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to nos. 2-6.
 
Further responses are due within 30
days.  