  Case Number:  21PSCV00172    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  K Defendants Enhancer Elsinore LLC’s, Esther Lin’s and
Walter Lynn’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
Background   
Plaintiff Manking ELS, LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On May 19, 2017, Plaintiff entered into a
Commercial Lease Agreement (“CLA”) with Enhancer Elsinore, LLC, Esther Lin and
Walter Lynn (collectively, “Defendants”) pertaining to the Elsinore Hot Springs
Motel (“Property”). The CLA, which was to be effective on June 16, 2017, called
for a three-year lease term. At Defendants’ request, the parties on June 16,
2017 signed an Addendum, extending the lease from July 16, 2017 to such date at
which inspections pass to qualify the Property for an occupancy permit. At the
same time the parties executed the CLA, Defendants drafted a Hotel Management
Agreement (“HMA”), which the parties entered into on June 16, 2017. Defendants
failed to pay rent and failed to manage and maintain the Property. 
On November 12, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint,
asserting causes of action against Defendants and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Written Contract
2.                 
Fraud/Misrepresentation
3.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation
4.                 
Breach
of Fiduciary Duties
5.                 
Common
Counts
6.                 
Accounting

On March 1, 2022, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the second
and third causes of action, without leave to amend.
The Final Status Conference is set for March 4, 2024. Trial is set for
March 25, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in
a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth. . . :
(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him…” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10, subd.
(a).) “A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50, subd. (a).)
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party against
whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint
any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the
complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any
other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not
pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) A “‘[r]elated cause of action’
means a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence,
or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the
plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 426.50(a).)
Discussion
Defendants move the court for leave
to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and proposed Cross-Defendants Chung
Chin Tsai aka Johnny Tsai (“J. Tsai”) and Kenny Tsai (“K. Tsai”).
The proposed cross-complaint is compulsory,
inasmuch as it is asserted against Plaintiff and involves a “related cause of
action” as defined by Code of Civil Procedure § 426.10, subdivision (c). Causes
of action arise out of the “same transaction or occurrence” if there is “a
logical relationship between the prior complaint and the cross-complaint.” (ZF
Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69,
82). In contract cases, the compulsory cross-complaint statute is not limited
to the specific breach asserted in plaintiff’s complaint; instead, the entire
contractual relationship is included within the term “transaction.” (See Align
Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 962 [“The fact that the
substantive breaches of duty and contract alleged by [plaintiff] here differ
from those asserted against [cross-complainant] in the prior suit does not
negate a finding of logical relatedness, particularly in view of the fact that [cross-complainant]
cross-complained against [plaintiff] in the prior suit for alleged breaches of
obligations arising out of the same employment relationship. In this regard, we
find the reasoning of a case applying the federal compulsory counterclaim
statute useful: ‘The word “transaction” in Rule 13(a) cannot be read in
such a restrictive sense as to limit compulsory counterclaims in actions for
breach of contract to those addressed to the specific breach on which a
plaintiff bases his claim for breach. The spirit and intent of Rule 13(a)
requires that the entire contractual relationship be deemed to be included
within the word “transaction” in cases sounding in contract. [Citation.]’”].
Here, Plaintiff’s claims arise out
of the CLA and HMA; more specifically, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants
breached the agreements by failing to pay rent, failing to manage and maintain
the Property and by failing to manage the Property with respect to Room 121 and
Room 120/120B. (SAC, ¶¶ 30-32). Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint likewise
pertains to the parties’ contractual relationship.
The question remaining, then, is
whether or not Defendants have acted in good faith. “The provision in section
425.60 relating to ‘good faith’ does allow trial courts a ‘modicum of
discretion’ in allowing amendments to cross-complaints. Nonetheless, what constitutes ‘good
faith’ must be determined in conformity with the liberality conferred upon the
trial courts by the section and by prior law.” (Sidney v. Superior Court
(1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.) “[T]his principle of liberality requires that
a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right
to file a cross-complaint under this section.” (Id. [quotations and
citation omitted].)
There is no evidence that Defendants
have acted in bad faith. Further, Plaintiff, J. Tsai and K. Tsai concede that
they have known of Defendants’ condition precedent argument since at least the
time of the May 2023 MSC. (Opp., 6:16-17). The motion is granted.