 Case Number:  BC691050    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  D DUE TO THE COURT’S
SCHEDULING ISSUES, THE CALENDAR WILL START AT 8:30 A.M. AND WILL RECESS AT 9:30
A.M. WHATEVER MATTERS HAVE NOT BEEN CALLED WILL
TRAIL TO THE 1:30 P.M.  TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  14 Date: 10/18/2024 Case No:  BC 691050    Case Name: Steger v. CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES BY JUDGMENT DEBTOR TO DISCOVERY (2) Moving Party: Defendant Olympus America Inc.       Responding Party:  Judgment Debtor Blake J. Lindemann     RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Olympus’ First Set of Judgment Debtor Interrogatories Responses to Olympus’ First Set of Judgment Debtor Requests for Production of Documents CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     April 19, 2024, email Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVEDDate Motion filed: August 16, 2024  FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:On January 22, 2018, plaintiff Jason Steger filed this action, alleging that in October of 2016, plaintiff was admitted to defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center with abdominal pain, and that defendants, various medical providers, negligently performed a colonoscopy procedure on plaintiff which perforated his colon in multiple areas.  Plaintiff alleges that after the procedure, his pain worsened and he went into septic shock.  Plaintiff alleges that he ultimately underwent a total colectomy with ileostomy and other procedures, and his entire colon was removed.  On September 6, 2019, the court heard a motion for summary judgment brought by defendant Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, which was granted, and the trial court’s orders as to that defendant were affirmed on appeal.   On July 6, 2020, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting defendant Olympus America, Inc. as the true name of the defendant designated in the complaint as Doe 1.    The operative complaint alleges that defendant Olympus America sells, markets and services medical products, including endoscopes such as the specific endoscopes involved in the subject incident, that the endoscopes were defective, that the Olympus defendants performed inadequate evaluation and testing of the scopes, including failing to properly determine the scope’s reprocessing protocol adequately disinfected the device for safe subsequent use in multiple endoscopic patients, and fraudulently marketed the scopes, as a result of which plaintiff suffered injuries.  Beginning in October of 2022, the court entered various orders and heard motions concerning the five-year deadline applicable to this case, as well as discovery motions.  On December 1, 2023, the court heard a motion concerning augmenting plaintiff’s expert witness list, and two motions to dismiss the action for failure to bring the matter to trial, one filed by defendant Olympus, and one filed by defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao.   At the hearing, the court issued a tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was to continue the hearing for further briefing in connection with the motions to dismiss of a narrow issue designated by the court:“Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss Action for Failure to Bring the Matter to Trial is CONTINUED to December 22, 2023 for further briefing on the narrow issues of whether plaintiff can meet his burden pursuant to CCP section 583.340(c) of establishing that it is impossible, impractical, and/or futile to bring the case to trial within the five-year statutory period during the time the parties are engaging in preparing and amending their long-cause package, and the matter is under evaluation for submission to long-cause. The Court will expect further legal briefing and a further factual record limited to the issues of trial readiness, causality and the exercise of reasonable diligence in connection with the above issue, and in light of the recently filed published decision of Oswald v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023)__Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095. Supplemental Opposition is to be filed and served by no later than December 11, 2023. Supplemental Replies are to be filed and served no later than December 15, 2023.”[Minute Order 12/02/2023, p. 37].  A similar order was made in connection with the motion to dismiss brought by Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao.  On December 6, 2023, defendant Olympus filed and served a Notice of Ruling Re: Proceedings Held on December 1, 2023, and attached a copy of the court’s December 1, 2023 minute order.    Supplemental briefs were then filed, served, and considered by the court and at the hearing on December 22, 2023, the court denied a motion by plaintiff for reconsideration of the court’s September 15, 2023 orders in connection with the deposition of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Gazi and monetary sanctions, and granted the two motions to dismiss under CCP section 583.360 for failure to have brought the case to trial within five years, as extended by statute by six months.  Plaintiff’s motion to augment and substitute experts was deemed moot in light of the granting of the motions to dismiss.  On January 12, 2024, the court signed and filed a Judgment of Dismissal as to Defendant Olympus America, Inc., ordering, adjudging and decreeing that plaintiff’s operative Second Amended Complaint was dismissed pursuant to CCP sections 583.310 as to defendant Olympus America, Inc.  The judgment further states that defendant “shall recover its costs of suit from Plaintiff Jason Steger in accordance with a bill of costs to be filed after entry of this judgment.”  A similar Judgment of Dismissal as to Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D., and James Kao, M.D. was filed and signed the same date.  Also on January 12, 2024, the court signed and filed an Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from September 15, 2023 Hearing in Favor of Defendant Olympus America, Inc., ordering plaintiff Jason Steger, plaintiff’s counsel of record Blake J. Lindemann and Lindemann Law Firm, APC to pay the monetary sanctions in the amount of $6,672.90, plus interest, jointly and severally, to defendant Olympus America, Inc. within thirty days of notice of entry of the order.   A similar Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from September 15, 2023 Hearing in Favor of John A. Kasher, M.D., and James Kao, M.D.  was filed and signed the same date, ordering the payment of monetary sanctions in favor of defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. in the sum of $3,351.93, payable within thirty days of notice of the entry of the order.  Also on January 12, 2024, the court entered an Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from August 6, 2021 Hearing in Favor of Defendant Olympus America Inc., summarizing an August 6, 2021 minute order which awarded sanctions in connection with four discovery motions, three for responses to written discovery, and one to deem requests for admissions deemed admitted, which motions had been rendered moot by the service of belated responses prior to the hearing.  The court awarded monetary sanctions in the total amount of $2,825.00 in favor of defendant Olympus America, Inc. and against plaintiff Jason Steger.  The order provides, “Plaintiff Jason Steger is ordered to pay the monetary sanctions to Defendant Olympus America Inc. within thirty (30) days of notice of entry of this order.”    On January 18, 2024, the clerk filed and served a Notice of Entry of Dismissal, giving notice of the entry of the order of dismissal on January 12, 2024, and of entry of the orders for monetary sanction awards filed on January 12, 2024.  On February 13, 2024, plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal indicating that plaintiff Jason Steger “files his notice of appeals to the Court of Appeal of the State of California, Second Appellate District, from the Notice of Ruling Dismissing this Case pursuant to the Five-Year Rule, dated December 27, 2023, the subsequent Judgment signed on this case on January 12, 2024, and all interim adverse rulings and findings previously issued in the Case through and including January 12, 2024, and any adverse rulings in the case made post-judgment.”On March 6, 2024, plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal indicating that plaintiff Jason Steger, Blake J. Lindemann and Lindemann Law Firm, APC filed a notice of appeal to the court of appeal:“from the Notice of Ruling Dismissing this Case pursuant to the Five-Year Rule, dated December 27, 2023, any subsequently signed Judgment, and all interim adverse rulings and findings previously issued in the Case through and including January 12, 2024, and any adverse rulings in the case made pre or post-judgment.” On May 3, 2024, the court heard a motion to by plaintiff to clarify stay or to clarify that not paying discovery sanctions will not constitute a willful act of disobedience, seeking to stay the enforcement of the orders imposing monetary sanctions in this matter pending appeal, as well as a motion by plaintiff to strike, tax or disallow costs sought by defendant Olympus and defendants James Kasher and John Kao in their memoranda of costs.  The motion to clarify stay was denied, the court noting that to the extent the motion sought clarification of the court’s sanctions orders, judgments of those orders had been entered as final judgments on January 12, 2024, so that the court was without power to reconsider or change those judgments.  [Minute Order 5/3/2024, pp. 11, 12].    The motion to strike and tax with respect to the memoranda of costs filed by the defendants was granted in part, the court awarding costs to defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao in the sum of $20,120.15, and to defendant Olympus in the sum of $1,379.64.   Plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration of the motion to clarify the stay, and defendants Olympus and defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao filed motions for reconsideration of the motions to strike and tax costs, which were heard on July 5, 2024, and were denied.  On July 22, 2024, the court of appeal filed a dismissal order stating, “It appearing that the appellant is in default pursuant to Rule 8.100(g), California Rules of Court, the appeal filed February 13, 2024 is dismissed.” On September 13, 2024, plaintiff filed a Notice of Deposit in Lieu of Bond, stating that the principals to be protected by the deposit to stay enforcement pending appeal are Lindemann Law, APC, and that plaintiff’s counsel deposits the sum of $10,009.35 in lieu of bond paid directly by Lindemann Law, APC (firm) in connection with the sanctions order of September 15, 2023 against firm and in favor of Olympus in the amount of $6,672.90, and the sanctions order of September 15, 2023 against firm and in favor of John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. in the amount of  $3,351.93.  The notice indicates the deposit is made pursuant to CCP section 995.710.  There is no proof of service showing that the notice was served.     On October 2, 2024, a Remittitur was filed in this case, indicating that the July 22, 2024 order, opinion or decision had now become final, with respondents to recover costs on appeal.   On October 3, 2024, defendant Olympus filed a notice that it had filed a motion to dismiss plaintiff’s appeal.  The motion argues that the portion of the appeal filed on March 6, 2024, the second appeal, which defendant argues  is identical to the first appeal filed on February 13, 2024, is barred because the February 13, 2024 appeal has now been dismissed, and no second appeal from the same judgment can be maintained.ANALYSIS:Procedural Untimely OppositionUnder CCP §1005(b):“All papers opposing a motion…shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days… before the hearing.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1300(d), “If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”  Here, a “non opposition” was filed to the motion, which, as discussed below, is not a non-opposition, but clearly intended to oppose the granting of the relief requested.   This document was served and filed on October 8, 2024 for an October 18, 2024 hearing, only eight days prior to the hearing, so was one court day late.  The court, in its discretion, could refuse to consider the untimely filing, but the court elects not to do so.  SubstantiveDefendant Olympus seeks an order compelling judgment debtor Blake J. Linneman, plaintiff’s attorney who was personally sanctioned in this matter, to serve responses to interrogatories and document demands.  CCP sections 708.020 and 708.030 permit a judgment creditor to propound interrogatories and document demands on a judgment debtor to obtain “information to aid in enforcement of the money judgment.”    Under CCP section 708.020(c), “Interrogatories served pursuant to this section may be enforced, to the extent practicable, in the same manner as interrogatories in a civil action.”   A similar provision applies to document demands.  CCP section 708.030(c).  Under CCP § 2030.290, “if a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any legal right to exercise the option to produce...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”   Similar provisions apply to document demands.  CCP section 2031.300.  In this case, interrogatories and document demands and have been directed to judgment creditor Linneman concerning available assets for the enforcement of the judgment, and judgment creditor has failed to serve timely responses. Defendant/judgment creditor has appropriately moved for an order to compel. Accordingly, judgment debtor has waived any option to produce, as well as all objections, and will be ordered to respond. Plaintiff has filed a “NOTICE OF NON-OPPOSITION AS TO UNDERLYING REQUESTS FOR DISCOVERY AS TO (1) MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE BY JUDGMENT DEBTOR BLAKE J. LINDEMANN TO DEFENDANT OLYMPUS AMERICA INC.’S FIRST SET OF JUDGMENT DEBTOR REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, (2) MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE BY JUDGMENT DEBTOR BLAKE J. LINDEMANN TO DEFENDANT OLYMPUS AMERICA INC.’S FIRST SET OF JUDGMENT DEBTOR INTERROGATORIES FILED BY DEFENDANT OLYMPUS AMERICA INC.”This “Non-Opposition” is apparently intended to address both motions jointly.  The document apparently is not intended to be a non-opposition, that is, to notify the court that the responding party does not object to the court granting the motion and ordering the relief requested. The document appears to argue that the motions are moot because on September 25, 2024, since the filing of these motions, plaintiff Jason Steger served verified discovery responses pursuant to a protective order.  These motions are not directed to plaintiff Jason Steger, and there is no indication that responding party Blake Linneman has served responses rendering the motions moot.  The motions are not denied as moot on this ground. The non-opposition then appears to argue that the motions should be denied because a significant amount of time has lapsed from the date of service of discovery and the date of the motions to compel, in effect, 119 days.  However, there is no statutory deadline for bringing a motion to compel responses to discovery which has not been responded to at all, and judgment debtor has failed to cite any authority under which the motions are untimely.  There is also no citation to any authority requiring a meet and confer when no responses at all have been served. The non-opposition then appears to argue that the motions should be deemed moot, or, evidently, stayed, because on September 13, 2024 counsel posted a cash bond in the amount of the sanctions awarded of $10,024.83.  The non-opposition argues that pursuant to CCP section 917.1, all collection activity as to the sanctions in that amount is to cease.  The argument is confusing, as the Notice of Deposit in Lieu of Bond evidently relied upon makes no mention of any bonding of the sanction order as entered against Blake J. Lindemann, the judgment debtor here, but expressly states that “[t]he principals protected by the deposit to stay enforcement pending appeal, are Lindemann Law, APC (“Firm”),” and that the sanction orders subject to the deposit are those made “against Firm,” that, “[t]he funds are being paid directly by Lindemann Law, APC, and not the client or anybody else,” and that the deposit “may not be used for any other purpose other than to obtain a stay of the enforcement of” the sanctions order, “return the funds to Lindemann Law, APC” if the appeal is successful, “or to enforce the liability of the principals…,” and that the “Firm agrees and authorizes” the court “to apply the deposit to enforce the liability of the principal on the deposit solely limited to, and in connection with, the appeal of the sanction order and order denying the motion to reconsider.”  [Notice of Deposit, paras. 2, 4, 5, 7, 8].  The liability of Blake Lindemann individually has not been subject to a deposit in lieu of bond at all.  The enforcement of the orders against the judgment debtor at issue, Blake Lindemann, the individual, is accordingly not subject to stay of execution.   Moreover, even if the deposit is to be considered as made on behalf of Lindemann as an individual, the sum of the deposit made was evidently calculated by adding together the sums of the sanctions awards made against Lindemann, and/or the Firm, and depositing approximately that total sum.  (No deposit is made to cover the sanctions awarded only against plaintiff Steger).   The deposit amount mentioned in the Notice is $10,009.35.  [Notice of Deposit, para. 6].  The amount of the sanctions awards are $6,672.90 and $3,341.93, which combined would total $10,024.83, more than the deposit.  The deposit is expressly made pursuant to CCP section 995.710, under which:“(a) Except as provided in subdivision (e) or to the extent the statute providing for a bond precludes a deposit in lieu of bond or limits the form of deposit, the principal may, without prior court approval, instead of giving a bond, deposit with the officer any of the following:(1) Lawful money of the United States or a cashier's check, made payable to the officer, issued by a bank, savings association, or credit union authorized to do business in this state. The money shall be held in trust by the officer in interest-bearing deposit or share accounts.” Judgment debtors have evidently overlooked subdivision (b) of CCP section 995.710, which expressly requires, in pertinent part:“(b) The deposit shall be in an amount or have a face value, or, in the case of bonds or notes, have a market value, equal to or in excess of the amount that would be required to be secured by the bond if the bond were given by an admitted surety insurer.” Under CCP section 917.1, with respect to the amount of the bond to be given by an admitted surety:“(b)… The undertaking shall be for double the amount of the judgment or order unless given by an admitted surety insurer in which event it shall be for one and one-half times the amount of the judgment or order.” The deposit here is for less than the amount of the judgment or order, not one and one half times the amount.  The deposit accordingly does not comply with the statutory requirements for making a deposit in lieu of bond, and hence it does not give rise to application of a stay. The responding party has not established that these motions are subject to a stay, such that the motions are considered by the court.  As judgment creditor has failed to establish any valid reason why responses to the subject discovery should not be compelled, the motions are granted.  Defendant Olympus in the replies indicates that even though Olympus believes that the eleventh-hour bond is not code compliant and does not cover Lindemann, Olympus is willing to forego an order compelling discovery responses from Lindemann in light of the bond, and the court may consider the request for initial responses to be moot.  However the court will hear argument concerning whether the request for a discovery order is being withdrawn.   Monetary Sanctions Moving party Olympus in the replies indicates that the requests for  monetary sanctions for the expense of having had to bring these motions is not moot, and that sanctions should be awarded.  As noted above, with respect to discovery to assist in judgment enforcement, under CCP section 708.020(c) and 708.030 (c) interrogatories and document demands served pursuant to those sections, “may be enforced, to the extent practicable, in the same manner as” such discovery “in a civil action.”   With respect to interrogatories, under CCP section 2030.290(c), with respect to interrogatories propounded in a civil action, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.”  A similar provision applies to document demands.  See CCP section 2031.300(c).CCP § 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP section 2023.030(a), “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP §2023.030(a). The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. While the replies suggest that plaintiff may have characterized responses to these motions as “non-oppositions” in order to avoid the imposition of sanctions, it is clear that those responses oppose the imposition of sanctions.  In addition, under CRC Rule 3.1348(a):“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”In this case, judgment debtor unsuccessfully has opposed these motions, failed to respond to authorized methods of discovery and  propounding party has provided evidence that it has incurred expense as a result of the conduct. The non-opposition argues that sanctions should not be awarded because plaintiff timely submitted documents and responded to the requests fairly, and that plaintiff and counsel have taken reasonable steps to resolve the discovery, including posting a bond as to two of the three orders, and providing verified discovery responses with respect to the other.  As discussed above, the judgment debtor who is the subject of these motions has not served any responses at all, and evidently what has been served was only served after motions had been filed.  There is no explanation for the significant delay in responding, when the matter was clearly not stayed due to the appeal.  Also as discussed above, the judgment debtor who is the subject of these motions has not appropriately made a deposit in lieu of bond to stay enforcement of the judgment.  No substantial justification or injustice has been established.  Moreover, as pointed out in the replies, the “non-oppositions” filed improperly argue that sanctions should not be imposed on counsel for plaintiff, who was waiting on the client for information to respond to discovery.  This argument does not apply to the discovery at issue, which was not directed to plaintiff, but to counsel personally, who has at all times been in full possession of information concerning his own finances sufficient to respond to the judgment debtor discovery.  Reasonable monetary sanctions are awarded.   The sanctions sought are $785.50 for the interrogatories motion, and  $1,837.50 for the motion concerning document demands.  A problem with the sanctions as to the interrogatories motion is that the sanctions are sought in the notice of motion only “against Plaintiff.”  [Motion, p. 2, para. 2].   Plaintiff Jason Steger, however, is not the subject of the subject discovery or the motion; the motion is directed to the conduct of judgment debtor Blake J. Lindemann.  No sanctions are requested in the notice of motion against Blake J. Lindemann.  Under  CCP § 2023.040,  “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought…”  Since Lindemann is not specified, the sanctions with respect to the interrogatories motion will not be awarded. The notice of motion with respect to the document demands expressly requests monetary sanctions “against Blake J. Lindemann.”  [Motion, p. 2, para. 3].  Sanctions accordingly are awarded in connection with that motion.  The sanctions sought, $1,837.50, which are reasonable.  As pointed out in the reply, the non-opposition does not challenge the amount of sanctions sought.  The sanctions will be awarded in full as requested. RULING:Motion to Compel Response by Judgment Debtor Blake J. Lindemann to Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s First Set of Judgment Debtor Interrogatories:The Court in its discretion reluctantly has considered the untimely “Notice of Non-Opposition,” evidently filed in response to both motions, filed one court day late, only eight court days prior to the hearing.  Responding party is  cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Motion is GRANTED (Or DENIED TO THE EXTENT WITHDRAWN BY THE MOVING PARTY IN THE REPLY).  Judgment debtor Blake J. Lindemann is ordered to serve verified responses, without objection, to Respondent Olympus America Inc.’s First Set of Judgment Debtor Interrogatories to Blake J. Lindemann Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. Section 708.020 within ten days. Request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. Motion to Compel Response by Judgment Debtor Blake J. Lindemann to Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s First Set of Judgment Debtor Requests for Production of Documents:The Court in its discretion has reluctantly considered the untimely “Notice of Non-Opposition,” evidently filed in response to both motions, filed one court day late, only eight court days prior to the hearing.  Responding party is  cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Motion is GRANTED (Or DENIED TO THE EXTENT WITHDRAWN BY THE MOVING PARTY IN THE REPLY).  Judgment debtor Blake J. Lindemann is ordered to serve verified responses, without objection, to Respondent Olympus America Inc.’s First Set of Judgment Debtor Requests for Production of Documents to Blake J. Lindemann Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. Section 708.030, and to permit inspection and copying, within ten days. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $_1,837.50_ (3.5hours @ $525 per hour) [3.5 hours requested] [Amount Requested $1,837.50], which sum is to be awarded in favor of moving party Olympus America Inc. and  against judgment debtor Blake J. Lindemann, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 708.030(c), 2031.300(c), 2023.010(d) and (h), and 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 