  Case Number:  21GDCV01289    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  D DUE TO THE COURT’S SCHEDULING ISSUES, THE CALENDAR WILL  START AT 8:30 A.M. AND WILL RECESS AT 9:30 A.M.    WHATEVER  MATTERS HAVE NOT BEEN CALLED WILL TRAIL TO THE 1:30 P.M.  TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:    3 Date:         10/18/2024 Case No:    21 GDCV01289 Trial Date:    None Set  Case Name: Ando v. Cox, et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY (2)Moving Party:  Plaintiff Kurt Ando    Responding Party: Defendant Travis Cox   RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One Further Responses to Request for Admissions, Set One   CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served : July 16, 2024 Date Responses served:                      August 16, 2024 Date Motion served:   September 17, 2024  Timely     Meet and Confer? Ok, Ex. D FACTUAL BACKGROUND: The complaint alleges that Ivy Fung, the mother of plaintiff Kurt Takashi Ando, created a Revocable Trust in 2016.   Ivy Fung was the Trustee, with successor Trustees being plaintiff and/or Marie Bernardini.   The Trust was created by Ivy Fung after she was diagnosed with terminal illness, and was revocable until her death, after which the Trust became irrevocable and all Trust property was to be handed over to her only child and next of kin, plaintiff Ado.   Ivy Fung transferred her real property in La Crescenta to the Trust.  The complaint alleges that Marie Bernardini had been named as a successor trustee by connections between Ivy Fung, Bernardini, defendant Chaba Monari and defendant Church of Scientology.  Plaintiff alleges that trust funds were used to pay defendant Monari over $200,000 a year from 2016-2017, and that following the death of Ivy Fung, Marie Bernardini began encumbering the property with loans facilitated by other defendants, used trust funds and loans to pay off her personal obligations, transferred funds to her company defendant Realty Home Solutions, and that following Marie Bernardini’s death, Bernardini’s husband defendant Jim Cox sold the property to a bona fide purchaser.  The trust was depleted of all funds with the exception of $3,000.   The complaint also alleges that defendant Cox removed personal property of Ivy Fung from the property, including expensive jewelry.   The complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, conspiracy, conversion, and negligence.  The file shows that on October 6, 2022, the court heard an OSC re: Default Judgment/Default Prove Up, at which the court was informed that defendant Jim Cox Sr. was deceased, with decedent’s son, James Cox Jr. being present in court.  The court ordered the OSC discharged and stayed the case “in its entirety, pending the disposition of the probate case.”On September 11, 2023, the court conducted a Status Conference Re: Stay/Probate Case/Status of Successor in Interest, at which Travis Cox, son of decedent, was present in court.  The court ordered the stay previously ordered to remain in full force and effect pending a hearing on a motion substituting Travis Cox as a party defendant in this action in place of defendant Jim Cox, deceased, in his capacity as Personal Representative of the Estate of Jim Cox.On January 26, 2024, the motion was granted and Travis Cox was substituted as defendant for Jim Cox III.  The matter remained subject to a stay until May 8, 2024, when at a Status Conference the court found that the Probate Court had rejected plaintiff’s creditor’s claim pursuant to Probate Code Section 925, and the court lifted the stay.    The file shows that on October 30, 2023, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, amending the complaint by substituting the true name of Sean Cox for the fictitious name of defendant Doe 1.   On September 13, 2024, the court heard a demurrer to the complaint brought by Sean Cox, which was sustained in part and overruled in part with leave to amend.  A First Amended Complaint was filed on September 18, 2024.  ANALYSIS: Plaintiffs by these motions seek to compel defendant Travis Cox to serve further responses to written discovery.   Defendant Travis Cox has filed untimely oppositions to the motions, filed two court days late and served one court day late.  The court, in its discretion, will nevertheless consider the untimely opposition papers, which indicate that the motions are moot, as on October 4, 2024, before the hearing on the motions, defendant has served plaintiff with supplemental  responses to each of the sets of discovery at issue.  [Andre Decl., para. 11, Ex. B]. Copies of the further responses are attached as Exhibit B, are verified, and were served on plaintiff on October 4, 2024.  [Ex. B].  The motions accordingly are deemed moot.   This posture leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by plaintiff.  CCP § 2030.300(d) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  A similar provision applies to requests for admissions.  CCP § 2033.290(d).  Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(e) Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery”; and “(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.”  Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under CCP § 2023.030(a), the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  “If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP §2023.030(a).  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  Under CRC Rule 3.1030(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel, even though...the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”Here, a review of the separate statements shows that the discovery includes a standard set of Form Interrogatories, to which further responses are requested to four of those interrogatories, including Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, which involves identification of facts, witnesses, and documents on which the responding party bases any response to a request for admission which is not an unqualified admission.   The responses consist of a series of boilerplate objections to these Judicial Council approved interrogatories, incomplete responses to the form interrogatories, and include language that, “Discovery is ongoing,” that responding party “reserves his right to supplement this response,” and refers to documents being produced in response to requests for production of documents and from bank statements which responding party “has in his possession, but which Propounding Party can obtain from the relevant bank institutions.”  These are inappropriate responses to the subject interrogatories, and such responses clearly necessitated bringing a motion to compel further responses.The Request for Admissions seek admissions concerning Bernardini’s lack of contact with Ando after the death of Ivy Fung, and that funds were disbursed from the Ivy Fung Family Trust after the death of Ivy Fung to various individuals, including James Cox, and that certain parties, including James Cox, encumbered real property.  The responses are denials, based on information and belief, and that responding party “lacks sufficient information to admit or deny.”  The information is being sought from Travis Cox, as personal representative of James Cox, and it is highly unlikely that defendant has no information or access to information with which to respond to the RFAs.  The responses accordingly also would have warranted the granting of the motion to compel further responses, and necessitated the motion to compel.  This situation suggests that sanctions are appropriately imposed here to shift the expense of having made the motions to the party who necessitated that the motions be brought. This posture shifts the burden to defendant to show that defendant’s conduct was substantially justified or that other circumstances would make the imposition of sanction unjust.  Defendant in opposition argues that plaintiff has acted without substantial justification, as plaintiff should have made certain that the motions were truly warranted, and it is improper for plaintiff to remain steadfast in the motions and to refuse to meet and confer after being served with supplemental responses.  This showing does not in any way confirm that defendant acted with substantial justification in delaying in serving supplemental responses, and it is clear that the motions were required to obtain such supplemental responses.   The sanctions are appropriate to shift the cost to defendant for having made the expense of the motions necessary to obtain defendant’s compliance with defendant’s discovery obligations in this matter.  Defendant has accordingly failed to meet the burden to justify not awarding sanctions here, and sanctions will be awarded.  The sanctions sought are $860 for each of the two motions.  The declaration in support of the sanctions shows that plaintiff has incurred more expense than this, for a total of at least $2,760.00 for each motion (6 hours at $450 per hour plus $60 filing fee).  The imposition of 1.8 hours at $450 for each motion, plus $60 in filing fee appears appropriately modest for the work performed. The requested sanctions and are awarded in full as requested. RULING:Motion to Compel Further Verified Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One: The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition to the motion filed and served by defendant Travis Cox two/one court days late.  See CRC Rule 3.1300(d).  Defendant is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is MOOT in light of the service on October 4, 2024 of Defendant Travis Cox’s Supplemental Responses to Plaintiff Kurt Takshi Ando’s Requests for Form Interrogatories [Set One]. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $_860__ (_1.8 hours @ $450/hour [6 hours requested, 1.8 hours noticed]) plus $60  filing fee [Amount Requested $860], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Kurt Takashi Ando and against defendant Travis Cox, and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2023.010(e) and (f), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1030(a). Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. Motion to Compel Further Verified Responses to Request for Admissions, Set One: The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition to the motion filed and served by defendant Travis Cox two/one court days late.  See CRC Rule 3.1300(d).  Defendant is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is MOOT in light of the service on October 4, 2024 of Defendant Travis Cox’s Supplemental Responses to Plaintiff Kurt Takshi Ando’s Requests for Admissions [Set One]. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $__860__ (_1.8_hours @ $450/hour [6 hours requested, 1.8 hours noticed]) plus $60  filing fee [Amount Requested $860], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Kurt Takashi Ando and against defendant Travis Cox, and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2033.290 (d), 2023.010(e) and (f), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1030(a). Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 