 Case Number:  23GDCV00805    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  D DUE TO THE COURT’S
SCHEDULING ISSUES, THE CALENDAR WILL START AT 8:30 A.M. AND WILL RECESS AT 9:30
A.M. WHATEVER MATTERS HAVE NOT BEEN CALLED WILL
TRAIL TO THE 1:30 P.M.  TENTATIVE RULING Calendar:  9 Date: 10/18/2024 Case No:  23 GDCV00805       Trial Date:  August 18, 2025Case Name: Meksian v. Maserati North America, Inc., et al. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION Moving Party: Plaintiff Peter Meksian      Responding Party:  Defendant Maserati North America, Inc.    Name of Deponent:  PMK of Maserati North America, Inc.          Status of Deponent: Defendant or defendant affiliate (party)DEPO ATTENDANCE REQUIRED BY:Formal Notice [Second Amended Notice, Ex. 6]. RELIEF REQUESTED BY MOVING PARTY:Order compelling testimony from defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and responses and production of documents. FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Peter Meksian alleges that in February of 2022 plaintiff leased a 2022 Maserati MC20, for which defendant Maserati North America, Inc. issued a written warranty, in which defendant warranted and agreed to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance. Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle was delivered to plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty, including engine, emission, electrical and suspension system defects.   Plaintiff alleges that the defects were present or developed during the express warranty period, and substantially impair the use, value, or safety of the vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff delivered the vehicle to an authorized Maserati North America, Inc. repair facility, but defendant was unable to conform plaintiff’s vehicle to warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts. Plaintiff alleges that notwithstanding plaintiff’s entitlement, defendant Maserati North America, Inc. has failed to either promptly replace the vehicle or to promptly make restitution.   The complaint also alleges that plaintiff delivered the vehicle to defendant Rusnak Maserati for repairs on numerous occasions, and that defendant Rusnak Maserati breached its duty to plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store, prepare, and repair the vehicle in accordance with industry standards. The complaint alleges three causes of action for Violation of the Song Beverly Act, for breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranty, and violation of section 1793.2, as well as a fourth cause of action for negligent repair. ANALYSIS:Plaintiffs seek an order compelling defendant Maserati North America, Inc. (Maserati) to produce its Person Most Knowledgeable to appear and testify at a deposition and produce documents requested in the deposition notice. The moving papers show that plaintiff have served defendant with a series of deposition notices, beginning on August 28, 2023, and that defendant Maserati served written objections to the original notice, and the  Second Amended Notice.  [Sogoyan Decl., paras. 19-23, Exs. 3-7].   Plaintiff indicates that despite meet and confer efforts, defendant Maserati has not responded and has not provided a witness as noticed.   [Sogoyan Decl., paras. 24-26].  This motion was filed and served on August 8, 2024, and evidently no deposition dates have been provided by defendant.   In fact, defendant in the opposition also does not offer any firm dates, indicating, “MNA is in the process of identifying its PMK witness and will notify Plaintiff’s counsel of their availability for a PMK deposition….”  [Sullivan Decl., para. 10].    CCP § 2025.450 (a) provides, in pertinent part:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party..., without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”Under CCP section 2025.230, with respect to the deposition of the person most knowledgeable: “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event the deponent shall designate and produce at deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” The moving papers sufficiently establish that defendant, a party to the action, for its person most qualified to testify, was served with deposition notices, and that the objections to those notices objected to the selected deposition dates, but defendant has failed since August of 2023 to provide mutually agreeable dates for the deposition, or to respond to reasonable meet and confer efforts, and has failed to appear for examinations as noticed.  [Sogoyan Decl., paras. 19-25].  Plaintiff accordingly is entitled to an order compelling defendant’s attendance and testimony on a date certain.  The motion also seeks that the court order the deponent to provide document production along with the deposition testimony.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (b):“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” Plaintiff argues that there is good cause for production of the requested documents because they go to the essential elements of plaintiff’s express and implied warranty and damages claim, including claims that defendant had knowledge of the defects plaguing plaintiff’s vehicle pursuant to a safety recall campaign.  [Sogoyan Decl., paras. 13-15].  Plaintiff argues that the document requests seek discoverable information, and are directly related to defendant’s monitoring, discussions, internal investigations, and analysis of the various defects in the vehicle.  The requests seek documents pertaining to the subject vehicle, and other documents which appear pertinent to the lawsuit.   Defendant in the opposition argues that this motion was not necessary as Maserati has already produced nearly all documents directly responsive to plaintiffs’ discovery requests and is in the process of searching electronically stored information databases concerning alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle.  As noted above, defendant also indicates that it will be designating a witness to testify at a PMK deposition.  It is not clear why defendant has not done so in the many months before this motion was filed, and in the time before opposition to the motion was due.  The motion accordingly is granted. The deposition and production of documents is ordered as requested.  Any argument that documents have already been produced is rejected by the court, as plaintiff is entitled to documents responsive to the current form of discovery, to be produced at the deposition.    Defendant also argues, despite its protestations of willingness to fulfill its discovery obligations, that plaintiff has failed to set forth specific fact showing good cause justifying their discovery requests.  As discussed above, sufficient good cause has been established by the moving papers.   In addition, as recognized in the opposition, this matter is subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The Order was signed and entered by the Court on January 24, 2023 and was revised, signed and entered on January 11, 2024Pursuant to that Order, “any formal discovery propounded and currently pending or outstanding by a party in this matter prior to the date of this CMC Order is stayed pending further order of the Court.”[Order section (1)(a)]. The Order sets forth the following provision concerning discovery in Song-Beverly matters which appear to address the discovery disputes raised by the current motion. With respect to depositions, the Order provides:4. Deposition:  Within the time limits allowed by law.  Defendant may depose plaintiff, and plaintiff may depose the person most knowledgeable (PMK) as to up to 5 categories of information, plus a deposition of the PMK as to why the subject vehicle was not repurchased, in addition to depositions of any experts identified by the parties, after a formal demand and exchange of expert witness information, per CCP § 2034.  Parties shall meet and confer as to whether there is a need to take any additional depositions.  Any additional depositions may only be noticed and taken by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).If a deponent resides out of state, the deposition may be taken by video conference or telephone.  The parties will not be required to travel to California, and the attorneys will not be required to travel out of state.”[Order, section 4], emphasis added.  With respect to document production, the order provides:“Production of Documents:  Within 60 days of service of this Order both plaintiff and defendant shall provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side(s):a. Purchase or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket equipment installed at the dealership, ELWs or service contracts, and any other writings signed by the plaintiff at the point of sale.b. Work orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and repair activity concerning the subject vehicles.c. Rental car or loaner agreements regarding alternative transportation provided during service or repair visits concerning the subject vehicle.d. Records of communications with dealer personnel, and/or factory representatives and defendant’s call center or customer assistance personnel concerning the subject vehicle.e. Warrant claims submitted to and/or approved by defendant concerning the subject vehicle.f. Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.g. Defendant’s written statements of policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.h. A list of or compilation of customer complaints in defendant’s electronically stored information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  A substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled maintenance items.  The list provided by defendant may be in the chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’ reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names, addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying information.i. Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicle purchased or leased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.j. Copies of any repair instruction, bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair order/invoice records for the subject vehicle.k. Receipts or other written evidence supporting any incidental or consequential damages claimed by plaintiff.If a party believes any of this information should be subject to a protective order, that party shall serve and file a proposed protective order within 5 days of this Order and the parties shall meet and confer as to agreeable language for the same.  The default will be the standard Protective Order provided by the LASC in its website.The information may be provided to the opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the producing party.Plaintiff and defendant shall serve verification with the documents they produce.Any additional requests for documents may only be propounded by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).[Order section (2)(a)].The parties are also directed to the Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for Department D, entitled Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly Litigation) (Notice).  That Notice provides:“When the court is faced with a discovery dispute in a Song-Beverly case, the court will usually order that the plaintiff and defendant provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side: 1. Defendant shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of [date of purchase] to present. 2. Defendant shall produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff's complaint in vehicles for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. This includes Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins. Defendant is not required to do a search of emails. 3. Defendant shall produce any customer complaints relating to defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. 4. Defendant shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of [date of purchase] to present. 5. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.6. Communications with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.7. Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle. 8. Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle. 9. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle. 10. Any documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential damages.” The court notes that the Order provides for PMK depositions for up to 5 categories of information, plus a deposition of the PMK as to why the subject vehicle was not repurchased.  The Second Amended Notice of Deposition designates 86 matters on which the PMK is to be examined.  [See Ex. 6].   There has been no motion made by plaintiff to show good cause for more than six subjects.  The court will hear at the hearing which of the five categories plaintiff will be pursuing at the deposition, along with the issue as to why the vehicle was not repurchased.  Defendant PMK will be ordered to appear and testify on the designated subjects on a date certain within the next twenty days.  With respect to the documents requested, the production is to be made and the deposition conducted in accordance with the Order and Notice.  If there is some further dispute concerning the production of documents or the conduct of the deposition, the parties must comply with the Order and Notice, and meet and confer in good faith concerning any outstanding discovery in light of the Order and Notice, and, if necessary, pursue a further motion which must be accompanied by a separate statement reflecting the then current status of any discovery disputes, including in that separate statement as to each request and response any applicable language of the Order and Notice. SanctionsThis leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by the moving party.   Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions for the expense of having to pursue this discovery.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (g)(1):“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”CCP § 2023.010 (d) provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”   CCP § 2023.030(a) authorizes the imposition of monetary sanctions against a party and its attorney for misuse of the discovery process.  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.   Here, the motion is granted in part under CCP § 2025.450 subdivision (a), and the statute indicates that the court “shall” impose a monetary sanction.   Defendant has failed to show how defendant was substantially justified in delaying over a year in providing a date for the PMK deposition, and in continuing to fail to fully comply the court’s Order.  Defendant in opposition does not argue that sanctions should not be awarded. It is clear that the motion was necessary to obtain defendant’s cooperation in providing a date for the PMK deposition and promptly attending to database searches for documents.  Sanctions are awarded.  The sanctions sought by plaintiff are $6,727.50.  These appear high, particularly since plaintiff will only prevail in part on the motion, in effect, to the extent the discovery is permitted by the court’s Order and Notice.  Plaintiff seeks 1.8 hours at $525 per hour to prepare multiple notices of deposition, when these were largely cut and pasted from each other, and did not comply with the court’s Order and Notice.  Some time was evidently spent in pursuing discovery not authorized by the court’s Order, when this time should have been spent seeking leave to propound additional discovery based on good cause.  The sanctions awarded will be adjusted accordingly, as follows: 3 hrs. to prepare the motion; 2hrs to prepare the reply and 1hr. to attend hearing remotely for a total of 6hrs at $525 per hr. for total attorney’s fees of $3,150.00.RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of Documents is GRANTED in part. Defendant Maserati North America, Inc. ordered to designate and produce witness(es) to appear for deposition and to give testimony on a mutually convenient date and time as to the matters requested in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant Maserati North America, Inc.’s Person(s) Most Knowledgeable and Custodian(s) of Record and Request for Production of Documents served on May 24, 2024, no later than  December 13, 2024, limited to the following five designated categories of information, plus deposition of the PMK as to why the subject vehicle was not repurchased.Good cause appearing, the deponent(s) is (are) also ordered to produce for inspection at the deposition any and all materials described in the subject notice which are consistent with this Court’s Standing Order Re Discovery (Song-Beverly Litigation), signed and entered by the Court on January 24, 2023 as revised, signed and entered on January 11, 2024, as well as materials which are consistent with this Court’s Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for Department D, Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly Litigation). Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the prevailing portion of the pending motion is $3,150.00( 6 hours @ $525 per hour) [12.7 hours requested] plus filing fee in the sum of $ 60 [$60 requested] [Amount Requested $6,727.50], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Peter Meksian and against defendant Maserati North America, Inc., and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2025.450 (g)(1), 2023.010 (d) and 2023.030 (a). Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 