 Case Number:  21STCV32999    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



WAI WING NG

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
C.C.O.A. HousING
   CORPORATION

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.
 


Case No. 21STCV32999




 




Department 45




 




 




[Tentative] RULING




 




 




Action Filed: 9/7/21




Trial Date: 10/28/24
 



 
Hearing Date:             April 22, 2024
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Miao Ying Hu 
 
Responding Party:      None
 
Motion to Substitute Successor-in-Interest for Deceased Plaintiff Miao
Ying Hu
The court has
considered the moving papers.  No
opposition was received.
The court GRANTS the motion and appoints Carrisa
Kwan as the successor in interest of deceased plaintiff Miao Ying Hu. 
 
Discussion
The instant motion
seeks to substitute Carissa Kwan (“Kwan”) as successor in the interest of her
mother, plaintiff Miao Ying Hu (“Plaintiff”). 
Kwan testifies that Plaintiff has passed away. (Motion, Declaration of
Carissa Kwan (“Kwan Decl.”), ¶ 3.) 
“A cause of action
that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action or
proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 7000) of Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate Code, and
an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30.)  
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.32 (“Section 377.32”), subdivision (a) states: “The
person who seeks to … continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following:
(1)            
The decedent’s name.
(2)            
The date and place of decedent’s death.
(3)            
‘No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate.’
(4)            
If the decedent’s estate was administered, a
copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor in interest.
(5)            
Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof:
(A)  ‘The
affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in
Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.’
(B)  ‘The
affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor
in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.’
(6)            
‘No other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding.’
(7)            
‘The affiant or declarant affirms or declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.’”
In addition, a
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must be attached to the
declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 377.32,
subd, (c).)
Here, the court
finds that Kwan’s declaration complies with Section 377.32(a) by providing the
following information. The decedent’s name is Miao Ying Hu.  (Kwan Decl., ¶ 2.)  The date and place of the decedent’s death are
April 10, 2023, in Los Angeles County, California.  (Kwan Decl., ¶ 3.)  A statement that no proceeding is now pending
in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.  (Kwan Decl., ¶ 4.)  A statement that the declarant is the
decedent’s successor in interest.  (Kwan
Decl., ¶ 6 [stating that she is the spouse of the Decedent].)  A statement that no other person has a
superior right to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action.  (Kwan Decl., ¶ 7.)  Finally, the declarant declares under penalty
of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true
and correct.  (Kwan Decl., p. 7:1-3.)
The court also
finds that Kwan has complied with Section 377.32(c) by attaching a certified
copy of the Decedent’s death certificate to her declaration.  (Kwan Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit B – Certificate of
Death.)  
The court
therefore GRANTS the motion. 
 
It is so ordered.
Date:   April 22, 2024
 
______________________
Rolf m. TREU
Judge of the Superior
Court