 Case Number:  23STCP02874    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  26  
1258 W. 37th Dr., LLC v. Robertson’s Ready Mix, Ltd,
et al.PETITION
TO RELEASE MECHANIC’S LIEN(Civil Code § 8480)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner 1258 W. 37th Dr.,
LLC’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner 1258 W. 37th Dr., LLC (“Petitioner”), filed a
Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondents Robertson’s Ready
Mix, Ltd. And Tiffany Lambo (“Respondents”) on August 9, 2023. Respondent filed
an opposition on November 29, 2023 and Petitioner replied on November 30, 2023.
Respondent filed evidentiary objections on December 4, 2023. 
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. As Respondent points out, the
Petition is brought pursuant to now-repealed statutory provisions, Civil Code
sections 3154, et seq. The correct statutes begin at Civil Code section 8480,
which provides that the owner of property may petition the court for an order
to release the property from the claim of lien if the claimant has not
commenced an action to enforce the lien within the time provided in section 8460.
(Civil Code, § 8480, subd. (a).)  
 
A property owner may not petition for a release order until
he or she gives the claimant notice demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of lien claim at least ten days before filing the petition.
(Civil Code, § 8482.) Civil Code section 8484 requires that the petition for
release order be verified by the petitioner and allege the following:
 
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to
enforce the lien.
 
(Civil Code, § 8484.) Civil Code section 8486, subdivision
(b) requires service to “be made in the same manner as service of summons, or
by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested . .
. .” (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (b).) Petitioner filed proof of service of the
Petition and the Notice of the Hearing Date by certified mail with return
receipt requested. (Declaration in Support of Petition, filed 11/28/23.) This
conforms to the statutory requirements for service. 
 
However, Respondent argues that
Petitioner has not complied with the service requirements for the pre-filing
notice, as set forth in Civil Code section 8100, et seq. The Petition includes
a copy of the pre-filing notice but has no proof of service attached. (Pet.,
Lee Decl., ¶6 and Exhs. B-D.) Respondent also argues that numerous requirements
of Civil Code section 8484 are not met, including failure to allege that the
time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien had expired and failure
to include a certified copy of the lien. In its reply, Petitioner does not
dispute that these requirements of Civil Code section 8484 have been met,
thereby conceding the opposition argument. Instead, Petitioner argues on reply
that Respondent failed to give mandatory notice of the claim of mechanic’s lien
under Civil Code section 8416, thereby rendering it invalid. (Reply, p.
2:7-27.) Neither the Petition nor reply provides any legal analysis of this
argument beyond citation to the appliable statute, which sets forth the
requirements for a claim of mechanic’s lien, including service on the owner or
reputed owner. (Citing Civ. Code, § 8416, subd. (c).) No authority is cited
regarding the effect of Respondent’s failure to provide service to the correct
address, which is undisputed. 
 
Therefore, Petitioner has not demonstrated compliance with
the requirements for a petition to release a mechanic’s lien under Civil Code
section 8484, nor any other statutory basis to do so. 
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner 1258 W. 37th Dr., LLC’s
Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED.
 
 
Court clerk to give
notice.