  Case Number:  24NWCV02063    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  F INIGUEZ v. ANDERSON 
CASE
NO.:  24NWCV02063
HEARING:
10/10/24
 
#22
 
Plaintiffs’
EDGAR INIGUEZ, JR.; and ALENRRY INIGUEZ’s motion for trial preference is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to Give notice.  
 
This
motor vehicle personal injury action was filed by Plaintiffs EDGAR INIGUEZ;
EDGAR INIGUEZ, JR., a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Edgar Iniguez;
and ALENRRY INIGUEZ, a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Edgar Iniguez
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) on July 8, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “[o]n or about November 22, 2022, at approximately 4:00 p.m.,
Plaintiff EDGAR INIGUEZ, was operating a Chevrolet Silverado upon northbound
lanes of La Mirada Boulevard…. [¶] At the time and place aforesaid Defendants,
EMMA C. ANDERSON, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, and each of them, so
negligently, tortiously, carelessly, recklessly, wantonly and unlawfully drove,
operated, maintained, conducted, controlled and entrusted said Toyota
Highlander while making a left turn onto Foster Road… as to directly and
proximately cause the same to run into and collide with Plaintiffs’ vehicle
then and there being operated by Plaintiff, EDGAR INIGUEZ…. [¶] As a direct and
proximate result of the negligence, tortious conduct, carelessness, recklessness,
wantonness and unlawfulness of defendants… and the resulting collision,
Plaintiffs, EDGAR INIGUEZ, EDGAR INIGUEZ, JR., and ALENRRY INIGUEZ, sustained
severe and serious injuries and has had, and will in the future have, pain,
suffering, worry and anxiety….” (Complaint ¶¶10-12.) 
 
Minor
plaintiffs Edgar Iniguez, Jr. and Alennry Iniquez, by and through their GAL, move
for trial preference under CCP §36(b).
 
In
Opposition, Defendant EMMA C. ANDERSON (“Defendant”) argues that preference
must be denied as the minor plaintiffs do not have a substantial interest in
the case as a whole, and that preferential trial setting would lead to a
violation of Defendant’s due process rights. 
 
“A
civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be
entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is under
14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does not have a
substantial interest in the case as a whole.” (CCP §36(b).) If the court makes
the requisite finding of fact on a motion for preference under CCP §36(b), it
has no discretion to deny the motion due to the use of the word “shall” in the
statute. (Peters v. Sup. Ct.) 1989 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224-25.) 
 
It
is undisputed that Edgar Iniguez, Jr. (age 7) and Alennry Iniguez (age 9) are
minors. The minor plaintiffs were passengers in their father’s (Plaintiff Edgar
Iniguez) vehicle at the time of the Subject Accident.  Plaintiffs allege that the minor plaintiffs
suffered injuries and emotional distress as a result of the Subject Accident.
The Court does not find that the minor plaintiffs do “not have a substantial
interest in the case as a whole.” (CCP §36(b).) 
 
Priority
is mandatory; the trial court has no discretion to refuse the minors’ request
for early setting. (Peters v. Supt. Ct. (County of Los Angeles) (1989)
212 Cal.App.2d 218, 223-224.) Defendant is not foreclosed from seeking
severance, if necessary. 
 
The
Motion is GRANTED.  