 Case Number:  23STCV03489    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 15, 2023, Plaintiff Sebastian Reyes (“Plaintiff”), a minor by and
through his guardian ad litem Daysi Villegas, filed this action against Defendants
Ramona G. Parres a.k.a. Ramona Gutierrez, Miguel
M. Parres, also known as Miguel Enrique Parres (deceased), Miguel Enrique
Parres, Jr., in his capacity as trustee of the Miguel and Ramona Parres Living
Trust dated May 16, 2014, and any amendments thereto, Does 20-60, in their
capacities as beneficiaries of the Miguel and Ramona Parres Living Trust dated
May 16, 2014, and any amendments thereto, Estate of Miguel M. Parres, also
known as Miguel Enrique Parres, deceased, Does 61-80 as executors,
administrators, personal representatives, and/or successors in interest of Estate
of Miguel M. Parres, also known as Miguel Enrique Parres, deceased, EGL Properties Incorporated, and Does 1-100 for
negligence. 
On
June 2, 2023, Defendants Ramona G. Parres
aka Ramona Gutierrez, Miguel Enrique Parres, Jr. in his capacity as trustee of
the Miguel and Ramona Parres Living Trust dated May 16, 2014 and any amendments
thereto, the Estate of Miguel M. Parres, also known as Miguel Enrique Parres, deceased (erroneously sued as Miguel M. Parres aka Miguel Enrique Parres, deceased), and EGL Properties, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”), filed an answer. Defendants also filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Veronica Badillo and Roes 1-25
for equitable indemnity, implied indemnity, comparative indemnity, contribution,
and declaratory relief.  On January 11,
2024, Defendants amended the cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant
American Reliable Windows & Doors (“Reliable”) as Roe 1. 
On
December 29, 2023, Defendant EGL Properties, Incorporated
(“EGL”) filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Reliable and Zoes
1-20 to be heard on March 28, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 14, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
EGL
requests leave to file a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Reliable and
Zoes 1-20 for indemnity, contribution, apportionment of fault, declaratory
relief, and tort of another. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded. 
“(b) This section does not apply if either of the
following are established:
“(1) The court in which the action is pending does not
have jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against the person who failed
to plead the related cause of action. 
“(2) The person who failed to plead the related cause
of action did not file an answer to the complaint against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on or about April 1, 2021, Plaintiff fell out of a
second story window of a residential building at 1411 Courtland Avenue in Los
Angeles (the “premises”) which Defendants owned, constructed, controlled,
serviced, repaired, designed, managed, operated and/or maintained.  Plaintiff allegedly suffered serious injuries. 
B.    EGL’s
motion for leave to file cross-complaint against Reliable and Zoes 1-20   
EGL’s
proposed cross-complainant alleges that Reliable and Zoes 1-20 are responsible
for Plaintiff’s claimed injuries because, to the extent the window through
which Plaintiff fell lacked fall prevention mechanisms, Reliable and Zoes 1-20
created that condition. 
C.      Ruling 
It is unclear why EGL seeks to file a cross-complaint in addition to the cross-complaint that Defendants (including EGL) have already filed, in which Reliable is now a Cross-Defendant.  After EGL filed its motion, Defendants amended their cross-complaint to include Reliable as a Cross-Defendant, but EGL has not taken its motion off calendar. The Court continues the hearing and orders EGL to file a supplemental brief explaining (1) if it continues to believe the Court should grant its motion and (2) if so, why, in light of Reliable's inclusion as a Cross-Defendant in Defendants' cross-complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant EGL
Properties, Incorporated's motion for leave to file a cross-complaint to a date to be provided at the March 28, 2024 hearing. Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.