 Case Number:  23STCV11470    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GREEN COMMUTER, INC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
GREENPOWER MOTOR COMPANY INC.; SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY EQUIPMENT
  LEASING, INC.; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants. 


 Case No.:          23STCV11470
 Hearing Date:   7/17/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Green
  Commuter Inc.’s Motion for Terminating, Issue, and Evidentiary Sanctions and
  Request for Further Monetary Sanctions



 
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc.
brings this Motion for Terminating, Issue, and Evidentiary Sanctions and
Request for Further Monetary Sanctions against Defendant San Joaquin Valley
Equipment Leasing Inc. (“SJVEL”), pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) § 2031.300(c) to issue sanctions against Defendant SJVEL for
failing to obey the Court’s April 3, 2024, Order requiring SVEL to serve
code-compliant responses, raising only valid privilege-based objections where
application. The Court also ordered SJVEL to provide all documents in response
to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production (“RFP”) to SJVEL and to remit payment of
sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $3,331.61 within twenty-one (21)
calendar days, i.e. by no later than April 24, 2024. 
After review of the parties’ papers
and evidence, the Court DENIES in Part, Plaintiff Green Commuter’s Motion for
Terminating Sanctions and GRANTS in Part, awarding monetary sanctions. 
 
Background
Commencing on April 12, 2019,
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “Green Commuter”) entered the
first of a series of four separate agreements with Defendants Greenpower Motor
Company, Inc. (“Greenpower”) and San Joaquin Valley Equipment Leasing, Inc
(“SJVEL”) whereby Defendant Greenpower was to sell a number of electronically
powered EV Star Vehicles to Plaintiff. As the Lessor, Defendant SJVEL was
obligated to finance the purchase of such vehicles. Thus, the four agreements
consisted of (1) a Passenger Van Purchase Agreement on April 12, 2019; (2) a
Lease Finance Agreement on December 17, 2019; (3) a Broker Agreement on August
31, 2022; and (4) a series of six Assigned Cargo Van Purchase Orders. On May
22, 2024, Plaintiff Green Commuter filed a complaint against Defendants for
nine causes of action, including breach of contract, conversion, unjust
enrichment, and unfair competition. 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the First Amended Complaint (“FAC) which is now the operative complaint,
alleging eight causes of action. The first four (1) – (4) causes of action are
for breach of contract; and the remaining causes of action are for (5)
conversion; (6) unjust enrichment; (7) intentional interference with
contractual relations; and (8) violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law
§ 17200, et. seq. 
On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One (“RFPs”) and Request for Monetary Sanctions against SJVEL came for hearing
before this Court. (Pl’s Mot. Sanctions, Alsaadi Decl., ¶ 13.) The Court ruled
and Ordered that Defendant SJVEL was to “serve Code-compliant responses, which
may raise valid attorney-client, work product, or mediation privilege
objections, if applicable, in relation to Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One, Nos. 1-40, within 21 calendar days of [April 3, 2024].” (Id. ¶
15.) The Court further ruled and ordered SJVEL to remit payment of sanctions in
the amount of $3,331.64 to Plaintiff within 21 calendar days of April 3, 2024.
(Id. at ¶ 16.)
On April 24, Defendant SJVEL served
amended and supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (Opp.,
Johnson Decl., Ex. B.) Defendant SJVEL claims that Defense Counsel instructed
staff to serve verifications, but apparently the verifications were not served.
(Id. at ¶ 5.)
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Sanctions (Terminating, Issue, Evidentiary, and Further
Monetary) (“Mot.”), along with a Separate Statement, the Declaration of Nadine
Alsaadi (“Alsaadi Decl.”), a Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”), and a
Proposed Order. 
On June 11, this Court heard
Plaintiff’s Hearing on Ex Parte Application to Advance Hearing Dates for
the instant motion and also for Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel as to Defendant
Green Commuter which is not the subject of the instant motion. (See 6.11.24
Minute Order.) The Court denied Plaintiff’s motion, finding Plaintiff had
failed to make an affirmative factual showing of irreparable harm, immediate
danger, or any other statutory basis for granting relief ex parte. (Id.)
The Court further ordered the Parties to further meet and confer. (Id.)
On Tuesday, July 2, 2024, Defense
Counsel, Christopher Johnson, emailed Plaintiff’s Counsel, Nadine Alsaadi,
requesting her availability for a call to meet and confer. (Johnson Decl., Ex.
F.) That same day, Plaintiff’s Counsel, Jeff Cohen, responded to Counsel
Johnson, informing him that Counsel Alsaadi was unavailable until after July 15
and further stating that he was not aware of anything that could not wait until
then. (Johnson Decl., Ex. G.)
On July 5, 2024, Defendant SJVEL
filed its Opposition, along with the Declaration of Counsel Johnson (“Johnson
Decl.”), and Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement. 
On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
its Reply. 
 
Evidentiary
Matters.
Plaintiff moves the Court to
judicially notice Exhibit A: 
1.    
The
operative petition in the action titled People of the State of California Ex Rel. Rob Bonta,
Attorney General v. Greenpower Motor Company, Inc; San Joaquin Valley Equipment
Leasing, Inc.
with Case Number CPF-24-518469 filed in the San Francisco Superior Court on
February 14, 2024; a true and correct copy of which is attached as Exhibit A.
The
Court grants judicial notice of the foregoing petition but only as to the
document’s existence and notes that the legal effect of any language contained
therein has no effect on the instant matter. Although both Plaintiff and
Defendant discuss this petition in their papers, the Court clarifies that this
is a separate matter in a separate Court which has no binding or legal effect
on the instant matter. 
Motion
for Sanctions: GRANTED, in Part.
Preliminary Considerations:
The Court briefly notes that on June 11, 2024, the Court ordered the parties to
further meet and confer. Although Plaintiff argues that the ex parte motion
related to both Defendants, as opposed to only Defendant SJVEL, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s arguments unpersuasive. In Reply, Plaintiff argues Defendant SJVEL
misconstrues the Court’s June 11, 2024, order because the present motion is
wholly separate to the subject of the June 11, 2024 Application for Ex Parte
Hearing. Plaintiff concedes that it did intend to consolidate the instant
Motion for Sanctions against SJVEL with the two discovery motions to compel
related to Defendant’s Greenpower Motor Company’s discovery violations because
the motions to compel could not be heard until August. However, Plaintiff contends
that it is not accurate to state that the Court’s reference to meet and confer
in its ex parte Order required Plaintiff to meet and confer with
Defendant SJVEL yet again on the subject of the Court’s prior order
necessitating the instant motion. Plaintiff’s argument, however, construes the
Court’s orders to “further meet and confer” only towards Defendant Greenpower
and not towards Defendant SJVEL which is inaccurate. Although the Court
acknowledges Plaintiff’s reasoning, that Defendant SJVEL may have only
attempted to meet and confer to avoid any consequences of the instant motion, a
Defendant having improper motives in initiating a meet and confer is not
grounds for Plaintiff to not participate. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff
failed to further meet and confer.
Legal
Standard: The trial court can impose terminating sanctions on a party who
fails to obey a court order compelling further responses to interrogatories or
document requests (Code Civ. Proc, §§ 2030.300, subd. (e) [interrogatories];
2031.310, subd. (i) [document requests].) A prerequisite to the imposition of
the dismissal sanction is that the party has willfully failed to comply with a
court order. (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers
Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 481, 487, overruled on other grounds in
Garcia v. McCutchen (1997) 16 Cal.4th
469, 478, fn. 4.) Preventing parties from presenting their cases on the merits
is a drastic measure; terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there
has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe
sanction would not be effective. (Link v.
Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1326.)
Generally, the
trial court may terminate a party's action as a sanction for discovery abuse
“after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.” (Lang v. Hochman (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (d) provides that “[t]he court may
impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: [¶] (1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process, [¶] (2) An order staying further
proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed. [¶] (3) An
order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. [¶] (4)
An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” A terminating
sanction is “the ultimate sanction for discovery abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 991.)
Furthermore,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290, subdivision (c) and
2021.300, subdivision (c), “[i]n lieu of or in addition to [a terminating]
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 defines
misuse of the discovery process to include “(g) Disobeying a court order to
provide discovery.”
 
“Generally, ‘[a]
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) “Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed
terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more
discovery orders.” (Ibid.)
The court of
appeal has specifically held that, “[i]f a party fails to obey an order
compelling answers to special interrogatories and/or an order compelling a
response to a demand for production of documents, the court may impose a
terminating sanction by striking out the pleading of that party and/or rendering
a judgment by default against that party.” (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1517.)
            As to issue
sanctions, subdivision (b) of Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030
provides: “The court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim
of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The
court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.”
As to evidence
sanctions, subdivision (c) of Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030
provides: “The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.”
“The discovery
statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.
Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to
but denied discovery. If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater
sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant
incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb
the abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors,
Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)
Analysis: Plaintiff Green
Commuter seeks terminating sanctions against SJVEL, striking SJVEL’s Answer to
Plaintiff’s FAC and all allegations, denials, and affirmative defenses alleged
therein with prejudice, and entering default against SJVEL as to the FAC as to
each and every cause of action alleged against SJVEL therein.  In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks issue
sanctions against SJVEL, deeming facts (a)-(i) as established which are
outlined in Plaintiff’s moving papers. (Mot., pgs. 1-2.) Plaintiff also seeks
evidence preclusion sanctions, precluding and preventing SJVEL from offering,
submitting, and admitting any evidence supporting the arguments and defenses
outlined on items (1) - (8). (Mot., pgs. 2-3.) Lastly, Plaintiff seeks monetary
sanctions against SJVEL awarding Plaintiff its attorneys’ fees and costs in the
amount of $9,871.20. (Id.) Plaintiff also asks the Court to order
Defendant SJVEL to remit payment of sanctions in the amount of $3,331.64 to
Plaintiff, as Plaintiff states as of the date of filing its moving papers that
Defendant has failed to do so. Thus, in total, Plaintiff requests the Court
order monetary sanctions in the amount of $13,202.84 payable within ten (10)
calendar days and asks the Court to set an OSC re payment of sanctions and
compliance with the Court’s prior and any further order to ensure compliance. (Id.
at pg. 11.) Plaintiff’s primary argument is that Defendant SJVEL continues to
violate the Court’s April 3, 2024 Order, compelling Defendant SJVEL to further
respond to RFPs. (Id. at pg. 3.)
 
In Opposition, Defendant concedes
it has not completed production of documents in response to Plaintiff’s RFPs,
Set One. (Opp., pg. 1.) However, Defendant SJVEL contends that its
non-compliance has not been willful, but the result of several factors,
including the sheer volume of documents Defendant has been preparing to provide,
not just for the instant action but in an action filed by the State of
California. (Opp., pg. 2.) Defendant further states that it timely served
amended and supplemental discovery responses on April 24, but that
verifications were inadvertently omitted. (Id.) Defendant also states
that it has been facing unexpected logistical challenges and has determined
over 40,000 documents are potentially responsive to Plaintiff’s requests which
is time consuming to sort through. (Id.) Defendant contends that
Defendant’s other attorney on this matter, Christopher Johnson, was out of the
country for most of June on a trip which was disclosed in Defendant’s original
Case Management Statement on September 1, 2023. (Id. at pg. 3.)
Defendant notes that Plaintiff filed the instant motion on June 7, 2024 despite
notice (from a CMC Statement filed September 1, 2023) that Defense counsel
would be travelling internationally from June 3-21, 2024. (Id., Johnson
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex, A, pg. 2.) 
While Defendant concedes that its
current document production of 448 pages is insufficient, Defendant contends
that these are key documents which include: the Master Lease Agreement with
Plaintiff, a schedule of vouchers, the Equipment Schedules for EVs leased to
Plaintiff, the applicable bills of lading, other contract documents, and
various relevant communications between SJVEL or GreenPower and Plaintiff.
(Opp., pg. 10, Johnson Decl., ¶ 23.) Defendant also argues that according to
the relevant factors considered in determining whether terminating sanctions
are appropriate, on balance, there is no question that dismissal or default is
not appropriate in the instant case. (Opp., pg .12.) There are two relevant
orders—both the April 3, 2024 Order and the June 11, 2024 Order—and Plaintiff
is in violation of the most recent through failing to meet and confer. (Id.
at pg. 11.) Lastly, Defendant SJVEL argues it is significant that Plaintiff
never actually contends that it cannot prosecute its claims with the information
it has, nor, that there are certain categories of documents that should exist
which have yet to be produced. (Id. at pgs. 10-11.) Thus, the real issue
in the instant matter is volume and more time would be appropriate in producing
the documents in question. (Id. at pgs. 11-12.)
In this case, the Court finds that if
Defendant needed more time, a request for extension, a motion for
reconsideration, or initiating a meet and confer sooner with Plaintiff than
July would have been most appropriate. Defendant did not provide such
explanation and argument before now. While the Court considers the schedules
and temporary unavailability of Defense Counsel, such reasoning does not excuse
the failure to remit sanctions or provide verified and timely supplemental
responses. 
On the other hand, terminating
sanctions are a drastic measure and although Defendant is demonstrating delay of
the discovery process, it is not clear that such obstruction is willful or
avails itself to terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions. Defendant states
in Opposition that it is currently in the process of remitting sanctions in the
amount previously ordered by the Court of $3,331.61. The Court notes that such
payment is delayed, as the Court ordered these sanctions on April 3, 2024 to be
paid within twenty-one (21) calendar days. Defendant is in clear violation of
the April 3, 2024, order because such payment was due no later than April 24,
2024. 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s moving
papers fail to demonstrate such violation of the April 3, 2024 order is willful
or that the lack of production is resulting in an inability to prosecute.
Plaintiff has not identified categories of documents that pose a particular
issue. Given that Defendant, regardless of motive, did reach out to meet and
confer on July 2, 2024, Defendant does demonstrate a willingness to cooperate
with discovery.  In short, the totality
of the circumstances does not weigh in favor of sanctions beyond monetary
sanctions to compensate Plaintiff for the time and work resulting in the
instant motion. Defendant’s failure to produce further and supplemental
document production did necessitate the instant motion which was filed before
Defendant initiated further efforts to meet and confer. 
Thus, the Court DECLINES to order
terminating, evidentiary, or issue sanctions and GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for
monetary sanctions and awards sanctions in the amount of $13,202.84 payable
within 15 calendar days. If Defendant has already remitted the $3,331.61 in
sanctions, sanctions are to be reduced accordingly. The Court will set an OSC on
August 7, 2024 at 8:30 a.m., regarding payment of sanctions and compliance with
this Order and the prior order made on April 3, 2024 to ensure production of
documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for RFPs, Set One. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff Green Commuter’s Motion for
Sanctions is GRANTED, in Part, in the amount of awarding $13,202.84 in
sanctions to be paid by Defendant SJVEL and Defendant’s Counsel, jointly, and
severally, and DENIES terminating, issue, and evidentiary sanctions. 
Defendant SJVEL is ORDERED TO REMIT
$13,202.84 in favor of Plaintiff Green Commuter within 15 calendar days, or no
later than August 1, 2024.
An OSC re: payment of sanctions and
compliance with this Court’s orders is set for August 7, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.