 Case Number:  21STCV28557    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA ELENA ESPINOZA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LUIS CORNEJO, ON TRACK
  TRANSPORTATION, INC., and DOES 1 through 20, 
 

                        Defendants.



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 21STCV28557
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 19, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Luis Cornejo and On Track
Transportation, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Maria Elena Espinoza 
 
I.   
INTRODUCTION
The
instant action arises from a motor vehicle collision on August 6, 2019. Plaintiff Maria Elena Espinoza (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that she was rear-ended by Defendant Luis Cornejo who was employed by
On Track Transportation, Inc. (“Defendants”). Plaintiff asserts two causes of
action for (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence. Plaintiff alleges
serious injuries, including traumatic brain injury, arising from the incident
described above. 
On
June 12, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff with a Notice of Demand for
Independent Medical Examination (“IME”), specifically for a mental examination.
(Heineman Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) 
On
November 20, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to compel a mental
examination of Plaintiff.
On
December 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. 
On
December 12, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
II. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220,
subd. (a).)  
Where
any party seeks to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Section 2032.220, or by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) A motion
for an examination shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination, and shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (b).)  
The
Court shall grant the motion only for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
 
III.               
 DISCUSSION
Motion
to Compel
First,
the Court finds that the instant motion is properly accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration wherein Defendants’ counsel describes attempts to resolve
the matter before filing the instant motion. (Heineman Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 4.) After
Plaintiff failed to validly object or appear at the IME, Defendants’ counsel contacted
Plaintiff’s counsel via email on November 7, 2024 and provided three dates for
Plaintiff to appear at a rescheduled IME. (Id.) Defense counsel
requested a response by the end of the week, but Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond. (Id.) Thus, Defendants properly attempted to meet and confer
before filing the instant motion. 
Second,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has placed her mental condition in controversy. Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has placed her mental condition in controversy because she
alleged in her Complaint that as a result of the motor vehicle collision, she
suffered a traumatic brain injury. (Complaint, p. 3.) Plaintiff does not
refute this assertion. Thus, Plaintiff’s mental condition is in controversy. 
Further,
Defendant contends, and Plaintiff agrees, that Plaintiff’s counsel previously
stipulated with Defendant that Plaintiff would appear for an independent mental
examination. (Heineman Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.; Opposition, p. 4.) However,
Plaintiff failed to appear or properly object to her independent mental
examination set for September 16, 2024. (Heineman Decl., ¶ 3.) While Plaintiff
argues in Opposition that Plaintiff failed to appear at the September 16, 2024
examination with “good cause” as Plaintiff was summoned for jury duty, this is
not a proper objection as Plaintiff failed to provide alternative dates or
timely notify Defendant of this unavailability. Plaintiff argues that the
mental examination was scheduled unilaterally “in violation of local court
rules” but fails to cite to any specific rule which prohibits the unilateral
scheduling of IMEs. Thus, Plaintiff failed to appear at the scheduled IME
without valid objection. Therefore, Defendants are entitled to an order
compelling Plaintiff’s attendance at the mental examination. 
The
Court also finds that Defendants properly specified the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty of psychologist Ted D. Evans, Ph.D., the person who will perform
the examination. However, the proposed order does not properly specify the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed. Thus, the Court conditionally
GRANTS the motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination, subject to
Defendants filing a compliant proposed order specifying the diagnostic tests
and procedures to be employed by Monday, December 23, 2024. 
Request
for Sanctions
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (b).)
Defendants
request $3,535 in sanctions against Plaintiff, comprised of $1,160 in attorney
fees and costs and $2,375 in no-show fees, $1,800 for Dr. Evans and $575 for
the Spanish interpreter as a result of Plaintiff’s failure to attend the IME.
(Heineman Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3.)
The
Court finds that Defendants are entitled to sanctions against Plaintiff as
Plaintiff unsuccessfully opposed the instant motion and failed to act with
substantial justification or present circumstances that make the imposition of
sanctions unjust. Plaintiff improperly objected to the IME notice without
offering alternative dates, failed to appear at the IME, and Plaintiff’s
counsel was uncooperative with Defendants’ counsel’s multiple attempts to
reschedule the IME to a mutually agreeable date. 
Further,
Plaintiff’s counsel failed to notify Defendants’ counsel of Plaintiff’s unavailability
due to jury duty in a timely manner that would allow Defendants to cancel with
the expert and interpreter without incurring fees. Plaintiff’s counsel called Defense
counsel on Thursday afternoon, September 12, 2024, with less than 48 business
hours before the Monday, September 16, 2024, IME at 8:30 AM. After Plaintiff’s
counsel notified Defendants’ counsel that Plaintiff had to report for jury duty
and would not appear at the IME, Defendants’ counsel suggested that Plaintiff
seek a continuance of jury duty. Plaintiff’s counsel stated that he would speak
with Plaintiff and try to call the court to request a continuance of jury duty.
Plaintiff’s counsel stated that he would call back if he could not resolve the
jury duty issue. As Plaintiff’s counsel never called back, Defendants’ counsel
reasonably assumed that Plaintiff’s jury duty was continued or that she did not
need to appear/report for jury duty on September 16, 2024, such that Plaintiff
would appear at the IME. (Reply, Heineman Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Further, as
Defendants point out in Reply, Plaintiff surely had more than two days advanced
notice of jury duty and could have relayed unavailability earlier to avoid
expert and translator cancellation fees, but failed to do so. 
Finally,
the Court does not find persuasive Plaintiff’s argument that her failure to
appear at this IME is justified by Defendants’ cancellation or rescheduling of
the four previously set IMEs. (Opposition, pp. 2-3.) Plaintiff cites no legal
authority to establish that prior cancellations of IMEs by the opposing party
justifies the failure to appear at a properly noticed rescheduled IME. In Reply,
Defendants argue that the prior IMEs were justifiably cancelled or rescheduled
by Defendants largely due to issues with Plaintiff’s deposition compliance and
Plaintiff/Plaintiff’s counsel’s unavailability for the IME. (Reply, pp. 2-3.)
Although neither party proffers any evidence to clearly establish the
circumstances surrounding the prior cancellations, the prior cancellations are,
in any event, not relevant to the instant motion.  
Accordingly,
the Court finds the requested no-show fees and attorney fees and costs to be
reasonable. 
IV. CONCLUSION
Accordingly,
the Motion to compel the mental examination of Plaintiff is conditionally
GRANTED, subject to Defendants filing a compliant proposed order specifying the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed, by Monday, December 23, 2024.
Defendants’
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $3,535. Sanctions are awarded
jointly and severally against Plaintiff and her counsel and are to be paid
within 30 days.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 Dated this 19th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 