 Case Number:  23STCV22431    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



IGNACIO FLORES, et al., 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
SILVIA
  JANET FLORES, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV22431
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TRANSFER OF VENUE
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  19, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Silvia Janet Flores       
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed  
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a motor vehicle accident, which allegedly occurred on
or about October 6, 2021. (Compl., ¶ 9.) The complaint alleges that the vehicle
accident occurred on a public highway in the County of Los Angeles. (Compl., ¶
8.) 
On
September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Ignacio Flores and Raquel Reyes (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant Silvia Janet Flores
(“Defendant”) and DOES 1-50, inclusive, alleging a cause of action for
negligence. 
On
November 5, 2024, Defendant, through her counsel, filed and served a motion to
transfer venue. Defendant seeks an order transferring venue of this action to
San Bernardino County Superior Court. 
On
November 25, 2024, the Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing on the
motion from December 5, 2024, to December 19, 2024. (11/25/24 Minute Order.)
Counsel for Plaintiffs was ordered to give notice. (11/25/24 Minute Order.) 
As
of December 17, 2024, the motion is unopposed. Any opposition to the motion was
required to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) The motion was served on
Plaintiffs’ counsel by e-mail. The Court informs Plaintiffs that “[a] failure
to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of a motion.” (Cal.
R. Ct., Rule 8.54(c).) 
          
II.      LEGAL STANDARD
“Except as otherwise provided by law
and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as
provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the defendants
or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court
for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).) “If the
action is for injury to person or personal property . . . or negligence, the
superior court in either the county where the injury occurs or . . . the county
where the defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement of the action,
is a proper court for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd.
(a).) On motion, a court may change the place of trial “[w]hen the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 397,
subd. (a).) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          Defendant’s
counsel, Thomas A. Goodwin, Esq. (“Goodwin”), provides a declaration in support
of the motion.[1]
Mr. Goodwin states the following: this action arises out of an alleged two
vehicle accident which occurred on October 6, 2021, on North Sterling Avenue
near the intersection of Date Place in the City of San Bernardino, County of
San Bernardino, State of California. (Goodwin Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant informed
Mr. Goodwin’s staff that she resided in the City of Highland, California when
Plaintiffs commenced this action and that the incident occurred in the County
of San Bernardino. (Goodwin Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Goodwin indicates that San
Bernardino is the proper venue for this action as Plaintiffs’ injuries occurred
within San Bernardino County and Defendant resided within San Bernardino County
at the time this action was commenced. (Goodwin Decl., ¶ 5.) 
          The Court
finds that venue is proper in San Bernardino County under CCP § 395(a).
Defendant resided within San Bernardino County when this action was commenced.
Additionally, counsel attests that the alleged motor vehicle accident occurred
in San Bernardino County. 
          Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ failure to
oppose the motion is deemed a waiver to all arguments raised therein as
“[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned
argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo
(2009) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Motion for
Transfer of Venue filed by Defendant Silvia Janet Flores is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 19th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


