 Case Number:  23STCV16670    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
MEUNDIES, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ORDERGROOVE, LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV16670
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-defendant’s demurrer to first
  amended cross-complaint




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant MeUndies, Inc. (MeUndies) filed this action against Defendants
Ordergroove, LLC and Ordergroove, Inc. (collectively, Ordergroove), asserting
(1) fraudulent inducement, (2) breach of contract, and (3) declaratory relief. The
complaint stems from the allegation that Ordergroove induced MeUndies into a
contract by falsely representing that Ordergroove’s software could meet
MeUndies’ unique business needs. Ordergroove’s software in fact did not meet
MeUndies’ needs, but Ordergroove nonetheless demanded that MeUndies continue
paying for the software for the duration of the contract, a term of multiple
years. MeUndies brings this lawsuit to set aside the contract and recover
damages. 
            On August 24, 2023, Ordergroove LLC
filed a cross-complaint against MeUndies for (1) breach of contract and (2)
quantum meruit. The operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) was filed on
October 10, 2023. Ordergroove alleges that MeUndies was responsible for
ensuring that its own system was compatible with Ordergroove’s platform and
that Ordergroove was limited to a consultative role. Ordergroove alleges that it
was not required to create a customized platform for MeUndies. The Master
Services Agreement (MSA) between the parties allegedly required MeUndies to pay
between $390,000 and $500,000 per year for access to Ordergroove’s platform. Ordergroove
alleges that it fulfilled its obligation to assist MeUndies in its
implementation of the Ordergroove platform. MeUndies allegedly attempted to
terminate the MSA in a way that violates the termination clause in the MSA.
Then, MeUndies allegedly refused to make further payments. Ordergroove rejected
MeUndies’ demands to recognize the contract as terminated. MeUndies filed this
action shortly after Ordergroove demanded payment of $1.1 million due under the
MSA for the remainder of the service period. 
            On November 7, 2023, MeUndies filed
the instant demurrer against the FACC. Ordergroove filed its opposition on
November 21, 2023. MeUndies filed its reply on November 29, 2023.   
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
 
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that MeUndies has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Harris
Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Reasonable Expectation of Payment
MeUndies demurs to the second cause of
action for quantum meruit. “Quantum meruit refers to the well-established
principle that the law implies a promise to pay for services performed under
circumstances disclosing that they were not gratuitously rendered. To recover
in quantum meruit, a party need not prove the existence of a contract, but it
must show the circumstances were such that the services were rendered under
some understanding or expectation of both parties that compensation therefor
was to be made.” (Huskinson & Brown v. Wolf (2004) 32 Cal.4th 453,
458, internal citations omitted.) 
            Ordergroove seeks to recover in
quantum meruit the value of the services it performed for MeUndies, including additional
services rendered beyond the 100 hours required by the MSA. (See FACC ¶¶ 25, 48-53.)
MeUndies argues that Ordergroove cannot recover compensation for the additional
services because Ordergroove gratuitously provided those services for reasons
other than monetary compensation. MeUndies contends that the allegations in the
cross-complaint admit that Ordergroove’s motive for providing additional
services was to transition from the Implementation Period to the Service Period
as soon as possible so that Ordergroove could begin collecting payment for the
Service Period, and to prevent MeUndies from prematurely leaving the contract. (See
FACC ¶¶ 49-50.)  
            However, the fact that Ordergroove
had these motives for providing the additional services does not preclude Ordergroove
from also expecting payment for the services. It is for the trier of fact to
ultimately determine whether Ordergroove expected payment for the additional
services. It cannot be determined as a matter of law from the pleadings alone
that Ordergroove did not expect payment for the additional services. The
allegations in the cross-complaint support a reasonable inference that
Ordergroove provided services under circumstances where both parties understood
payment was required. (See FACC ¶¶ 48-52 [alleging that Ordergroove expended
significant resources to provide additional services which MeUndies benefitted
from, that Ordergroove “reasonably expected payment,” and that Ordergroove made
“repeated demands for payment”].) “Ordergroove expected to be paid for these services.”
(FACC ¶ 27.) The cross-complaint contains no admission that Ordergroove provided
the additional services gratuitously. 
II.
Contradicting the Contract
            MeUndies argues in reply that seeking
quantum meruit for the additional services contradicts the parties’ contract.
(See Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First Alliance Mortgage Co. (1996) 41
Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420 [“equitable entitlement to a quantum meruit payment is
not implied where the parties have actual contract terms covering payment”].) MeUndies
never made this argument in its moving papers, which only focused on the reasonable
expectation of payment. “In general, points raised for the first time in a
reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would
deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.” (Tellez
v. Rich Voss Trucking, Inc. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 1052, 1066, internal
citations omitted.) 
            Additionally, the argument fails on
the merits. In Hedging, the trial court made “factual findings” that the
parties had a valid contract and that the contract imposed a condition
precedent to payment. (Hedging, supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 1420.)
Having failed to procure the condition precedent, the claimant was not entitled
to recover payment in quantum meruit. (Ibid.) Here, there have been no
factual findings regarding the existence of a contract or whether it imposed a
condition precedent, because the case is merely at the pleading stage. “A
plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent causes of action.” (Gherman
v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 565.) The allegations do not reveal as
a matter of law that the contract imposed a condition precedent to Ordergroove
being paid for the additional services. (See FACC ¶¶ 12-15.) 
CONCLUSION
            MeUndies’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 