  Case Number:  23STCV10814    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
GANT GRIFFIS, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CARTER C. BRAVMANN, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV10814
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 12, 2023, Plaintiffs Gant Griffis
and Antonio Ferreira filed this action against Defendants Carter C. Bravmann,
John M. Koll, WCS Lending LLC, and U.S. Bank NA. The operative First Amended
Complaint, filed September 26, 2023, asserts causes of action for (1) quiet
title, (2) trespass, (3) negligence, (4) nuisance, (5) fraud, and (6)
declaratory and injunctive relief. 
            Plaintiffs are owners of real
property located in Los Angeles. Defendants Bravmann and Koll own a neighboring
house adjacent to Plaintiff’s property. The complaint arises from the
allegation that Defendants built a fence and gate encroaching onto Plaintiff’s
property. Defendants allegedly relied on an inaccurate boundary survey before
building the fence. After Plaintiffs brought up the issue, Defendants allegedly
deceived Plaintiffs into believing that the fence either did not intrude on
Plaintiff’s property or only did so by a few inches. Plaintiffs allege that in
reality, the fence encroaches onto their property by two feet, preventing Plaintiffs’
use of their driveway. 
            On November 1, 2023, Defendants
Bravmann and Koll filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the FAC.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on November 21, 2023. Defendants filed their
reply on November 30, 2023. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Fitzgibbon
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer

Defendants demur to the fifth cause of
action for fraud. “The elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action
for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 974, quoting Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
638.) Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and
conclusory allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30
Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)
a.
Opinion
“Representations
of opinion, particularly involving matters of value, are ordinarily not
actionable representations of fact.” (Graham v. Bank of Am., N.A. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.) There are, however, three
recognized exceptions to the general rule: (1) where a party holds himself out
to be specially qualified and the other party is so situated that he may
reasonably rely upon the former's superior knowledge; (2) where the opinion is
by a fiduciary or other trusted person; (3) where a party states his opinion as
an existing fact or as implying facts which justify a belief in the truth of
the opinion. (Borba v. Thomas (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 144, 152.) 
Here, the FAC alleges
the following misrepresentations: (1) on May 9, 2017, Bravmann told Plaintiffs
in person that “it was impossible for the fence, gate and motor to be
encroaching and that [Plaintiffs’] topographical survey was simply wrong and
that Bravmann had three separate certified surveys showing that the fence, gate
and motor were on the actual boundary” (FAC ¶ 19); on May 10, 2017, Koll stated
that the supposed surveys could not be found and that the companies that
conducted them were out of business (FAC ¶ 20); and (3) on May 13, 2017, Koll
texted Plaintiffs that “[h]e remembers lot lines being more than like 6” rather
than the 12” that the stake marks” (FAC ¶ 20).   
For pleading
purposes, the allegations support a reasonable inference that Defendants made
specific factual representations about the location of the boundary and the existence
of surveys. It is for the trier of fact to determine whether the statements
were actually expressions of opinion. Defendants argue that by May 13, 2017,
they had acknowledged an encroachment and merely expressed their opinion that
the extent of the encroachment was “not a big deal.” (See FAC ¶¶ 20, 62.)
Defendants argue that, as a result, the only operative representation was their
later opinion about the extent of the encroachment. Defendants cite no
authority for the proposition that a later statement negates prior factual
representations. Plaintiffs could have detrimentally relied on Bravmann’s
earlier statement that there was no encroachment even if Defendants eventually admitted
to an encroachment.     
Additionally, Plaintiffs
allege that they relied on Bravmann’s expertise as an architect. (FAC ¶ 19.) Opinions
are actionable where a party holds himself out as specially qualified. (Borba,
supra, 70 Cal.App.3d at p. 152.) It is a factual issue whether Bravmann’s status
as an architect sufficiently brings the representations within this exception.
The FAC has sufficiently pled the exception for demurrer purposes. 
b.
Intent and Knowledge of Falsity
At the pleading
stage, “it is not necessary to allege the circumstantial evidence from which it
may be inferred that the representation or promise was false -- these are
evidentiary matters which give rise to the misrepresentation. The only
essential allegation is the general statement that the representation or
promise was false and that the defendant knew it to be false at the time it was
made.” (Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974) 43
Cal.App.3d 145, 151.) The complaint here contains the necessary allegations.
(See FAC ¶ 64.)
Also, Defendants
allegedly did not want to spend the money to remove the encroaching items. (FAC
¶ 26.) This provides a motive for Defendants to lie about the boundary and
supports a reasonable inference that Defendants knew their statements to be
false and intended for Plaintiff to rely on those statements. 
Defendants argue
that there is no fraudulent intent because they relied on an inaccurate survey
to place the gate structures. (See FAC ¶ 14.) However, the intent behind
placing the gate is distinct from the intent to lie about the boundary
location. For purposes of fraud, the relevant intent is the intent to lie. Defendants’
innocent mistake in placing the gate does not negate their subsequent misrepresentations
about the boundary line. As discussed above, the allegations suggest that Defendants
purposely lied about the boundary because they did not want to spend the money
to fix the mistake. (FAC ¶ 26.) Therefore, the complaint sufficiently alleges
intent and knowledge of falsity. 
c.
Reliance
Reliance is
shown if a misrepresentation “substantially influenced” the plaintiff into an
action that he or she “would probably not have” taken absent the
misrepresentation. (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 1178, 1193.) A plaintiff must also establish that “(1) the matter
was material in the sense that a reasonable person would find it important in
determining how he or she would act . . . and (2) it was reasonable for the
plaintiff to have relied on the misrepresentation.” (Id. at p. 1194.) 
This requires a
factual analysis not suitable for demurrer. For pleading purposes, Plaintiffs
have sufficiently alleged that they were induced into not further investigating
the boundary and delaying their legal options. (FAC ¶¶ 63-66.) 
 
d.
Damages
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs have failed to plead damages resulting from the alleged
misrepresentations because the encroachment was the same both before and after
the misrepresentations. In other words, according to Defendants, nothing changed
as a result of the alleged misrepresentations. However, as discussed above,
Plaintiffs allege that they relied on the misrepresentations to delay
investigation and legal remedies. (FAC ¶¶ 63-66.) Plaintiffs further allege
that this has resulted in “general and special damages in an amount according
to proof at trial.” (Id., ¶ 67.) This is sufficient for pleading
purposes. Whether and how the statements could result in harm are questions for
the trier of fact. 
II. Motion to
Strike
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Id., subd. (c)(3).)
Here, Plaintiffs
have alleged that Defendants intentionally trespassed onto Plaintiffs’ property
despite being on notice of the property boundary (FAC ¶ 43) and then refused to
remedy the trespass because they wanted to save money (id., ¶ 26). This
sufficiently establishes a conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights. Additionally,
the fraud claim constitutes an independent basis for punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is DENIED.  
   