 Case Number:  23GDCV00933    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 12/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00933
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: MARTHA GRIFFITH, an individual; v. HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, a
California Corporation; and DOES 1-10 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Hyundai Motor America
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Martha Griffith
Moving Papers: Motion; Request for Judicial Notice;
Ameripour Declaration; Rao Declaration; Proposed Order
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Griffith Declaration;
Request for Judicial Notice; Schmitt Declaration; Evidentiary Objections; 
Reply Papers: Reply; Ameripour Declaration
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok 
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
Hyundai Motor America (“HMA”) will move, and hereby moves the Court for an
order (i) compelling Plaintiff Martha Griffith to arbitrate her claims in
accordance with her arbitration agreement; and (ii) staying this action pending
the outcome of arbitration.
This motion is authorized by the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), 9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16, California Code of Civil Procedure § 1281 et
seq. and supported by the accompanying Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
Request for Judicial Notice and exhibits thereto, Declaration of Ali Ameripour
and exhibits thereto; Declaration of Vijay Rao and exhibits thereto; any reply
memorandum that HMA may file; all of the records on file in this action; and by
such other written and oral argument as may be presented to the Court.”
(Def. Mot. p. 1-2.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
Martha Griffith, filed the instant action on 5/8/2023 against Defendant,
Hyundai Motor America, a California Corporation.
The Complaint alleges three causes of action for: (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2.
Plaintiff alleges that on or about April 23, 2020,
Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Hyundai Santa Fe. 
Plaintiff further alleges that the subject vehicle was
delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and
developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but
not limited to, transmission, steering, engine, emission, and electrical system
defects.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION
CCP
§1281.2, governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides in pertinent
part:
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)  
The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)  
Grounds
exist for recission of the agreement.
 
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(b).
 
Under
the Federal Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements “shall be valid,
irrevocable and enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of a contract.” 
(9 U.S.C. section 2.) 
 
There
is a strong public policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts
concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of
arbitration. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9
(“courts will ‘indulge every intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’”)
(quotation omitted)). (See also AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)  
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant
here seeks to compel arbitration based on two different documents – (1)
Plaintiff’s Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information (Warranty) and (2)
Hyundai’s Bluelink Connected Services Agreement (CSA).
Bluelink Connected Services Agreement
(CSA)
 As stated in Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC:
 
California law favors enforcement of valid
arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 745, 6 P.3d 669 (Armendariz ); Broughton
v. Cigna Healthplans (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1066, 1074, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 334,
988 P.2d 67.) Because arbitration is a contractual matter, a party who has not
agreed to arbitrate a controversy cannot be compelled to do so. (Grey v.
American Management Services (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 803, 808, 139
Cal.Rptr.3d 210; Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child and Family Services (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1518, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318 (Sparks ).)
When the material facts are undisputed, we determine the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate de novo. (Casas v. Carmax Auto Superstores Cal. LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1235, 169 Cal.Rptr.3d 96 (Casas, hereafter); Sparks, supra, 207
Cal.App.4th at p. 1519, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318.) The party seeking arbitration
bears the initial burden of demonstrating the existence of an arbitration
agreement. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US),
LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 282 P.3d
1217 (Pinnacle ); Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972, 64 Cal.Rptr.2d 843, 938 P.2d
903; Sparks, supra, 207 Cal.App.4th at p. 1518,
145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318.) Once the moving party has satisfied its burden,
the litigant opposing arbitration must demonstrate grounds which require
that the agreement to arbitrate not be enforced. (Pinnacle, supra, 55
Cal.4th at p. 236, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 282 P.3d 1217; Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc., supra, 15 Cal.4th at p.
972, 64 Cal.Rptr.2d 843, 938 P.2d 903; Sparks, supra, 207
Cal.App.4th at p. 1518, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318.)
 
(Harris v. TAP Worldwide,
LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 380-81.)


Here, Defendant has met its burden in demonstrating
the existence of an arbitration agreement.
 
Defendant submitted the declaration of Vijay Rao which
states:
 
1. I am over the age of eighteen and am
competent to make this declaration. I am the Director of Connected Ops &
Owner Apps/Web, for Hyundai Motor America Corporation (“Hyundai”). I have held
this position since January 10, 2022. I have held positions at Hyundai since
April 24, 2017. Between April 24, 2017 and January 09, 2022, I was a Sr. Group
Mgr. Digital Bus. & Connected Ops. In my capacity as Director of Connected
Ops & Owner Apps/Web, I administer business activities and processes relating
to the Hyundai Bluelink services for Hyundai vehicles. Except as otherwise
stated, the facts stated in this declaration are of my own personal knowledge, including
knowledge acquired in the course and scope of my job responsibilities and
through the review of pertinent documents maintained and relied upon in the
ordinary course of business by Hyundai and its affiliated entities.
 
2. I understand this action involves a
2020 Hyundai Santa Fe, with VIN No. 5NMS33AD0LH202697 (“Vehicle”), purchased by
Martha Griffith (“Plaintiff”), on April 23, 2020. 
 
3. Hyundai Bluelink services refers to a
connected car system that includes various functions and features. 
 
4. To enroll in Bluelink services,
customers must agree to the then-effective Connected Services Agreement
(“CSA”). Hyundai makes a copy of the CSA available to every customer who
enrolls in the Bluelink services plan. The CSA is often called the “Terms and
Conditions” or “Terms & Conditions.” 
 
5. On April 23, 2020 Plaintiff enrolled
their Vehicle in Bluelink service through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment
process. 
 
6. When new Bluelink services enrollees
like Plaintiff activates Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted
Enrollment process, they agree to the then-effective CSA. An example screen
capture that reflects the content and general layout that Plaintiffs would have
seen when they activated Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted
Enrollment process on April 23, 2020 is attached as Exhibit 1. To enroll,
Plaintiff would have had to click the box to acknowledge that they “read and
agree[d] to the Blue Link Terms & Conditions” and then click the “Complete”
button. The phrase Terms & Conditions included a hyperlink to the
then-effective CSA. As presented to Plaintiff, the box acknowledging the Terms
& Conditions would not have been “prepopulated” with a check mark.
Plaintiffs would have had to click that box to acknowledge assent to the CSA. A
customer cannot successfully activate Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted
Enrollment process unless they complete the step requiring them to click the
box acknowledging they agree to the Bluelink Terms and Conditions. Attached
hereto as Exhibit 2 is a true and correct copy of the CSA that was in effect at
that time.
 
(Rao Decl. ¶¶ 1-6.)
 
Exhibit 2 in the Rao declaration is the Connected
Services Agreement that contains the arbitration provision at issue in this
case.
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to establish
mutual assent. Plaintiff argues:
 
Here, Defendant has failed to establish
mutual assent. While Defendant submits the declaration of Vijay Rao, the
Director of Ops & Owner Apps/Web for Hyundai, Mr. Rao merely describes the
process by which customers “like Plaintiff” agree to the BlueLink “Connected
Services Agreement” (“CSA”) upon enrolling their vehicle in Bluelink service.
(Rao Dec., ¶¶ 4, 6.) Exhibit 1 is purportedly the acknowledgment checkbox
screen that Plaintiff “would have seen when they activated Bluelink services”
and Exhibit 2 is the Bluelink Agreement “that was in effect at that time.” (Rao
Dec., ¶ 6, Exs. 1, 2.) These documents are generic and not specific to
Plaintiff, and thus do not establish that they apply to Plaintiff.
Additionally, Defendant has not shown Plaintiff actually checked the box, or
otherwise “signed” or agreed to the CSA. While Mr. Rao claims that “Plaintiff
enrolled their Vehicle in Bluelink service through the Dealer-Assisted
Enrollment process,” this statement completely lacks foundation because Mr. Rao
was not involved in the process at all. To that end, Mr. Rao does not state he
has personal knowledge that Plaintiff enrolled in the Bluelink service, nor
does he attach or refer to any documents upon which he relied in making this
assertion.
 
Moreover, Mr. Rao does not state, for
example, that all purchasers of Hyundai vehicles must enroll in the Bluelink
Agreement, or otherwise explain how he knows Plaintiff enrolled in the Bluelink
service. Indeed, Exhibit 1 attached to Mr. Rao’s declaration, entitled
“Complimentary Subscription,” states: “Your Hyundai includes 3 years of
complimentary Blue Link services which offers a suite of safety and convenience
features. This subscription includes the Connected Care, Remote and Guidance
packages.” (See Rao Dec., Ex. 1.) Thus, all this shows is that the subscription
is voluntary or optional, not that Plaintiff agreed to the terms and conditions
of the CSA, including the arbitration provision.
 
(Pl. Oppo. p. 12-13.)
 
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument availing
because although Plaintiff tries to argue there was no mutual assent, the crux
of Plaintiff’s argument is that Defendant did not properly authenticate the
arbitration agreement because Rao’s declaration lacked foundation and personal
knowledge. 
 
As stated in Condee:
 
For purposes of a petition to compel
arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document
authentication. “[T]he court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists....” (§ 1281.2) The statute does not require the
petitioner to introduce the agreement into evidence. A plain reading of the
statute indicates that as a preliminary matter the court is only required to
make a finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination
of its validity.
 
(Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 21, 218-19.)
 
To the extent that Plaintiff is attacking mutual
assent, Plaintiff’s argument is unavailing. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has
not shown that Plaintiff actually checked the box to establish that Plaintiff
agreed to the CSA. 
 
There are two issues that are problematic with
Plaintiff’s argument that she did not check the box agreeing to the CSA. The
first is that in ¶ 5 of the declaration Rao states that Plaintiff did enroll in
the Bluelink service through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process, and Rao
states in ¶ 6 the process by which Plaintiff would have had to have enrolled.
The second, and most importantly, is that Plaintiff’s declaration in Opposition
does not contend that she did not check the box agreeing to the terms of the
CSA. In light of the fact that the Rao declaration states that Plaintiff did in
fact enroll, and that Plaintiff ‘s declaration in Opposition did not state that
she did not in fact enroll, the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument that she did
not assent to the CSA unavailing. 
 
As stated in Weeks v. Interactive Life Forms, LLC:
 
Courts have generally enforced agreements
to arbitrate formed via “clickwrap,”2 where “ ‘an internet user
accepts a website's terms of use by clicking an “I agree” or “I accept”
button, with a link to the agreement readily available.’ ” (Id. at
p. 463, 289 Cal.Rptr.3d 1.) Clickwrap agreements have been held to manifest
assent, even on consumers who did not read them, because “the website [has]
put[ ] the consumer on constructive notice of the contractual terms.” (Id. at
p. 461, 289 Cal.Rptr.3d 1; accord, Lemley, Terms of Use (2006)
91 Minn. L. Rev. 459, 466 [“Because the user has ‘signed’ the contract by
clicking ‘I agree,’ every court to consider the issue has held clickwrap
licenses enforceable.” (Fns. omitted.)].)
 
(Weeks v. Interactive Life Forms, LLC (2024)
100 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1084-85; Fn. 2 states, “Clickwrap and browsewrap
agreements derive their name by analogy from “ ‘shrink-wrap licenses’ ” in
which companies selling software at brick-and-mortar retailers sought to bind
customers to terms of use by placing notice of a license agreement on the
software's packaging, though “ ‘the entire agreement [could] only be viewed
after buying the product and breaking through the plastic shrink-wrap
packaging.’ ” (Sellers, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th at p. 463, 289 Cal.Rptr.3d
1.)”)
 
Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration clause in
the CSA does not apply to Plaintiff’s claims in the Complaint.
 
The Arbitration Agreement provides in relevant part:
 
MOST CUSTOMER CONCERNS CAN BE RESOLVED
QUICKLY AND TO THE CUSTOMER'S SATISFACTION BY CONTACTING HYUNDAI’S CUSTOMER
SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT CONSUMERAFFAIRS@HMAUSA.COM OR CALLING 800-633-5151 AND
THE GENESIS CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT CUSTOMERCARE@GENESISMOTORSUSA.COM OR
CALLING 844-340-9741. IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT THAT THE APPROPRIATE CUSTOMER
SERVICE DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO RESOLVE YOUR CONCERNS, WE EACH AGREE TO RESOLVE
THOSE DISPUTES THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION OR SMALL CLAIMS COURT INSTEAD OF IN
COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AND
SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. ARBITRATION IS MORE INFORMAL THAN A
LAWSUIT IN COURT. ARBITRATION USES A NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR INSTEAD OF A JUDGE OR
JURY, ALLOWS FOR MORE LIMITED DISCOVERY THAN IN COURT, AND IS SUBJECT TO VERY
LIMITED REVIEW BY COURTS. ARBITRATORS CAN AWARD THE SAME DAMAGES AND RELIEF
THAT A COURT CAN AWARD. ANY ARBITRATION UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL TAKE PLACE ON
AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW; CLASS ARBITRATIONS,
CLASS ACTIONS OR REPRESENTATIVE ARBITRATIONS ARE NOT PERMITTED. HYUNDAI OR
GENESIS WILL PAY ALL ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF THE ARBITRATOR, NO MATTER WHO
WINS, SO LONG AS YOUR CLAIM IS NOT FRIVOLOUS OR BROUGHT IN BAD FAITH. HOWEVER,
IN ARBITRATION, BOTH YOU AND HYUNDAI WILL BE ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEYS´
FEES FROM THE OTHER PARTY TO THE SAME EXTENT AS YOU WOULD BE IN COURT.
 
Arbitration Agreement:
 
(a) Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any
and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, your
Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase,
enroll in or seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or
Customer, via the sites or through mobile application, except any disputes or
claims which under governing law are not subject to arbitration, to the maximum
extent permitted by applicable law. This agreement to arbitrate is intended to
be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us subject
to arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. However, any dispute you
or we may have relating to copyrights or other intellectual property shall not
be governed by this agreement to arbitrate. For the avoidance of doubt, this
means that any claims you or we may have relating to intellectual property
rights against the other, including injunctive and other relief sought, may be
brought in a court of competent jurisdiction. The agreement to arbitrate
otherwise includes, but is not limited to:
 
claims based in contract, tort, warranty,
statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory; claims that arose
before this or any prior Agreement (including, but not limited to, claims
relating to advertising); claims that are currently the subject of purported
class action litigation in which you are not a member of a certified class;
claims relating to your vehicle for which you seek product or service support
via the sites; claims arising out of or relating to the Telephone Consumer
Protection Act; claims relating to your data privacy or information security;
and claims that may arise after the termination of this Agreement.
 
(Rao Decl. Ex. 2.)
 
Plaintiff specifically argues that the inclusion of
“your Vehicle” in the arbitration clause does not support any argument that the
parties reasonably intended such arbitration would govern warrantable defects. Plaintiff
argues that if Defendant had, there would be no reason to include any of the
other categories of disputes that would be subject to arbitration as they would
be nothing more than surplusage, which courts avoid.
 
Plaintiff argues that the CSA applies only to concerns
that relate to the “Connected Services” that are the subject of the agreement
and that Defendant’s customer service departments are unable to resolve. 
 
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s arguments
availing. 
 
There is a strong public policy in favor of
arbitration of disputes and any doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable
disputes should be resolved in favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh v. Heily
& Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9 (“courts will ‘indulge every intendment
to give effect to such proceedings.’”) (quotation omitted)). (See also AT&T
Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)  
 
Here, the arbitration provision is written broadly and
includes “claims based in contract, tort, warranty, statute…”
 
Further, the agreement contains a clause that states,
“This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make
all disputes and claims between us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent
permitted by law.”
 
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues that the CSA is unconscionable.
 
As stated in Fisher v. MoneyGram Intern., Inc.:
 
“ ‘ “Unconscionability” ’ ” is commonly
defined as “ ‘ “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the
parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the
other party.” ’ ” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
899, 910, 190 Cal.Rptr.3d 812, 353 P.3d 741 (Sanchez).)
Unconscionability, as the definition suggests, has both a procedural and a
substantive element, the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results. (Carlson
v. Home Team Pest Defense, Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 619, 630, 191
Cal.Rptr.3d 29 (Carlson).) “ ‘ “The prevailing view is that
[procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order
for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.” ’ ” (Ibid.) But they
need not be present in equal parts. (Ibid.) Rather, California courts
employ a sliding scale to determine unconscionability, the more substantively
oppressive the contract terms, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to conclude the terms are unenforceable, and vice
versa. (Ibid.; see Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 745, 6 P.3d
669 (Armendariz).)
 
(Fisher v. MoneyGram Intern., Inc. (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 1084, 1093.)
 
Procedural
With
respect to procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff argues that the CSA was a
pre-printed contract of adhesion which Plaintiff would have no ability or
opportunity to negotiate, that the CSA was the epitome of a “take it or leave
it basis.”
 
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s arguments on
procedural unconscionability availing. 
 
The mere
fact an adhesion contract is involved does not per se render the
arbitration provision unenforceable because such contracts are “an
inevitable fact of life for all citizens—businessman and consumer alike.” 
(Graham v. Scissor-Tail, Inc.¿(1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues the CSA was the epitome of a “take it or leave it basis;” however,
plaintiff then goes on to state, “[S]he had but one choice: click the check box
on her smartphone’s app (which linked to a terms and condition sheet that is
approximately sixteen (16) pages long), or do not. This “decision” was actually
not really a decision at all, and certainly lacked any meaningful choice given
that, with the sale of the new vehicle, Defendant was offering “3 years of
complimentary Blue Link services which offers a suite of safety and convenience
features.”” (Oppo. p. 16.)
 
The Court
does not find Plaintiff’s argument that she had only but one choice availing
because Plaintiff did not have to click the box.  
 
Further,
Plaintiff’s argument that the terms of the arbitration provision in the CSA were
hidden is also unavailing. 
 
Substantive
Plaintiff
appears to argue that the arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable
because requiring arbitration of warranty claims is one-sided in favor of
Defendant because there is no possibility that Defendant has any warranty
rights against Plaintiff. 
 
This argument is unavailing. This argument only
focuses on the word “warranty,” and ignores the fact that both parties agreed
to arbitrate any and all disputes relating to a broad range of other types of
claims such as contract, tort, statute, and fraud.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration provision
is unconscionable because Defendant would be able to recover attorneys’ fees to
the same extent that Plaintiff would be able to recover them. Plaintiff appears
to be arguing that under the Song-Beverly Act, only a buyer who prevails would
be able to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees. 
 
As a preliminary, the Court fails to understand
Plaintiff’s reasoning that it would be unfair for Defendant to recover
attorneys’ fees to the same extent Plaintiff would be able to. In fact,
allowing Defendant to recover attorneys’ fees should Defendant prevail seems to
be the definition of fair if Plaintiff is allowed to do the same thing. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff cites the following from the
CSA, ““HOWEVER, IN ARBITRATION, BOTH YOU AND HYUNDAI WILL BE ENTITLED TO
RECOVER ATTORNEYS’ FEES FROM THE OTHER PARTY TO THE SAME EXTENT AS YOU WOULD BE
IN COURT.”
 
Therefore, if Plaintiff is arguing that Defendant
would not be able to recover attorneys’ fees as the prevailing party in Court,
Plaintiff’s citation appears to contradict Plaintiff’s argument that
arbitration would be unfair with respect to attorneys’ fees since the citation
qualifies the attorneys’ fees provision with “to the same extent as you would
be in court.” 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that the reduction of time from a
four-year statute of limitations to a one-year statute of limitations is
unconscionable is unavailing. Plaintiff cites Fisher v. MoneyGram
International, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1084, 1105 to argue that
reduction of a four-year statute of limitation down to a one-year limitation is
substantively unconscionable. 
 
The Court does not find this argument availing in
light of the fact that in Fisher there were also several other additional
factors that the court found contributed to substantive unconscionability. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration and staying this action pending the outcome of
arbitration is GRANTED. The Court notes it did not rule on the issue of the
arbitrability of the Warranty based on the fact that the CSA provided a grounds
to compel arbitration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 