  Case Number:  23GDCV00385    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 12/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV00385
Trial Date: 02/10/2025
Case Name: FRANCISCO M. PEREZ, an individual; and JOHN C. PEREZ, an individual
v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware Corporation, and DOES 1-10, inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER Res ID 7942
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
“Plaintiffs
FRANCISCO M. PEREZ and JOHN C. PEREZ (“Plaintiffs”) will, and hereby do, move
for an order to strike Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY´s (“Defendant”) objections
and compel further responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of
Documents, Set Two, Request Nos. 2, and 4 through 83 (collectively, the
“RFPs”).
Plaintiffs bring this Motion pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.310, and 2031.320, on the grounds that
Defendant waived its objections and failed to provide adequate responses to
Plaintiffs’ RFPs, which seek documents relevant to the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“SBA”) causes of action.
…
On or about August 13, 2024, Plaintiffs propounded
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, on Defendant seeking documents
relating to: (1) Defendant’s Policies and Procedures for Handling Song-Beverly
Cases and the Subject Vehicle (Request Nos. 1-28); (2) Defendant´s Internal
Knowledge and Investigations (Request Nos. 29-49); (3) Defendant’s Summaries
and Memoranda of Internal Documents (Request Nos. 50-60); (4) Defendant’s
Communication with Government Agencies and Suppliers (Request Nos. 61-71); and
(5) Defendant’s
Other Relevant Documents associated to Plaintiffs’ claims under the SBA
(Request Nos. 72-83).
Defendant responded to Plaintiffs’ requests with
boilerplate objections that are not compliant with the California Code of
Civil Procedure nor California case law. Moreover, Defendant failed to
produce many of the responsive documents requested.
In an effort to avoid motion practice, Plaintiffs
attempted to meet and confer in good faith, sending two (2) detailed Meet
and Confer letters to Defendant´s counsel. Defendant, however, has yet to
adequately respond to Plaintiffs´ meet and confer efforts. Given Defendant’s
failure to adequately supplement its responses and produce all relevant
documents, Plaintiffs now seek this Court’s intervention.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs seek an order striking
Defendant’s meritless objections and compelling further responses and
production of all responsive documents within ten (10) calendar days from entry
of this Court’s Order as to Plaintiffs´ Request for Production of Documents,
Set Two, Request Nos. 2, and 4 through 83.
This Motion is based upon this Notice, the following
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Separate Statement, the Declaration
of Gregory Sogoyan, Esq., the papers on file, and upon any other matter that
may be presented to the Court at the hearing.”
(Pl. Not. p. 2-3, bold and italics in original.)
Preliminary Procedural
Moving
Party: Plaintiffs, Francisco M. Perez and John C. Perez (Plaintiffs or Movants)
Responding Party: Defendant, Ford Motor Company (Defendant)
16/21 Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b)): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement;
Proposed Order; Sogoyan Declaration; 
Opposition Papers: Opposition; John Isaac Southerland
Declaration; Separate Statement
Reply Papers: Reply; Sogoyan Declaration; 
BACKGROUND
On
2/24/2023, Plaintiffs, Francisco M. Perez and John C. Perez, filed the instant
action against Defendant, Ford Motor Company, alleging three causes of action
for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation
of the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2.
The instant action pertains to Plaintiffs’ March 16,
2021 purchase of a 2020 Ford Mustang.
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section specifically provides that
“[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition
and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete.
  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)   An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  
 
(CCP
§ 2031.310(a).)
 
Under
CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
45-Day Requirement
Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) 
Here, neither party addresses the 45-day requirement. This
motion is timely. 
Meet and Confer
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel met and conferred. (See Sogoyan
Decl. ¶¶ 18-19.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to RFP, Set Two, numbers 2, 4-30, 32-49, and 52-83 is GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to provide code compliant responses without objections. 
As to requests
numbered 31 and 50-51, Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED. The Court fails to
understand Plaintiffs’ good-cause arguments, and Plaintiffs have the burden to
establish good cause. The requests are overly broad and not limited in time and
scope, nor are they limited to vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the subject vehicle.
To the
extent that Plaintiffs’ motion is requesting actual production of documents, the
Court will hear argument as to if that is even before this Court, or if
Plaintiffs have to file a motion to compel compliance under § 2031.320. The
Court brings this up because the Court here is compelling further responses,
and wouldn’t Defendant first need to provide further responses for Plaintiffs
to know what even needs to be produced based on the further responses?
Plaintiffs
did not request sanctions. 
Defendant’s
Opposition requested sanctions in the amount of $2,820.00. 
Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in
favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).) 
The Court
will hear argument. The Court is unlikely to grant Defendant’s request for
sanctions because Plaintiffs’ motion was predominantly successful with the
exception of RFPs 31 and 50-51. Further, neither Defendant’s caption nor
Defendant’s notice page indicates that Defendant is requesting sanctions. Defendant’s
sanctions request is buried in the penultimate paragraph of the opposition.
 
 