 Case Number:  23STCV16753    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  30 V.S. FLORES PEREZ, et al. vs PROYECTO PASTORAL, et al.Demurrer with Motion to StrikeTENTATIVEDemurrer is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend within 20 days of issuance of this Order.  Motion to Strike is DENIED.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONIntentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Cause of Action (Third)Defendant argues that this cause of action fails because it only states conclusory allegations and does not provide any factual support for an IIED claim. While it states that the conduct was outrageous, it fails to specify what conduct or incident, other than placing tape on V.S.’s hands. The complaint does not state how the tape was on V.S.’s hands or who placed it. Moreover, the Complaint does not contain sufficient facts to support liability under a theory of respondeat superior.Plaintiffs argue that the Complaint sufficiently alleges a cause of action for IIED. The Complaint alleges that the “child abuse conduct was outrageous, despicable, cruel, unlawful, and constituted inhumane corporal punishment.” (Opp. 6: 27-28.) Additionally, the Complaint alleges that Defendants acted with reckless disregard that Plaintiffs would suffer distress, as well as the remaining to elements for suffering emotional distress and proximate cause. (Opp. 7: 4-9; Comp ¶¶ 21, 37-39, 43-46.) Intentional infliction of emotional distress requires the Plaintiff to show “(1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160). Generally, conduct will be found to be actionable where the recitation of the facts to an average member of the community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to exclaim, “Outrageous!” (Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 120, 130.) Although emotional distress may consist of any highly unpleasant mental reaction such as fright, grief, shame, humiliation, embarrassment, anger, chagrin, disappointment or worry [citation], to make out a claim, the plaintiff must prove that emotional distress was severe and not trivial or transient.” (Wong v. Tai Jing (2010) 189 Cal. App. 4th 1354, 1376.) Such distress must be “of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized society should be expected to endure it.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 965, 1004.)After a review of the complaint, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to sufficiently allege a cause of action for IIED. The conduct – taping a two-year old’s hands – as alleged would be considered outrageous. However, the complaint only contains conclusory allegations about the remaining elements for an IIED claim. There are no specific facts as to how defendant’s intended to cause distress. Additionally, as indicated in Wong and Potter, the emotional distress must be severe. Here, paragraph 40 merely states that Plaintiffs suffered damages, including physical, phycological, and emotional injuries.” (Comp. ¶ 40.) This is insufficient for a claim for IIED.2. Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress Cause of Action (Fourth)While Defendant assumes that Plaintiff is alleging a claim for bystander theory of liability, the Complaint still fails to allege facts that would allow a bystander theory of liability. The Complaint does not indicate that Plaintiff Silvia Perez was present at the time of the event, only that she witnessed Plaintiff V.S.’s wrists in tape when she picked her up. (Demurrer 11: 7-15.) Plaintiffs argue that the fourth cause of action is sufficient for Plaintiff Perez to claim a damages for NIED. Defendant’s conduct caused injury to Plaintiff V.S. This was witnessed by Plaintiff Perez when she arrived to pick up her daughter.A “negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort but the tort of negligence....’ [Citation.] ‘The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.’” (Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729). “In the absence of physical injury or impact to the plaintiff himself, damages for emotional distress should be recoverable only if the plaintiff: (1) is closely related to the injury victim, (2) is present at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs and is then aware that it is causing injury to the victim and, (3) as a result suffers emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness.” (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073).After reviewing the Complaint, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged a cause of action for NIED. First, Plaintiff Silvia Perez is V.S.’s mother. Second, Plaintiff Perez walked in and witnessed Plaintiff V.S.’s hands bound with tape. Specifically, in Ko v. Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc.,, the Court of Appeal discussed the requirement of experiencing a contemporary sensory awareness of the infliction by defendants and injuries suffered by the relative. Ko stated, “[t]he impact of personally observing the injury-producing event ... distinguishes the plaintiff's resultant emotional distress from the emotion felt when one learns of the injury or death of a loved one from another, or observes pain and suffering but not the traumatic cause of the injury.” Ko v. Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 1144, 1157.) Here, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff Silvia Perez walked in to see Plaintiff V.S.’s hands taped. Thus, Plaintiff Perez witnessed her daughter crying as a result of her hands being bound. Although she was not present when the initial taping began, she was able to perceive the conduct and the later emotional distress. Had Plaintiff Perez been informed of the conduct later, but failed to witness her daughter’s hands taped, a claim for NIED would not be viable.While the first two elements have been satisfied, the Court finds that the third element – a person suffers “emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterred witness” – has not been satisfied. The complaint merely contains conclusory allegations that the conduct caused Plaintiffs severe emotional distress. Like above, this is insufficient for an NIED cause of action.Uncertain ComplaintThe Court also notes that Plaintiffs do not designate which cause of action is for which plaintiff. Moreover, the first three causes of action – battery, negligence, and IIED – are not suitable against Plaintiff Silvia Perez. For example, Plaintiff V.S. is alleged to have been bound with tape, not Plaintiff Silvia Perez. Thus, Plaintiff Silvia Perez would not have standing to assert a claim for battery. Thus, because the Complaint fails to delineate which Plaintiff corresponds to which specific cause of action, the Court finds that Complaint uncertain.Motion to StrikeGiven that the Court is sustaining the demurrer. It denies the motion to strike.  Punitive Damages would be available for these causes of action. Leave to AmendLeave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect. (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.) The Plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The Court finds that the Plaintiffs may be able to amend the complaint to cure the defects discussed.