  Case Number:  23SMCV03162    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Wetzel v. Board of Trustees of the
California State University, Case No. 23SMCV03162
Hearing Date: January 10, 2024
Defendant Board of Trustees of the
California State University’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike Portion of the First Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiff Wetzel alleges she paid
Defendant Board of Trustees of the California State University $10,600 for a
certificate program represented as necessary for certification by the
California Department of Consumer Affairs to become a speech language pathologist
assistant. Plaintiff alleges she learned the program does not enable her to
become a speech language pathologist assistant. Defendant demurs and moves to
strike the requested attorney’s fees.
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract (Express)
To
prevail on breach of contract claim, plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage. Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186. “Where a written instrument is the
foundation of a cause of action, it may be pleaded in haec verba by
attaching a copy as an exhibit and incorporating it by proper reference.” Miles v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
394, 402. “In
an action based on a written contract, a plaintiff may plead the legal effect
of the contract rather than its precise language.” Construction Protective Services,
Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.
 
A
complaint is subject to demurrer if, “[i]n an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct.” Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g). The FAC
does not clearly allege whether the contract is oral, written or implied by
conduct. 
 
Plaintiff refers both to written documents (see FAC
at ¶38) and specific conduct (see FAC at ¶¶ 22-23). No written agreement is
attached, nor does the FAC quote any terms or sufficiently allege the legal
effect of any such written agreement. See FAC at ¶¶35-51. The FAC fails to
clearly allege whether the contract is oral, written or implied. SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract (Implied in Fact)
Defendant
demurs on the same grounds, and this cause of action fails for the same
reasons. Labeling the first cause of action “breach of contract (express)” and
the second “breach of contract (implied in fact)” supports a finding that it
cannot be ascertained whether the contract is oral, written or implied.
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment/Quasi-Contract
(Implied in Law) and Fourth Cause of Action: Conversion
Plaintiff
concedes the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to state the third cause of
action for unjust enrichment/quasi contract (implied in law) and the fourth
cause of action for conversion and agrees to dismiss those causes of action.
MOOT as to the third and fourth causes of action
 
Motion to Strike Attorney’s Fees
Defendant moves to strike; this is
MOOT, as the court sustains the demurrer as to the contract claims, and
plaintiff dismisses the others.