  Case Number:  24STCV17385    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WHITTWOOD, LLC, a California limited liability company; 14 WEST,
  L.P., a California limited partnership,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
WEST COAST DENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES, LLC, a California
  limited liability company, d/b/a WEST COAST SERVICES, INC., f/k/a FRONTIER
  DENTAL MANAGEMENT; and DOES 1-20, inclusive 
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV17385
 Hearing Date:   September
  30, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set. 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
  Proceedings [CRS # 6559]



 
I. Background
On November 23, 2005, Plaintiffs
Whittwood, LLC and 14 West, LP and Defendant West Coast Dental Administrative
Services, LLC’s predecessor in interest, Frontier Dental Management, entered
into a lease agreement for Frontier to lease property located at 5160 Whittier
Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA, 90022 (the Property). 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a Complaint against West Coast Dental alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
(3) Violations of Cal. Business and Professions Code § 17200, et. seq.; (4) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (5) Intentional
Interference with Contract.
On August 15, 2024, West Coast
Dental filed a Cross-Complaint alleging cause of action for (1) Declaratory
Relief and (2) Breach of Contract. 
            Both the
Complaint and the Cross-Complaint arise from various allegations that the other
party breached the terms of the lease agreement. 
            On August
14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and stay
proceedings. 
            On
September 5, 2024, West Coast Dental opposed the motion. On September 11, 2024,
Plaintiffs replied. 
At the initial hearing, the Court noted
that both sides seemed to agree that some claims were to be excluded from
arbitration, and ordered the parties to 
meet and confer to see if they could resolve by stipulation which claims
are to be arbitrated, and which claims should not be arbitrated. The parties
each submitted declarations on September 25, 2024, but failed to reach
agreement. Accordingly, the Court will rule on the underlying motion. The
Plaintiffs’ motion is now before the Court. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This
is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the
court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other
required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph
that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a
copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and
incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving
party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)
On a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the
petition unless it finds either (1) no written
agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has been
waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is
pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting¿rulings on common issues. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2; see¿Condee¿v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001)
88 Cal.App.4th¿215,¿218-19.)
B. Analysis
Plaintiffs present a valid
arbitration agreement and evidence that West Coast Dental refuses to arbitrate.
(Gruenbaum Decl. Ex. 1 [Lease Agreement including the Arbitration Agreement];
Gold Decl. ¶6, Ex. 5 [evidencing West Coast Dental’s refusal to arbitrate].) West
Coast Dental does not dispute the existence or validity of the Arbitration Agreement
but argues that the Arbitration Agreement excludes certain matters from
arbitration and that each of the Plaintiffs’ causes of action fall under one or
more of those exclusions. 
The relevant portions of the
Arbitration Agreements are as follows: 
A.   
ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES: Except as provided in
Paragraph B below, the Parties agree to resolve any and all claims, disputes or
disagreements arising under this Lease, including but not limited to any matter
relating to Lessor’s failure to approve an assignment, sublease or other
transfer of Lessee’s interest in the Lease under paragraph 12 of the Lease, and
other defaults by Lessor, or any defaults by Lessee by and through arbitration
as provided below and irrevocably waive any and all rights to the contrary. The
Parties agree to at all times conduct themselves in strict, full, complete and
timely accordance with the terms hereof and any attempt to circumvent the terms
of this Arbitration Agreement shall be absolutely null and void and of no force
or effect whatsoever.
B.   
DISPUTES EXCLUDED FROM ARBITRATION: The following
claims, disputes or disagreements under this Lease are expressly excluded from
the arbitration procedures set forth herein: 1. Disputes for which a different
resolution determination is specifically set forth in this Lease, 2. All claims
by either party which (a) seek anything other than enforcement or determination
of rights under the Lease, or (b) are primarily founded upon matters of fraud,
willful misconduct, bad faith or any other allegations of tortious action, and
seek the award of punitive or exemplary damages, 3. Claims relating to (a)
Lessor’s exercise of any unlawful detainer rights pursuant to applicable law or
(b) rights or remedies used by Lessor to gain possession of the Premises or
terminate Lessee’s right of possession to the Premises, all of which disputes
shall be resolved by suit filed in the applicable court of jurisdiction, the
decision of which court shall be subject to appeal pursuant to applicable law
and 4. All claims arising under Paragraph 39 of this Lease, which disputes
shall be resolved by the specific dispute resolution procedure provided in
Paragraph 39 to the extent that such disputes concern solely the determination
of rent.
(Gruenberg Decl. ISO Mot., Exh. 1, ¶ 61.)
            Plaintiffs
have repeatedly stated that they are only seeking to compel into arbitration
those claims that do not fall into the exclusions. (Mot., p. 5:26-27, Reply, pp.
3:22 – 4:11.)
Here, the first and second of Plaintiffs’
causes of action in the Complaint facially arise from disputes or disagreements
arising under the lease agreement. However, the third, fourth and fifth claims facially
appear to fall within the exclusion. Similarly, the second cause of action for
breach of contract in the cross-complaint appears to be based on the lease containing
the arbitration agreement. “The function of the court is very limited when the
parties have agreed to submit all questions of contract interpretation to the
arbitrator. It is confined to ascertaining whether the party seeking
arbitration is making a claim which on its face is governed by the contract.” (City
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2013) 56 Cal.4th 1086, 1093.) 
West Coast Dental does not allege
that no arbitration agreement exists, that either party has waived the right to
compel arbitration, that grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or that
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary. Thus, West
Coast Dental has not shown that a valid defense against arbitration exists. Rather,
West Coast Dental argues that Plaintiffs are exclusively seeking types of
relief that fall under the "Disputes Excluded from Arbitration"
section, or that in the alternative, this Court should make the decision as to
which claims are arbitrable and which are not.
The parties cite different cases to
support their claims that either this Court, or the arbitrator, should decide
which claims are arbitrable. 
First, the arbitration agreement provides
that the arbitration will be conducted by Alternative Dispute Resolution
Services (ADRS.) (Gruenberg Decl. ISO Mot., Exh. 1, ¶ 61 subd. (c).)
Under the ADRS rules, unless the
issue of arbitrability has been previously determined by the court, the
arbitrator shall have the power to rule on his or her own jurisdiction,
including any objections with respect to the scope of the arbitration
agreement. (Gold Decl. ISO Mot., Exh.7, ¶ 8.) 
State and federal courts have held
that parties may clearly and unmistakably agree to delegate arbitrability
decisions to the arbitrator by incorporating the arbitration rules of a dispute
resolution provider into an agreement. (Mondragon v. Sunrun, Inc. (2024)
101 Cal.App.5th 592, 604 [citing cases].) That case went on to note, however,
the existence of other cases in which that rule does not apply, such as cases
involving unsophisticated parties like hourly employees and consumers. (Id. at
604-605.)
This case does not involve an
unsophisticated party. Rather, this is a dispute regarding a 10-year commercial
lease, in which the commercial tenant opposing arbitration has filed a
Cross-Complaint naming both the plaintiff and a third party as cross-defendants.
Thus, the cases cited in Mondragon generally upholding the parties’
right to delegate the authority to determine arbitratrability applies. 
This Court thus concludes that since
the complaint’s two contractual claims, as well as the cross-complaint’s claim
for breach of contract, facially arise out of the contract containing the
arbitration agreement, it is appropriate to compel such claims into arbitration.
The remaining causes of action will be stayed pending arbitration. However, the
arbitrator retains jurisdiction to make further orders regarding the scope of
the arbitration, as per the arbitration agreement and the ADRS rules.
Accordingly, the Plaintiffs’ motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.
III. Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is GRANTED.
The
Court STAYS the instant proceedings “until an arbitration is had in accordance
with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies,”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4), and will set an OSC re: completion of arbitration
in approximately 12 months. 