 Case Number:  24STCV00120    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  29 Panning v. Plascencia
24STCV00120
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
One)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set
One)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission (Set
One) or, in the alternative, to Deem Defendant to Have Admitted the Matters
Specified.
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.  In addition to any issues that counsel may
wish to raise, the Court will ask counsel to discuss the following.  
First, why did Defendant’s counsel fail to attend the IDC on December
6, 2024?  It appears to the Court that most
if not all of the issues raised by these motions could have been resolved through
the IDC process.
Second, is it correct that on or about December 26, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel served verified responses of Defendant Juan Plascencia (“Defendant”)
to the form interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for production,
and requests for admission at issue?
Third, if so, are there any issues with regard to these most
recent responses that remain?  If so,
what are they?  Please be as specific as
possible and be prepared to direct the Court to the appropriate documents in
the Court file (by filing date and name).
Fourth, the Court understands that Plaintiff has some
suspicions about the verifications.  It
appears that any issue regarding the verifications could best be addressed through
the deposition of the Defendant, rather than asking the Court to speculate or
make findings about the circumstances of the verification based on very limited
evidence.
Fifth, if Defendant served verified responses to the requests
for admission prior to the hearing, does Plaintiff still request a deemed-admitted
order?  On what basis?  A deemed-admitted order is not available when
responses are served late but before the hearing.
Sixth, it appears that Defendant did not initially serve
timely responses.  That means that all
objections are waived – unless Defendant brings a noticed motion for relief
from waiver.  Defendant cannot obtain the
waiver through statements in an opposition to a motion to compel.  Does Defendant plan to bring the motion?  Why hasn’t it been filed yet?  If it hasn’t been filed, shouldn’t the Court
assume that (at least for now) all objections are waived?
Seventh, on what basis should the Court award sanctions to
Plaintiff if Defendant resolved all, or substantially all, of the issues prior
the hearing?  Sanctions are supposed to
be ancillary relief, not the main purpose of a discovery hearing.  And if Defendant resolved all issues, then
the motion will not be granted.
Eighth, on what basis does Defendant seeks sanctions?  It appears that Plaintiff properly served
discovery on September 2, 2024, and Defendant did not serve verified responses
until December 26, 2024, after the motion was filed.  Insisting on verified, code-compliant
responses to discovery is not a misuse of the discovery process.  