 Case Number:  22STCV09677    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  29 Lopez v. Qozi-Habash
22STCV09677
Defendants’ Motion for Order Deeming Plaintiffs to Have Admitted the Truth of
the Matters Specified in Requests for Admission (Sets One)
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to
Form Interrogatories (Sets One)
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to Special Interrogatories (Sets
One)
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to Requests for Production (Sets
One)
Tentative
The motions are granted.
Background
On March 18, 2022, Ariana Lopez, both
individually and as successor in interest to the Estate of Estela Moreno;
Gerado Lopez-Moreno; and Omar Alonso Hernandez (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed the complaint in this action against Tedmu Qozi-Habash, Daniel Kijner,
Cheridah Jones Seeley, Lakeside Community Healthcare, Regal Medical Group, and
Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, and Does 1 through
100.  Plaintiffs assert a survival claim for professional negligence;
a wrongful death claim for professional negligence, a survival claim of
negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, and a wrongful death claim for
negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, all arising out of alleged errors
in the diagnosis and treatment of decedent Estela Moreno.
On February 1, 2024, Providence Health System
Southern California dba Providence Holy Cross Medical Center (erroneously sued
as Providence Holy Cross Medical Center) (“Providence”) filed an answer.
On April 5, 2024, Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.
(erroneously sued as Tedmu Qozi-Habash) (“Qozi-Habash”), Cheridah Jones Seeley,
P.A. (“Seeley”), and Regal Medical Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as Regal
Medical Group) (“Regal”) filed an answer.
On May 20, 2024, each of Qozi-Habash, Seeley,
and Regal (collectively, “Defendants”) served discovery, including Form Interrogatories
(Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production (Set
One), and Requests for Admission (Set One), on each of the
Plaintiffs.  (Rector Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs.
A-C.)  Plaintiffs did not respond.  (Id., ¶ 5.)
On November 12 and 15, 2024, Defendants filed
the four motions that are currently before the Court and set for hearing on
January 9, 2025: three motions to compel and one motion for a deemed-admitted order.
The motion for a deemed-admitted order was
initially heard on December 30, 2024.  The
Court continued the hearing to January 9.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
A party must
respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no
meet and confer efforts are required. (See Id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition,
a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves
to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
A party must
respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after service.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for
production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial responses to
requests for production, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).) 
A party must respond to requests for
admission within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250,
subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for admission are directed does not
provide a timely response, the propounding party “may move for an order that …
the truth of [the] matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for such a
motion, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate
statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In
addition, a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
The court “shall” make the order that the
truth of the matters specified in the request be deemed admitted unless the
court “finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been
directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to
the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see St.
Mary v. Super. Ct. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778-780.)
“It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion [to deem admitted the truth of
the matters specified in the requests for admission].”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has
engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).) 
Discussion
On May 20, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiffs
with discovery, including Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production (Set One), and Requests for
Admission (Set One).  (Rector Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs.
A-C.)  Plaintiffs did not respond.  (Id., ¶ 5.)
Defendants need show nothing
more.  The discovery requests were served, and no responses have been
received.  The motions are granted.
The Court notes, however, that Defendants
filed a four motions for what should have been 48 motions. Combining discovery
motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees.
Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to demand
and receive them. (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Thus, Defendants are ordered to pay 44 additional filing
fees to the Clerk of the Court. This ruling will be final and effective only
upon Defendants’ filing with the Court of proof of payment of the 44 additional
filing fees.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motions to
compel and GRANTS Defendants’ motion for deemed-admitted orders.
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Ariana Lopez,
individually, is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of the matters specified in
the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each of Defendants Tedmur
Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and Regal Medical Group, Inc.
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Ariana
Lopez, as successor in interest to the Estate of Estela Moreno, is DEEMED
TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of the matters specified in the Requests for
Admission (Set One) served by each of Defendants Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.,
Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and Regal Medical Group, Inc.
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Gerado
Lopez-Moreno is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of the matters specified
in the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each of Defendants Tedmur
Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and Regal Medical Group, Inc.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Omar Alonso
Hernandez is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of the matters specified in
the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each of Defendants Tedmur
Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and Regal Medical Group, Inc.
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Ariana Lopez, individually, to serve written, verified,
code compliant responses, without objection, to the following discovery
requests within 15 days of notice: (1) Form Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (2) Form
Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Cheridah
Jones Seeley, P.A.; (3) Form Interrogatories
(Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash
M.D.; (4) Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded
by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (5) Special Interrogatories (Set One)
propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; (6) Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.; (7) Requests
for Production (Set One) propounded by Regal Medical
Group, Inc.; (8) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; and (9) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Ariana Lopez, as successor in interest to the Estate of
Estela Moreno, to serve written, verified, code compliant responses, without
objection, to the following discovery requests within 15 days of notice: (1)
Form Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Regal
Medical Group, Inc.; (2) Form Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; (3) Form Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.; (4) Special Interrogatories
(Set One) propounded by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (5) Special
Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Cheridah
Jones Seeley, P.A.; (6) Special Interrogatories
(Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash
M.D.; (7) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded
by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (8) Requests for Production (Set One)
propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; and (9) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Gerado Lopez-Moreno to serve written, verified,
code compliant responses, without objection, to the following discovery
requests within 15 days of notice: (1) Form Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (2) Form
Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Cheridah
Jones Seeley, P.A.; (3) Form Interrogatories
(Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash
M.D.; (4) Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded
by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (5) Special Interrogatories (Set One)
propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; (6) Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.; (7) Requests
for Production (Set One) propounded by Regal Medical
Group, Inc.; (8) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; and (9) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Omar Alonso Hernandez to serve written, verified,
code compliant responses, without objection, to the following discovery
requests within 15 days of notice: (1) Form Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (2) Form
Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Cheridah
Jones Seeley, P.A.; (3) Form Interrogatories
(Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash
M.D.; (4) Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded
by Regal Medical Group, Inc.; (5) Special Interrogatories (Set One)
propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; (6) Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.; (7) Requests
for Production (Set One) propounded by Regal Medical
Group, Inc.; (8) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A.; and (9) Requests for Production (Set One) propounded by Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.
Moving parties are ORDERED to file 44 additional
filing fees to the Clerk of the Court and to file and serve a notice of proof
of payment.  This ruling will be final and
effective only upon Defendants’ filing with the Court of proof of payment of
the 44 additional filing fees.
Moving parties are ORDERED to give notice.