  Case Number:  21CHCV00423    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-21-24
Case #21CHCV00423,
Win Partners, LLC vs. World Tech Toys, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: 5-5-25
 
MOTION TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
World Tech Toys, Inc., World Trading 23, Inc., and Kevork Kouyoumjian
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants have
requested that an attorney be admitted pro hac vice.
 
RULING: Motion
to be admitted pro hac vice is denied without prejudice on procedural grounds.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendants’
California counsel, Aaron M. McKown, has filed an application for pro hac vice
status for Florida attorney William P. Cassidy, Jr. The declaration of this attorney
filed in support of his applications for pro hac vice status mostly complies with
the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40, except for one issue.  
 
Rule 9.40
states that an applicant’s application “must” state (1) the applicant’s
residence and office address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensees of the State Bar of California who are
the attorneys of record for the case. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40(d).)
 
Mr. Cassidy’s
declaration contains all of the information required by Rule 9.40(d), except
for the information as to the date of his other applications and whether his
other applications for pro hac vice status were granted. Rule 9.40(d)(5)
requires that an applicant provide the date of his other applications for pro
hac vice status and whether or not the application was granted. The application
provided by Mr. Cassidy states the names of three cases in which he has filed
for pro hac vice status in the last two years, but it does not state the date
of the application or whether the application was granted. (Cassidy Decl., ¶
7.)
 
Because Mr.
Cassidy’s declaration does not conform to the requirements of Rule 9.40(d), the
Court denies the motion without prejudice on procedural grounds.
 
The attorney’s
application to be admitted pro hac vice is denied without prejudice.
 
Moving party to
give notice.