..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22AHCV00201
Plaintiff's Name: Jing Shao
Defendant's Names: Liping Huang, Jack Wei Chao, Lina Ta, and Does 1 to 10
People-Names: Jing Shao, Liping Huang, Jack Wei Chao, Lina Ta
Company-Names: Navigators Real Estate, Inc.
Places: Monrovia, Los Angeles
Dates: September 27, 2023
Events: Real estate purchase contract, arbitration agreement, motion to compel arbitration
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Shao seeks to compel arbitration and specific performance, but the motion is denied
Facts: Shao and Huang had a real estate purchase contract, but Chao and Ta convinced Huang not to go through with the sale
Disputes: Shao's claims against Huang are intertwined with his claims against Chao and Ta, and arbitration would not be appropriate
Acts: Shao filed a motion to compel arbitration, but it was denied
Agreements: Residential Purchase Agreement, arbitration agreement
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) ยง1281, CCP ยง1281.2, Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996)
Statutes: CCP ยง1281, CCP ยง1281.2
Roles: Judge Margaret L. Oldendorf, Plaintiff Jing Shao, Defendants Liping Huang, Jack Wei Chao, and Lina Ta
Significant Statements: "The motion fails for lack of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate and lack of evidence of Huang's refusal to arbitrate." "Even had such evidence been presented, because Shao's claims against Huang are intertwined with his claims against Chao and Ta, arbitration would not be appropriate as it could result in conflicting rulings."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

This tentative ruling denies the plaintiff's motion to compel arbitration in a real estate dispute case. The case involves a real estate purchase contract between Jing Shao and Liping Huang, but Huang did not go through with the sale after being convinced by Jack Wei Chao and Lina Ta. Shao alleges breach of contract and seeks specific performance, but also claims that Chao and Ta interfered with his contractual relations. The motion to compel arbitration was denied due to lack of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate and lack of evidence of Huang's refusal to arbitrate. Even if such evidence had been presented, the court would not have granted the motion because Shao's claims against Huang are intertwined with his claims against Chao and Ta, and arbitration could result in conflicting rulings. The case is stayed, and Shao is ordered to give notice of the ruling.
