  Case Number:  22AHCV00201    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



JING SHAO, an individual,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
LIPING
  HUANG, an individual; JACK WEI CHAO, an individual; LINA TA, an individual;
  and DOES 1 to 10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV00201
Related to 23AHCV00045 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Date:   September
  27, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          This case and related case, Navigators
Real Estate, Inc. v. Liping Huang, concern a real estate purchase contract. The
real estate is a residence in Monrovia owned by Huang.  Jack Chao and Lina Ta are sued for convincing
Huang not to go through with the sale, allegedly wrongly depriving Navigators
of an earned commission and depriving Shao of the home he seeks to purchase.
          Shao alleges breach of contract and
seeks specific performance as to Huang. He sues Chao and Ta for intentional
interference with contractual relation. Shao now seeks an order compelling
enforcement of an arbitration agreement contained in the Residential Purchase
Agreement between himself and Huang, and “bifurcation” of the arbitration from
this action. The motion fails for lack of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate
and lack of evidence of Huang’s refusal to arbitrate. But even had such
evidence been presented, because Shao’s claims against Huang are intertwined
with his claims against Chao and Ta, arbitration would not be appropriate as it
could result in conflicting rulings. The motion is denied.
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civ. Proc. §1281 provides: “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an
existing controversy or a controversy thereafter existing is valid,
enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.”
Code
Civ. Proc. §1281.2 provides that upon petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate and a
party’s refusal to submit to arbitration, the court shall order the parties to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement exists, unless it
determines that the right to arbitrate has been waived, that grounds exist for
revocation, or that a party to the agreement is also party to a pending
litigation arising out of the same facts and there exists a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of fact or law.  In such a situation, the court may (1) refuse
to enforce the arbitration agreement and order intervention or joinder of all
parties in a single action, (2) order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues, (3) order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the action pending outcome of arbitration, or (4) stay
arbitration pending outcome of the litigation.
          III.     DISCUSSION
          A. No Evidence of Written Agreement
to Arbitrate
          When a petition to compel arbitration
is “filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written agreement to
arbitrate the controversy, the court itself determine whether the agreement
exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is
enforceable.” Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413
(Rosenthal). “[T]he facts are to be
proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence, with oral
testimony taken only in the court’s discretion.” Id. at 413-414.
          A
party seeking to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate. Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 75 Cal.App.5th 158, 164 [“The burden of persuasion is always
on the moving party to prove the existence of an arbitration agreement with the
opposing party by a preponderance of the evidence”].
          Shao has offered no evidence in
support of this motion. There is simply a copy of a Residential Purchase
Agreement tacked onto the motion, with no authenticating declaration. There is
also no evidence of Huang’s refusal to arbitrate. As this threshold showing was
not made, the burden did not shift to Huang to oppose the motion. The motion is
denied on the ground that it lacks an evidentiary basis. 
          Even if this burden had been met, the motion would be
denied. There are legal and factual issues concerning the Residential Purchase
Agreement that are intertwined with legal and factual issues pertaining to
Shao’s claims against Ta and Chao. The claims need to be tried together in
order to avoid conflicting outcomes.
IV.     ORDER
          Shao’s motion to compel arbitration is denied; and both
cases are ordered stayed. Shao is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT