  Case Number:  20STCV07228    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  40 
20STCV07228 Bagrat Ogannes, et al. v. Armen Kavoukjian,
 et al.
Tuesday,
 January 14, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING THE MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE BY DEFENDANT, ARMEN KAVOUKJIAN
 
I.       BACKGROUND
      This
action arises from the alleged malicious prosecution of an underlying action pursued
by Armen Kavoukjian (“Kavoukjian”) and Greeneden, LLC against Organic America,
LLC and Bagrat Ogannes (“Ogannes”) among other Defendants that resulted in a
judgment in favor of Ogannes and other Defendants (the “Fraud Action”). Plaintiffs
allege one cause of action for malicious prosecution of the Fraud Action
bearing Case No. BC596896 Armen
Kavoukjian, et al. v. Organic America, LLC, et al. 
      On April 14, 2022, the Hon. Michael Linfield
related this matter to 21BBCV00732 Bagrat Ogannes v. Armen Kovoukjian
wherein Plaintiff alleged that Defendant maliciously prosecuted the same underlying
action involved in this matter. Judge Linfield reassigned both matters to
Department 34 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse, and designated 20STCV07228 as the
lead matter. After Judge Linfield accepted a peremptory challenge, Department 1
determined that both cases remained related and transferred both matters to the
Hon. David Sotelo in Department 40 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
II.     ARGUMENTS
      Defendant
Kavoukjian moves to consolidate the related matters for all purposes including
trial as both cases involve the same issues of fact and law and will rely on
the same witnesses. A single trial will avoid unnecessary costs and delays and
will serve judicial economy and convenience. 
      In
opposition, Defendant Harutiun Kassakhian (“Kassakhian”), a Defendant in the
lead matter but not the related matter argues that there is insufficient
verified information on which the court can make an informed decision about
whether the cases should be consolidated. He was not a party in the Fraud
Action, either, but rather was substituted into the Fraud Action as counsel at
the last minute. Kassakhian contends he will suffer prejudice by being denied
the right to independently defend the lead matter against him while incurring
additional expenses to defend in the related matter where there are multiple other
defendants not involving him. 
      The
only common fact between the related cases is that Plaintiffs here prevailed in
the Fraud Action, which does not justify forcing Kasskhian to have to defend
against additional, prejudicial allegations involving other Defendants in the
related matter. 
      In
reply, Kavoukjhian argues that the key point is that both the lead and related
matter involve the prosecution of the underlying Fraud Action. He was still
involved in the prosecution of the underlying Fraud Action. While it would have
been helpful for moving party to attach copies of the underlying complaints, it
is not mandatory, and moving party apologizes.
III.    DISCUSSION
      The decision to consolidate is a matter for
the court’s discretion. (Muller
v. Robinson (1959) 174
Cal.App.2d 511, 515.) Consolidation
is appropriate where common questions of law or fact are pending and in order
to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 subd. (a).)  The court has discretion to order “a consolidation for
purposes of trial only, where the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a
complete consolidation or consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions
are merged into a single proceeding under one case number and result in only
one verdict or set of findings and one judgment.”(Hamilton
v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) Consolidation
is appropriate whenever it can be done “without prejudice to a substantial
right." (Jud
Whitehead Heater Co. v. Obler
(1952) 111 Cal.App.2d 861, 867.)
      The
court takes judicial notice on its own motion of the court records in the Fraud
Action and the lead and related matters. (Scott
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
743, 752 [The court has discretion to take judicial notice of documents absent a
party’s formal request and “on its own volition.”].)  The lead and related matters involve common
issue of facts between the same parties, which occurred during the same time
period.  The October 6, 2015, complaint
commenced by Kavoukjian and Greeneden against Ogannes and others alleged that
Ogannes and others perpetrated fraud in a purported scheme to “con” Kavoukjian
into investing more than $250,000 into a greenhouse business. Judgment was
entered in that matter on February 20, 2019, in favor of Ogannes and others and
against Kavoukjian and Greeneden. (Complaint in BC596896 ¶15; Jgmt. 2/20/19.)
      The
court’s record in the Fraud Action reflects that while Kassakhian was not a
party, he was involved as counsel for Kavoukjian, who pursued the Fraud Action against
Ogannes and others. The court’s record reflects that Kassakhian is a defendant
in the lead matter, having answered on September 22, 2020. However, Kassakhian
is  not a party in the related matter.
Regardless, Kassakhian’s involvement in the original Fraud Action as counsel
for Kavoukjian, and that he is a named defendant in the lead matter involving
the prosecution of the Fraud Action creates a sufficient overlap of facts,
issues, and law that warrant consolidation of the related matters for trial. 
      While
Kassakhian claims he will suffer prejudice from being “lumped in” with other
Defendants in a matter in which he is not a party, the prejudice can be
mitigated with instructions to the jury by the court. Consolidation will
promote judicial economy, avoid unnecessary costs and delay, and promote the
convenience of the parties and witnesses who are likely to be the same as the
same underlying litigation is involved in both matters. 
V.   CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, the motion to consolidate by Defendant, Armen Kavoukjian, is
GRANTED. 
      
 
 