 Case Number:  23STCP03129    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
On August 28, 2023, Petitioner American Annuity Funding, LLC
(“Petitioner”) filed its Petition to Approve Structured Settlement.  
 
On September 18, 2023, Petitioner filed its
First Amended Petition and a Notice of Hearing.
 
On September 26, 2023, Specially Appearing
Interested Party Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”)
filed a Response to the First Amended Petition. 
 
On April 02, 2024, the Court found that
21AVCP00067 and 23STCP03129 are related within the meaning of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.300(a) and consolidated the actions with 21AVCP00067 as the
lead case. 
 
On April 17, 2024, Petitioner filed a Second
Amended Petition (“SAP”).
 
On April 19, 2024, the Court continued the
hearing on this matter from April 23, 2024 to May 21, 2024. 
 
On April 23, 2024, the Court continued the
hearing on this matter from May 21, 2024 to June 18, 2024. BHLN provided
notice.
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
Insurance Code section 10137
generally provides that: “[a] transfer of structured settlement payment rights
is void unless a court reviews and approves the transfer.” In approving the
transfer, the court must make the following findings: (a) the transfer of the
structured settlement payment rights is fair and reasonable and in the best
interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of his or
her dependents; and (b) the transfer complies with the requirements of this
article, will not contravene other applicable law, and the court has reviewed
and approved the transfer as provided in [Insurance Code] Section
10139.5.”  (Id.) 
 
All petitions for approval of
structured settlement payment rights must be filed by the transferee in the
county where the payee is residing at the time of the agreement, or if the
payee is domiciled outside of California, in the county of the settlement
obligor or annuity issuer.  (Ins. Code, §
10139.5, subd. (f)(1).)  All court costs
and filing fees must be paid by the transferee. 
(Id., § 10139.5, subd. (g).)  At
least 20 days before the hearing on the petition, the transferee must “file
with the court and serve on all interested parties a notice of the proposed
transfer and the petition for its authorization.”  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2).)  The notice of hearing must also include all
of the following materials: 
 
(1)   Any
other prior petition (regardless of whether it was withdrawn or approved); 
(2)   The
proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form; 
(3)   A
listing of each payee’s dependents, along with their age;  
(4)    The disclosure required by Ins. Code § 10136,
subd. (b); 
(5)   The
annuity contract (if available); 
(6)   The
qualified assignment agreement (if available); 
(7)   The
underlying structured settlement agreement (if available); 
(8)   A
proof of service showing compliance with notification requirements; 
(9)   A
notification to all interested parties that they are “entitled to support,
oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee's petition, either in person or
by counsel, by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in
the hearing”; and 
(10)  A
notification to the payee’s attorney of record in the structured settlement
(only if entered into in the last five years).  

 
(Id., § 10139.5,
subd. (f)(2).)  
 
Written
Determinations & Court’s Findings
 
Insurance Code section 10139.5,
subdivision (a), provides that the court must review the proposed transfer and
make the following written determinations: 
 
(1)    The transfer is in the best interest of the
payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents. 
(2)   The
payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent
professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice
or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice. 
(3)   The
transferee has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a
disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement
complies with Sections 10136 and 10138. 
(4)   The
transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court
or other government authority. 
(5)   The
payee understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set
forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136. 
(6)   The
payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the
transfer agreement.   
 
 (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).) 
 
The Court’s consideration of
“whether the transfer should be approved,” particularly “whether the transfer
is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interest, taking into account the
welfare and support of the payee's dependents,” (per Ins. Code § 10137, subd.
(a),) is based on taking the following issues into account: 
 
(1)   The
reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed
transaction, taking into account the payee's age, mental capacity, legal
knowledge, and apparent maturity level.  
(2)   The
stated purpose of the transfer. 
(3)   The
payee’s financial and economic situation. 
(4)   The
terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly
or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments. 
(5)   Whether,
when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the
subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical
care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in
the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still
needs those future payments to pay for that future care and treatment. 
(6)   Whether,
when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the
subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary
living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future
structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses. 
(7)   Whether
the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future
medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in
connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether
the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those
future medical expenses. 
(8)   Whether
the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured
settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient
to meet the payee's future financial obligations for maintenance and support of
the payee's dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee's
child support obligations, if any. The payee shall disclose to the transferee
and the court his or her court-ordered child support or maintenance obligations
for the court's consideration. 
(9)   Whether
the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to
determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the
transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction,
the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee's stated
objectives, are fair and reasonable. 
(10)  Whether
the payee completed previous transactions involving the payee's structured
settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and
whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction. 
(11)  Whether
the transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee’s structured
settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior
to a decision on the merits, within the past five years. 
(12)  Whether,
to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after making inquiry with the payee,
the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions
with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or
which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the
past five years. 
(13)  Whether
the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship
situation. 
(14)  Whether
the payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the
transaction. The court may deny or defer ruling on the petition for approval of
a transfer of structured settlement payment rights if the court believes that
the payee does not fully understand the proposed transaction and that
independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction should be
obtained by the payee. 
(15)  Any
other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested
party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court
determines should be considered in reviewing the transfer.  
 
(Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (b).) 
 
The Court has already addressed
Gail Belbeck (“Payee”)’s attempt to sell the remainder of her structured
settlement previously and determined that it was not in Payee’s best interest.
(See Exh. 11 attached to the SAP.) The Court explicitly stated, “[i]f
submitted, the Court will approve a petition that at least matches any offer
made by Berkshire Hathaway.” (Ibid.)
Petitioner has conceded that it
cannot match BHLN’s offer. (See Petition ¶ 26.)
 
Accordingly, the offer in the SAP
is still not in Payee’s best interest and, as such, is DENIED.
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner American Annuity Funding, LLC’s Petition
for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights is DENIED.