  Case Number:  22AVCV00628    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action. Plaintiff
Saul Vanegas (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he is an armed security guard that
works under the table for Defendant CulichiTown Management Group Inc.
(“CulichiTown”) and on October 11, 2021, he was preparing to leave when the
manager of CulichiTown approached him to let him know there was a fight inside
the restaurant and requested that Plaintiff continue working and stop the
fight. Plaintiff further alleges that he went over to the direction of the
fight and saw a male, later identified as Joseph M. Quirola, sued here as the
Estate of Joseph M. Quirola (as to both the estate and the individual
“Quirola”), and asked Quirola to stop, but Quirola’s female companion
intervened and yelled at Plaintiff to leave them alone and not tell them what
to do. Plaintiff presents that, afterwards, the Quirola’s female companion
grabbed a glass and attempted to throw it at Plaintiff, Plaintiff warned her
not to throw it or he would be forced to pepper spray her, Quirola’s female companion
threw the glass and Quirola rushed at Plaintiff, Plaintiff pepper sprayed both
individuals, Quirola then pulled out a gun and shot at Plaintiff multiple
times, going through Plaintiff’s bulletproof vest, and Plaintiff fired his
weapon for self-defense. Plaintiff contends that he could not return to work
immediately due to his injuries from this incident and, because of this,
CulichiTown and Defendants Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos Entertainment,
Inc. (collectively with Sammy’s Café Mexican Food as “Sammy’s Café
Defendants”), Ramon Misael Elenes (“Elenes”), and Norberto Manuel Perez
Gutierrez (“Gutierrez”) terminated his employment.¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed his
Complaint, alleging five causes of action for: (1) Assault against Quirola; (2)
Battery against Quirola; (3) Negligence against Quirola; (4) Premises Liability
– Negligence against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; and (5)
Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café,
Elenes, and Gutierrez.¿ 
¿ 
On February 16, 2023, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed their Answer and Cross-Complaint for Equitable/Implied
Indemnity, Apportionment and Contribution, and Declaratory Relief against Moe
Defendants 1 through 25.¿Sammy’s Café Defendants’ Answer states that it is on
behalf of (1) Sammy’s Café Mexican Food, and (2) Carlos Entertainment, Inc. dba
Culichitown (Erroneously sued and served as Culichitown Management Group, Inc.)
The Court will address both defendants as “Sammy’s Café Defendants” as the
short form has been used to address the same parties previously.  
 
On August 08, 2023 Sammy’s Café Defendants
filed a Motion for Summary Judgment as to the fourth and fifth causes of
action.¿ 
¿ 
On August 16, 2023, an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”) was held.¿ 
¿ 
On August 18, 2023, the parties stipulated
to a continuance.¿ 
¿ 
On August 30, 2023, a second IDC was
held.¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint, subsequently granted.¿ 
¿ 
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed his
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging seven causes of action for: (1)
Assault against Quirola; (2) Battery against Quirola; (3) Negligence against
Quirola; (4) Premises Liability – Negligence against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café,
Elenes, and Gutierrez; (5) Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn against
CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; (6) Negligence – Cal. Lab.
Code § 3706 against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; and (7)
Wrongful Termination – Violation of Public Policy – Cal. Lab. Code § 132a
against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez.¿ 
On December 06, 2023, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed their Demurrer, subsequently overruled.  
 
On December 13, 2023, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed their Motion for Summary Judgment as to the sixth cause of
action only.  
 
On December 14, 2023, the parties entered a
stipulation to continue the Motion for Summary Judgments.  
 
On December 21, 2023, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed an Amendment to the Cross-Complaint, amending the fictitious
name of Moe 1 to Miguel Macias.  
 
On December 26, 2023, an IDC was held. 
 
On January 12, 2024, Sammy’s Café Defendants
filed a Motion for Leave to Psychologically Examine Plaintiff, subsequently
granted.  
 
On February 05, 2024, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC.  
 
On February 07, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the fourth and fifth causes
of action.¿ 
 
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition to Motion for the Summary Judgment as to the sixth cause of
action. 
 
On May 02, 2024, Sammy’s Café Defendants
filed its Replies.   
 
On May 14, 2024, the Court issued its ruling
on the Motion for Summary Judgment, denying the Motion for Summary Judgment and
the alternative request for summary adjudication, for the Fourth and Fifth
Causes of Action (Premises Liability – Negligence and Willful Failure to Warn)
and granting the request for summary adjudication for the Sixth Cause of Action
(Negligence – Cal. Lab. Code § 3706). 
 
On May 14, 2024, Sammy’s Café Defendants
filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings RE Plaintiff’s Sixth and Seventh
Causes of Action and to Strike All References to Plaintiff Being Defendants’
Employee due to Judicial Estoppel (“MJOP”). 
 
On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition.
 
On June 11, 2024, Sammy’s Café Defendants filed their Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Judgment on the Pleadings – A defendant may move for judgment on the
pleadings only when: a motion for judgment on the pleadings may only be made on
one of the following grounds: (1) the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the complaint; or (2) the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 438(c)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings
challenges the legal sufficiency of a pleading’s allegations, not their
veracity. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) Thus, a motion for judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent
of a general demurrer. (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. of
Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198; see also Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [“A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.
Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings.”].)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
The standard for ruling on a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable
to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 [citing Schabarum v. California Legislature
(1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216].)¿Any defects must either appear on the face of the pleading, or else be
taken by judicial notice. (Id. at 321-22.) The parties’ ability to prove
their respective claims is of no concern. (Cloud, supra, 67
Cal.App.4th 995 at 999.) Though the Court must accept the allegations of the
complaint and answer as true (Gerawan Farming, Inc. v. Lyons (2000) 24
Cal.4th 468, 515), it will not do so for “conclusions of law or fact, opinions,
speculation, or allegations contrary to law or [judicially noticed] facts. . .”
(Stevenson Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Servs.,
Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219–20.)¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Judicial Notice – Sammy’s Café Defendants request judicial
notice of Plaintiff’s 2021 income tax return (see Exh. B at Exh. A attachment),
obtained through discovery (see Exh. C). Plaintiff objects, stating: (1) Plaintiff
has never testified that his 2021 tax returns are a perfectly accurate
reflection of all income he earned in 2021; (2) judicial notice does not take
notice of the truth of the statements contained in the document and its proper
interpretation are not subject to judicial notice when those matters are
reasonably disputable; (3) the truth of the statements contained in a document
and its proper interpretation are not subject to judicial notice when those
matters are reasonably disputable; and (4) the accuracy of these tax returns in
disclosing the covert and unlawful employment relationship is part of the
gravamen of this lawsuit and is in dispute. Sammy’s Café Defendants state that
Plaintiff’s challenge cannot hold as Plaintiff “ready made a binding judicial
admission that the return is genuine, and even if the Court chose to not take
judicial notice of the substantive content, there can be no dispute of its plain
black-and-white text, and the absence of Defendant therein,” (Reply 3:11-14.) Sammy’s
Café Defendants cite to Chacon v.
Union Pac. Railroad (2020) 56 Cal.
App. 5th 565 (“Chachon”), arguing the that the key to judicial
notice is when a document’s content is reasonably disputable and that the 2021
tax return is not reasonably subject to dispute.
 
The Court believes that, based on Plaintiff’s representations in the
Opposition to Judicial Notice, Plaintiff is stating that he has turned over to
Sammy’s Café Defendants a tax return that accurately reflects what Plaintiff reported
to the IRS and California Franchise Tax Board (see Exh. C at Response to RFA 79
[“Subject to the foregoing, Responding Party admits that Responding Party’s
2021 Tax Return as produced by Responding Party, and then reproduced, is a
genuine document”]), but that Plaintiff has never stated that the genuine 2021
tax documents were an accurate reflection of all income received. 
 
This leads to an issue where what was reported in the tax document is
disputed. The items judicial notice is requested of (tax documents) and the
fact that the content of the items is disputed distinguishes the Request for
Judicial Notice before this Court from that of Sammy’s Café Defendants’ cited
case Chacon, supra, 56 Cal. App. 5th 565, 572.
 
As such, the Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. 
 
Application – As an initial matter, Sammy’s Café Defendants direct this MJOP
to two causes of action, the Sixth Cause of Action (Negligence – Cal. Laor Code§ 3706) and the Seventh Cause of Action (Wrongful
Termination – Violation of Public Policy – Cal. Lab. Code § 132a against
CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez.). As mentioned in the
background section, the request for summary adjudication for the Sixth
Cause of Action (Negligence – Cal. Lab.
Code § 3706) was granted on May 14, 2024. As such, the Court need not address
the Sixth Cause of Action (Negligence – Cal. Lab. Code § 3706) as it is no
longer at issue. 
 
This motion centers on
Plaintiff’s tax returns. Sammy’s Café Defendants have requested judicial notice
of Plaintiff’s tax returns and seek to use it as the basis for a determination
that Plaintiff is not an employee of Sammy’s Café Defendants. That is, Sammy’s
Café Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot tell one branch of government
(i.e., Internal Revue Service and the California Franchise Tax Board) he was
not employed by the, but tell another branch that he is. As the Court has
denied the Request for Judicial Notice, the Court cannot proceed with an
analysis of the arguments surrounding the moving papers as they center of the
information contained in Plaintiff’s tax returns. That is, the Court cannot
take judicial notice of the content of Plaintiff’s tax returns and, as such,
Sammy’s Café Defendant’s arguments are no longer at issue. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos
Entertainment, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.