  Case Number:  23LBCV00523    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claudia Lankford, individually and as successor-in-interest
to Valentina Timascu, filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Steven J. Appleby, M.D., and Maurice A. Bell, M.D., as well as
Sorin Musat as a nominal defendant, for medical malpractice and wrongful death
arising out of Defendants’ care and treatment of Decedent, Timascu.  
 
2.    
Motions
for Summary Judgment 
a.    
Law
Governing Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony.  Id.  If the “common knowledge” exception does not
apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot
be disregarded.  Id.  
 
A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
b.    
Law
Governing Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. 
[Citations.]  That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical
'possibility' needs little discussion. 
There can be many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of
circumstances which can produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only
becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable causal
explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a result of
its action.  This is the outer limit of
inference upon which an issue may be submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp.
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
c.    
Analysis

Dr. Bell moves for summary judgment
on the complaint, contending his care and treatment of Plaintiff complied with
the standard of care and nothing he did caused or contributed to Decedent’s
death.  He supports his motion with
expert medical declarations.  Dr. Bell
supports his motion with the Declaration of Michael Eilbert, MD.  The Court has reviewed the moving
declarations and find they are sufficient to meet the burden to show that the
moving defendant complied with the standard of care at all times in connection
with Decedent’s care and treatment, and that nothing he did caused or
contributed to Decedent’s death.  
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff
indicates, with her opposition papers, that she intends to appear at the
hearing and voice oral objections to Defendants’ evidence submitted with their
moving papers.  CRC 3.1352 permits oral
objections at the hearing, and the Court will entertain the objections at that
time.
 
On 6/05/24, Plaintiff filed
untimely (one day late) opposition to the motions.  Because summary judgment is an extreme
remedy, the Court has read and considered the papers despite their lack of
timeliness.  Plaintiff supports her
oppositions with the Declaration of Dr. Jeffrey Brown, M.D.  Defendants filed objections to Brown’s
declaration.  The objections are
sustained.  The Court incorporates its
analysis from Co-Defendant, LBMMC’s 3/05/24 summary judgment ruling by
reference.  The Court therein held:
Dr. Brown’s CV indicates he is a
“skilled clinical researcher with 15 years of experience in the healthcare
industry at the intersection of clinical care delivery & clinical
documentation.”  It states he has been
retained as an EMR/EHR expert in litigation; these terms are not defined in the
CV. The remainder of his CV makes it clear that he largely works for hospitals
and medical groups determining whether their care is medically necessary in
order to ensure insurance coverage will be provided.  
 
As Defendant correctly notes in
reply, Dr. Brown does not declare that he is a licensed medical doctor or that
he is familiar with the standard of care applicable to nurses or non-physician
staff.  See Keene v. Prisinzano (1972) 23
Cal.App.3d 275, 279.  The objection on
the ground that Dr. Brown failed to establish he is qualified to testify
concerning standard of care or causation is therefore sustained.
 
Additionally, the Court notes that
Dr. Brown sets forth all of the facts of the case, and then concludes, “For the
reasons stated above, it is my opinion that the moving party’s medical care was
below the community standard and did not meet the decedent’s needs and
therefore, constituted medical negligence, and arguably constitute malpractice.
More likely than not their actions (or inactions) hastened and contributed to
Valentina Timascu’s unfortunate death.”  
 
This is a very vague
conclusion.  The acts “arguably
constitute malpractice”?  They “more
likely than not” hastened death?  An
expert opposing a summary judgment motion must opine that, “to a reasonable
medical probability,” the defendant’s acts caused the damages.  See Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25
Cal.4th 763, 775-776.  More
likely than not is not the same as to a reasonable medical probability.  These objections on the ground that Dr. Brown
failed to adequately opine concerning standard of care and/or causation are
therefore also sustained.
 
The Court notes that the same
declaration was submitted with the opposition to these motions, and it is
subject to the same objections, which are sustained.     
 
If the Court overrules Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendants’ moving evidence at the time of the hearing, the
motions will be granted.  If the parties
submit on the tentative, the motions will be granted.  
d.    
Notice
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If the parties do not submit on the
tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.