 Case Number:  23LBCV01383    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Ralina Melinda Melgoza,
et al. filed this action against Defendant, David J. Kelly, Trustee of the
David J. Kelly Separate Property Trust for damages arising out of the parties’
landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
Plaintiffs’ operative complaint is their
original complaint, which they filed on 7/24/23.  It includes causes of action for nuisance,
negligence, breach of the implied warranty of habitability, breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment, violation of Civil Code §1942.4, and IIED.  
 
2.     Demurrer
to Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares he and Plaintiffs’ attorney met and conferred
telephonically, but were unable to resolve the issues presented by way of the
demurrer.  The meet and confer
requirement is therefore satisfied.  
 

Seventh Cause of
     Action, IIED

i.             
Defendant’s Contentions
Defendant demurs to the seventh
cause of action, contending Plaintiffs have not pled extreme and outrageous
conduct to support imposition of liability for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  Additionally, he
contends Plaintiffs have not pled that they suffered severe emotional distress.
 
ii.            
Extreme and Outrageous Conduct
Neither party cites any authority
concerning whether and when IIED can be pled in the context of a habitability
claim.  The Court is aware of Burness v.
Chimney (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1062 and Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921, both of which considered this issue.  
 
The refusal to repair toxic mold
after repeated notification, resulting in “severe physical injury and
discomfort” and the inability to occupy premises for business use, was held sufficient
in Burnett to state a claim for IIED.  
 
In Stoiber, the plaintiff alleged
the landlord knew about “leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling
ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous
conditions” and therefore the question of the outrageousness of landlord's conduct
could go to the jury.  While conclusory
allegations of a failure to repair may not be enough to show outrageous
conduct, specific allegations of knowingly allowing continuing leaking sewage
-- conduct which directly implicates sanitation and health – justified the
cause of action as pled.
 
Plaintiffs herein allege that they
complained of habitability violations, including cockroaches, plumbing issues,
water leaks, flooding, water damaged ceiling, cracked ceiling, cracks and holes
in walls and floors, defective windows, doors, cabinets, and frames, defective
smoke detectors, defective light and ventilation, and the presence of
mold.  ¶26.  They allege multiple attempts to request
repairs throughout 2021 and 2022, including two complaints to the Department of
Public Health, which resulted in numerous DPH violations being issued between
fall of 2022 and spring of 2023.  The
Court finds these allegations are sufficiently similar to those found in
Burnett and Stoiber to support the allegation that Defendant engaged in
sufficiently outrageous conduct to state a claim for IIED.
 
iii.           
Severe Emotional Distress
Plaintiffs fail, in their
opposition papers, to address Defendant’s argument that they have not pled
facts showing they suffered severe emotional distress as a result of
Defendant’s actions.  Plaintiffs’
allegations in this regard are found at ¶¶124-125 of their complaint.  Plaintiffs allege:
124. As a result of DEFENDANTS’
intentional conduct, PLAINTIFFS suffered from extreme emotional distress when:
they were threatened with eviction, when they lost a sense of normalcy and
comfort, and when they had difficulty sleeping at night because of DEFENDANTS
conduct. PLAINTIFFS allege this intentional conduct by was the and actual and
proximate cause of the extreme emotional distress they have suffered. 
125. As a result of DEFENDANTS’
acts and omissions, PLAINTIFFS did suffer severe emotional distress, mental
stress, annoyance, discomfort, aggravation, humiliation, degradation, and
embarrassment, thereby entitling PLAINTIFFS to punitive damages according to
proof at trial.
 
Severe emotional distress means
“emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no
reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.”  Girard v. Ball (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 772, 787
788.  The Court agrees with Defendant;
Plaintiffs have not pled the existence of such severe emotional distress that
no reasonably person should be expected to endure it.  The demurrer on this ground is
sustained.  Leave to amend is granted if
and only if Plaintiffs can plead facts establishing they suffered severe
emotional distress as defined above.  
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in
connection with their seventh cause of action for IIED.  Because the cause of action is not adequately
pled, as detailed above, the motion to strike is moot.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to the IIED
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend on the ground that Plaintiffs
failed to plead severe emotional distress. 
The motion to strike is moot.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file an
amended complaint within twenty days. 
Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading within the statutory
time thereafter.  
 
5.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer and
motion to strike.  The Court asks Counsel
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the pleading
challenges.