 Case Number:  23LBCV00538    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Jessica Joi Comer filed
this action against Defendant, Jennifer Jiefan Chen for damages arising out of
an automobile accident.  On 1/11/24,
Defendant propounded a notice of IME, setting Plaintiff’s examination for
2/15/24 at 3:30 p.m. in the office of Hart C.M. Cohen, M.D.  Plaintiff did not appear.  On 3/05/24, Defendant propounded a second
demand for IME, again setting the IME with Dr. Cohen, this time for 4/09/24 at
3:30 p.m.  Plaintiff again failed to
appear at the scheduled IME.
 
At this time, Defendant moves to
compel Plaintiff’s IME.  Defendant also
seeks an order imposing sanctions. 
Defendant seeks to compel the IME per CCP §2032.240.  §2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff
fails to respond to a demand, the defendant may move for an order compelling a
response to the demand and compelling compliance with the request for an exam.  In light of the lack of opposition, the
motion is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered
to serve a response to the demand, without objection (objections are waived per
§2032.240(a)), within ten days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to appear for
examination with Dr. Cohen on 730/24 at 3:30 p.m.  The Court notes that Defendants have set
forth the proposed scope of the examination, as well as the manner, conditions,
and nature of the examination, in the prior notice of IME, and that the scope
of the examination may not be expanded in connection with the compelled
IME.  
 
Defendant also appears to seek
sanctions.  §2032.240(c) requires the
Court to impose sanctions unless the Court finds Plaintiff acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions
unjust.  Plaintiff has not opposed the
motion, and therefore has not shown a reason why sanctions should not be
imposed.  Defendant, however, does not
mention sanctions in the notice of motion, as required by CCP §2023.030.  Defense Counsel’s declaration does not
provide any details concerning how many hours were billed, what expenses were
incurred, etc., as a result of the motion. 
The points and authorities indicate only that Defendant “will leave it
up to the Court to decide whether or not to impose sanctions.”  If a request for sanctions were properly
noticed and supported, the Court would award sanctions; in the absence of
proper notice and support, any request for sanctions is denied.    
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   