

Hearing
Date:             June 12, 2024
Case
Name:                Alvarado v. Henley
Pacific LA LLC 
Case
No.:                    23STCV25426
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Henley Pacific LA LLC

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Samuel Alvarado

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel Arbitration
is denied. 

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Samuel Alvarado (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on October
18, 2023, alleging numerous wage and hour Labor Code claims against his former
employer, Defendant Henley
Pacific LA LLC (Defendant). No Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA) claim was alleged.
Then, on February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, alleging a
single representative PAGA cause of action. The PAGA cause of action incorporates
the numerous Labor Code violations contained in the original Complaint. But the
First Amended Complaint pleads that “Plaintiff is not seeking individual/victim
specific relief.” (FAC ¶ 31.)
 
            On
May 14, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the FAA does
not apply to this arbitration agreement and the PAGA claims are not arbitrable.

 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is denied.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims and stay the remaining
representative PAGA claims while the arbitration is pending.
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on a 2022 Arbitration Agreement. In support
of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant submits evidence that Plaintiff
began his employment with Defendant as a
certified CSA on November 21, 2022, at Defendant’s Melrose Service Center
located in Los Angeles, California. (Bowditch Decl., ¶ 15.) As part
of the hiring and onboarding process, Defendant presented Plaintiff with the
Arbitration Agreement through its Onboarding Portal within its HRIS System.
(Bowditch Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) To access the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff was
required to click on a link in an email sent to his personal email address,
which he provided during the application process. (Bowditch Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Ex.
B.) Then, Plaintiff was required to create a unique password, which was known
only to him, and set up his unique user credentials within the Onboarding
Portal. (Bowditch Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) To review the Arbitration Agreement,
Plaintiff was required to review and acknowledge Defendant’s Notice and Consent
to Use Electronic Signatures; Plaintiff agreed to the use of his electronic
signature and then opened, viewed, and signed the Arbitration Agreement using
an electronic signature. (Bowditch Decl., ¶¶ 8–11, 15–19, Exs. A, D.) 
 
The Agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendant (referred to as the Company) “mutually consent to the
resolution by binding arbitration of all claims or causes of action that the
Company may have against [him] or that [he] may have against the Company or the
“Company’s” current and former owners, partners, members, officers, directors,
employees, representatives and agents, all subsidiary and affiliated entities,
all benefit plans, the benefit plans’ sponsors, fiduciaries, administrators,
affiliates, and all successors and assigns of any of them. (Bowditch Decl., Ex.
A.) The Agreement continues by stating Specifically, these claims include, but
are not limited to “claims for violation of any federal, state, local or other
law, statute, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation . . .
compensation, classification, minimum wage, seating, expense reimbursement,
overtime, meal breaks and rest periods[.]” (Bowditch Decl., Ex. A.)
 
            The
Arbitration Agreement further provides a class waiver which states, in
pertinent part: 
 
“This Agreement affects your
ability to participate in class or collective actions. Both the Company and
you agree to bring any dispute in arbitration on an individual basis only, and
not on a class or collective basis on behalf of others. There will be no right
or authority for any dispute to be brought, heard, or arbitrated as a class or
collective action, or as a member in any such class or collective proceeding (“Class Action Waiver”). Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Agreement or the JAMS Rules, disputes in court or arbitration
regarding the validity, enforceability or breach of the Class Action Waiver may
be resolved only by the court and not by an arbitrator. In any case in which
(1) the dispute is filed as a class or collective action and (2) there is a
final judicial determination that all or part of the Class Action Waiver is
unenforceable, the class and/or collective action to that extent must be
litigated in a civil court of competent jurisdiction, but the portion of the
Class Action Waiver that is enforceable shall be enforced in arbitration…
(Bowditch Decl., Ex. A, pp. 2–3 [emphasis in original].)
 
Finally, the Arbitration Agreement
states it “is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16.).” (Bowditch
Decl., Ex. A.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the arbitration
agreement or otherwise deny signing the agreement. Thus, there is no factual
dispute as to the existence of a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties. Rather, the dispute is whether Plaintiff’s claim is arbitrable under
the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Application of the Federal
Arbitration Act
 
The Arbitration
Agreement recites that it is governed by the FAA. But Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has not presented any evidence to support the application of the
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA). In its moving papers, Defendant argues – without evidence – that
it operates more than 100 service stations providing instant oil changes across
the state of California; further, these service stations utilize products and
supplies that are shipped from out of state, and these service centers provide
services to travelers from out-of-state. (Mot., 12:9-11.) In its reply, however,
Defendant submits evidence substantiating these statements. (Bowditch Reply
Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.) Thus, Defendant has submitted evidence to support the
applicability of the FAA. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff relies on Hoover v. American Income Life
Insurance Co.
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, to argue that the evidence fails to
demonstrate “that
interstate commerce is connoted by Plaintiff’s employment relationship with
Defendant.” (Opp., p. 2.)  In Hoover, the employee was a
life insurance agent located in California who sold policies for a Texas firm.
(Hoover, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at p. 1207.) Division Two of Fourth
District Court of Appeal held there was no evidence to show the employment
relationship “had a specific effect or ‘bear[ing] on interstate commerce in a
substantial way.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 1208.) 
 
As a preliminary matter, several
cases have declined to follow Hoover. (See e.g., Lane v. Francis Capital Management
LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 682; Evenskaas v. California Transit,
Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 297, fn. 5; Duarte v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, National Association (C.D. Cal., Nov. 15, 2021, No.
221CV01907ODWAFMX) 2021 WL 5299908, at *3 [“Moreover, to the extent Hoover,
a state appellate-level case, suggests the relationship between a single
employee and his or her employer must have ‘a specific effect or bearing on
interstate commerce in a substantial way,’ id. (quotation marks,
brackets, and citation omitted), the Court disagrees”].)
 
Moreover, the
discussion in Hoover regarding interstate commerce was dicta. In
refusing to enforce the arbitration agreement, the appellate court held the
defendant implicitly waived its right to arbitrate because, prior to moving to
compel arbitration, it had caused considerable delay, conducted litigation in a
style inconsistent with the right to arbitrate, and availed itself of
mechanisms not available at arbitration, such as depositions. (Id. at p.
1203-1204.) The court then further explained that even if defendant “had not
waived its right to assert arbitration, [the court] would [have] decide[d]
[defendant] could not compel arbitration” (id. at p. 1206) of
plaintiff's wage and hour claims because California law provides a judicial
forum for such claims “ ‘without regard to the existence of any private
agreement to arbitrate ...’ ” (Id. at p. 1207 [citing Labor Code, §
229].) The court noted that although this state law is inapplicable “when there
is federal preemption under the FAA,” the defendant had failed to provide
evidence demonstrating its contract with plaintiff had any effect on interstate
commerce. (Id. at pp. 1207–1208.) According to the court, the only
“facts” defendant had established were that plaintiff “was a California
resident who sold life insurance policies” and that the defendant was “based in
Texas.” (Ibid.) The court concluded that, standing alone, such facts
were insufficient to “demonstrate FAA coverage.” (Ibid.)
 
In any event,
as explained in Duarte v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
(C.D. Cal., Nov. 15, 2021, No. 221CV01907ODWAFMX) 2021 WL 5299908 – Hoover applies
a too narrow view of the applicability of the FAA. The U.S. Supreme Court has
clarified that “application of the FAA [is not defeated] because the individual
... transaction[ ], taken alone, did not have a ‘substantial effect on
interstate commerce.’ ” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S.
52, 56–57.) Rather, the question is whether the Defendant’s employment
relationships with its employees, considered in the aggregate, affect
interstate commerce.
 
Here, the
evidence for applicability of the FAA is sufficient. As the reply notes, Defendant
operates more than 100 service
centers across the state of California providing instant drive-through oil
changes and related automobile services. (Bowditch Reply Decl., ¶ 2.) The oil
received by Defendant’s service centers and sold to customers is blended and
manufactured outside the state of California, and then transported into
California for sale. Similarly, the oil filters received by Defendant’s service
centers and sold to customers are manufactured outside the state of California,
including as far away as China, and transported into California for sale.
(Bowditch Reply Decl., ¶ 2.) Additionally, the equipment used by Defendant’s service
center employees are manufactured and supplied from Oklahoma and the uniforms
are manufactured outside the state. (Bowditch Reply Decl., ¶ 3.) Finally,
Defendant’s service centers provide services to numerous travelers from outside
the State of California, who are traveling within California, and to travelers
who will be heading on travel outside the State of California following service
of their cars. (Bowditch Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Accordingly, the FAA applies to this
Arbitration Agreement.  The issue turns
to whether the Agreement applies to this cause of action.
 
The Arbitration Agreement does not
cover representative PAGA claims.
Plaintiff also argues that his PAGA claims
are expressly excluded from the Arbitration Agreement. The Agreement provides
that it does not apply to a “class or collective action.” Plaintiff is correct
and Defendant – to a certain extent – does not disagree. 
 
In reply, Defendant argues that a separate
provision of the Arbitration Agreement governs PAGA claims – not the Class
Action Waiver provision, described above. The Arbitration Agreement states: “Private
attorney general representative actions brought on behalf of the state under
the California Labor Code are not arbitrable, not within the scope of this
Agreement and may be maintained in a court of law, but a claim you bring on
your own behalf as an aggrieved employee for recovery of underpaid wages (as
opposed to a representative claim for civil penalties) is arbitrable.”
(Bowditch Decl., Ex. A at 2.) 
 
Plaintiff contends that there are no
claims he has brought on his own behalf to arbitrate.  He insists he is not seeking “individual/victim
specific relief or underpaid wages under this particular cause of action.” Thus,
Plaintiff takes the position that there is nothing to arbitrate and requests
the Court deny the motion and proceed with the representative PAGA claims.[1]

 
In
response, Defendant argues that a PAGA representative claim cannot exist
“solely on behalf of other alleged aggrieved employees.” 
 
 However, the recent case of Balderas v.
Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533 holds
that a plaintiff may have standing to bring a representative PAGA action
without filing an individual PAGA claim. In Balderas, the Court of
Appeal relied on our Supreme Court’s decision in Adolph to conclude that
“the Viking River requirement of having to file an individual PAGA cause
of action to achieve standing to file a representative PAGA suit was incorrect.”
(Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. __; 320 Cal.Rptr.3d 326, 329.)
Rather, there are only two requirements for PAGA standing: “The plaintiff must
allege that he or she is (1) ‘someone “who was employed by the alleged
violator” ’ and (2) someone ‘ “against whom one or more of the alleged
violations was committed.” ’ ” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1120.) 
 
The court in
Balderas continued by stating that requiring individual claims “ ‘would “thwart
the Legislature's clear intent to deputize employees to pursue sanctions on the
state's behalf.” ’ ” (Ibid.; see also Johnson v. Maxim Healthcare
Services, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 924, 281 Cal.Rptr.3d 478 [employee
need not bring an individual claim against her employer to have standing to
pursue a PAGA claim; it is sufficient to allege the employee suffered a Labor
Code violation].)” 


Based on
this legal authority and the relief sought in the First Amended Complaint, only
representative PAGA claims are alleged. 
No individual claims have been pleaded. By its terms, the Arbitration
Agreement does not cover the representative claims.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 


