 Case Number:  23STCV07410    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 1, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  September
16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Armanda Guerrero v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV07410
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Armanda Guerrero
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff, Armanda Guerrero, filed
this motion to compel Defendant, Kia America, Inc., to provide further
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16-21.  These production requests concern electronically
stored information (ESI) issues related to a purported powertrain defect.  Plaintiff does not seek sanctions.
 
On January 11, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
 
On January 23, 2024, the court continued the motion to allow
the parties to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).
 
The IDC was held on March 13, 2024.  The discovery dispute concerns Defendant’s purported
burden of producing electronically-stored information (ESI) and whether a
protective order is necessary to allow for a supplemental document
production.  The issues were not
resolved.  The court directed the parties
to meet and confer.  
 
On March 29, 2024, the parties met and conferred.  Following the meet and confer, the parties
separately filed a Status Report which indicated continued disagreement on
whether a protective order was necessary for supplemental document production. 
 
On April 9, 2024, the parties attended another IDC with the
court.  By agreement of the parties, the
court set a briefing schedule regarding the two discovery issues.
 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an untimely supplemental
brief.  Defendant has not filed a
supplemental opposition.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may
move for a further response to requests for production of documents where
an answer to the request is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is
without merit or too general.¿ The motion “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service
of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to
compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The
motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            According to the opposition, Defendant has agreed to provide
further responses to Requests for Production, Nos. 16, 18, and 21.  As such, the only at-issue discovery requests
are Nos. 17, 19 and 20.  
 
            No. 17: All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any communications YOU have had
regarding POWERTRAIN DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            No. 19: All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures,
and warranty claims related to POWERTRAIN DEFECT, including but not limited to
any databases in YOUR possession with information from dealers, service
departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and all documents
concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported failure in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            No. 20: All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of POWERTRAIN DEFECT.
 
            In relevant
part, Defendant objected to these requests on two grounds: (1) the scope of ESI
discovery is overbroad and is thus unduly burdensome and (2) a protective order
must be issued in order to protect Defendant’s trade secrets implicated by
these requests.
 
            Scope of
ESI Discovery
 
            The Addendum
to Case Management Conference Order Re: Song-Beverly Discovery.  Production Category 2(h) of the Addendum
states: 
 
“A
list or compilation of customer complaints in Defendant’s electronically stored
information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects
claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same year,
make and model of the subject vehicle. A substantially similar customer
complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard
indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description
listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other that
routine or scheduled maintenance items. The list provided by Defendant may be
in a chat or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair
visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’
reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names,
addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying
information.”
 
Plaintiff states she is willing to accept a document
production as to Nos. 17, 19, and 20 consistent with Production Category 2(h).  Given Plaintiff’s position and the lack of
opposition from Defendant, the court grants the motion as to Nos. 17, 19, and
20 consistent with Production Category 2(h). 

 
            Protective
Order
 
            “Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (b), provides a nonexclusive
list of permissible directions that may be included in a protective order. (Cf.
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).) A protective order may include the
direction that “a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or
commercial information not be disclosed or be disclosed only to specified
persons or only in a specified way.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(13);
cf. Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b)(5).)”  (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank Nat'l Tr. Co. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.)  “[T]he burden
is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever
order is sought.”  (Id. at p.
318.)
 
            Here,
Defendant does not carry its burden to show good cause for a protective
order.  Defendant states without
demonstrating how the at-issue discovery requests implicate Defendant’s trade
secrets or confidential information. A protective order is therefore not
warranted.  Defendant, having not filed a
supplemental opposition addressing this, or any other issue, does not submit
any argument or authority directing a different result.  Defendant must provide further responses to
Nos 17, 19, and 20.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion as to Request for Production Nos. 17, 19,
and 20 is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered
to provide further responses to Nos. 17, 19 and 20 within 45 days of this
order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion as to Request for Production Nos. 16, 18, and 21 is MOOT.
 
            Plaintiff
to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   May 1, 2024                          




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 