  Case Number:  22STCV04087    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 1, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  March
10, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Caiden Caldwell, a
minor, as Successor-in-Interest to the Estate of Darrell Caldwell p/k/a Drakeo
the Ruler v. Live Nation World Wide, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV04087
 





















 
APPLICATION
TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Applicant
James D. Murdock
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On April 5, 2024, Applicant, James D. Murdock, filed this
application to appear pro hac vice on behalf of Defendants, Major League
Soccer, LLC a/k/a Los Angeles Football Club a/k/a LAFC, in this action.
 
            The
application is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)¿ 
¿ 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence
and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted
to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of
good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in
which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            James
D. Murdock seeks a court order allowing him to appear as counsel pro hac vice
to represent Defendants in this action.¿ 
¿ 
Upon review, the Court finds the application
complies with California Rules of Court, rule 9.40.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, the unopposed
application is GRANTED.  It is ordered that James D. Murdock be admitted
to appear as counsel pro hac vice for the purpose of representing Defendants
Major League Soccer, LLC a/k/a Los Angeles Football Club a/k/a LAFC in this action.¿
Applicant shall be subject to all applicable rules of this Court. 
 
Moving party to give
notice.¿ 
 
 
Dated:   May 1, 2024                                   




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 