 Case Number:  22STCV81116    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



GEOFF LOUI, et al., 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
STATE
  OF CALIFORNIA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV18116
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE, FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE, AND ALL
  TRIAL RELATED DATES
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  6, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant the People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation (“Moving
Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from Plaintiffs Geoff Loui and Rich Hirschinger (“Plaintiffs”)
losing control of their bicycles and crashing on Pacific Coast Highway due to dangerous
roadway defect. On June 2, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against
Defendants State of California, County of Los Angeles (“County”), City of Malibu
(“City”), and DOES 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) premises
liability and (2) general negligence. 
On
August 2, 2022, Defendant County filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
August 12, 2022, pursuant to a request for dismissal filed by Plaintiffs,
Defendant City was dismissed from this action with prejudice. 
On
August 17, 2022, pursuant to a request for dismissal filed by Plaintiffs,
Defendant County was dismissed from this action with prejudice.
On
October 28, 2022, Defendant, The People of the State of California, acting by
and through the Department of Transportation (erroneously sued and served as
“State of California”) (“Moving Defendant”) filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
April 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to complaint which identified
Verizon Business Network Services, LLC as DOE 1. Also, on April 17, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed amendments to complaint with identified Ridgeline Telecom, LLC
as DOE 2 and MCIMetro Access Transmission Services, LLC (“MCI”) as DOE 3. 
On
July 7, 2023, Cellco Partnership dba Verizon Wireless (“Verizon”) (erroneously
sued as “Verizon Business Network Services, LLC”) filed an answer to the
complaint. 
On
September 28, 2023, the Court entered a stipulation and order which continued
trial from November 30, 2023 to April 5, 2024. 
On
January 3, 2024, MCI filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
January 17, 2024, Moving Defendant filed and served the instant motion for an
order to continue the trial date, final status conference, and all trial related
cut-off dates from March 22, 2024[1]
to March 2025, or a date that the Court deems to be appropriate for its
calendar (the “Motion”).
The
Motion is unopposed. However, the Court notes that the Motion was not filed and
served at least 16 days prior to the hearing as required by Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b). Moving Defendant filed and served the Motion on January 17,
2024 with a hearing date of February 6, 2024. The Motion was filed and served only
14 court days prior to the hearing. 
 
II.    LEGAL STANDARD 
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he power to determine when a
continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when
determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court
considers factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Issue No.1: Good Cause 
          Evidence
in Support of the Motion
          Counsel for
Moving Defendant, Nusha F. Ahmed (“Ahmed”)[2],
declares that Mr. Arthur Javier has been the assigned counsel since the
inception of this case and handled the matter even before Moving Defendant made
its first appearance. (Ahmed Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Javier is most familiar with the
facts and progress of this case and conducting trial in his absence would
highly prejudice the interest of Moving Defendant. (Id.) Since Moving
Defendant made its first appearance, it has diligently investigated the claims
made by Plaintiffs by conducting an internal investigation. (Id., ¶ 9.)
During such investigation, Moving Defendant recently became aware of possible
involvement by LADWP and based on such investigation, Moving Defendant believes
that it is in its best interest to bring a formal cross-complaint against LADWP
to conduct formal discovery and properly litigate the complaint. (Id.,
¶¶ 10-12.) The parties have stipulated once to continue trial, which occurred
on September 28, 2023. (Id., ¶ 8.) Counsel states that good cause exists
to continue the trial date because Moving Defendant will suffer irreparable
harm if it is not allowed to conduct extensive discovery prior to the current
trial date of April 5, 2024. (Id., ¶ 14.)  
          Analysis
          The Court
finds that Moving Defendant has shown good cause to continue trial. Moving
Defendant has indicated that its trial counsel, Mr. Javier, is absent from this
action and to conduct trial in his absence would prejudice Moving Defendant.
Also, Moving Defendant needs to conduct extensive discovery to investigate any
possible claims against LADWP. LADWP has stopped all informal communication
with Moving Defendant. (Ahmed Decl., ¶ 12.) The Court finds that Moving
Defendant has been diligent in investigating Plaintiffs’ claims but has not
obtained all necessary discovery.
          However,
despite the showing of good cause, the Court cannot grant the Motion. Moving
Defendant did not file and serve the Motion at least 16 court days prior to the
hearing as required pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b). 
          Moreover,
according to the proof of service, there is no indication that the Motion was
served on Defendant Ridgeline Telecom, LLC, who has yet to file an answer but
has been served with the summons and complaint. 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the Court CONTINUES the
hearing on the Motion to Wednesday, March 6, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in this
department so that Moving Defendant can provide proper notice of the Motion to
all interested parties and can provide notice of the hearing with the
appropriate timeliness pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b). 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
         Dated
this 6th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


