 Case Number:  22STCV06145    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MARVELETTE CALBERT, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
INTERNATIONAL
  TRANSPORTATION SERVICE, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV06145
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO
  COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION ATTENDANCE
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  6, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant International Transportation
Service, LLC (“Defendant”)     
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from Plaintiff Marvelette Calbert (“Plaintiff”) sustaining
injuries when a window fell onto her left hand on January 4, 2021. On February
17, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant International
Transportation Service, LLC (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 20, alleging a
cause of action for negligence. 
On
March 24, 2022, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
August 18, 2022, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney form indicating
that Plaintiff was now self-represented. 
On
October 9, 2023, after hearing, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One. (10/09/23 Minute Order.) The Court ordered Plaintiff “to provide verified,
objection-free responses to . . . Defendant’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, within 30 days of [the Court’s] order.” (10/09/23 Minute
Order at p. 2.) 
On
December 4, 2023, Defendant filed and served the instant motion for terminating
sanctions or, in the alternative, motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to
attend her deposition and produce any requested documents, to be scheduled
within 45 days of the Court’s order.
Defendant’s
motion is unopposed. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been
filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
Defendant
has met and conferred as required under Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 as to its
request to compel Plaintiff to attend deposition and produce documents. (Trucios
Decl., ¶ 13.) 
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD 
          “If a party .
. . fails to obey [an] order compelling a response, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of . . . a terminating
sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) Terminating sanctions may
be imposed against a party engaging in misuse of the discovery process. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) 
“The discovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “Discovery sanctions should
be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required
to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.)
“[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.)
Where discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.) A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)  
“The service of a deposition notice
under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to
the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to
attend and to testify, as well as produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection . .
. fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)

If a motion under Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(a) is granted “the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in
favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          Counsel for
Defendant Paula Andrea Trucios (“Trucios”) declares that Plaintiff has not
provided responses to Set One of Defendant’s Request for Production of
Documents. (Trucios Decl., ¶ 9.) Counsel states that on October 9, 2023,
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Set One of Defendant’s
Request for Production of Documents was granted, and Plaintiff was ordered to
provide verified, objection-free responses to such discovery within 30 days of
such order. (Id., ¶ 15 and Exhibit F.) Defendant sent Plaintiff notice
of the Court’s October 9, 2023 order. (Id., ¶ 16 and Exhibit G.)
Defendant re-sent a copy of Set One of Defendant’s Request for Production to
Plaintiff upon Plaintiff’s request. (Id., ¶ 17.) 
Trucios also declares that on September
18, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with a Notice of Videotaped Deposition
with Demands for Inspection, to be held on October 3, 2023 at 10:00 a.m.
(Trucios Decl., ¶ 10; Exhibit D.) Plaintiff did not object to the Notice of
Videotaped Deposition with Demands for Inspection. (Id., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff,
however, failed to appear for her deposition and an Affidavit of Nonappearance
of Witness was produced by the court reporter. (Id., ¶ 12 and Exhibit
E.) Following the deposition, Trucios spoke with Plaintiff by phone, in which
Plaintiff claimed that she was unaware that her deposition had been scheduled
or that it was scheduled for October 3, 2023. (Id., ¶ 13.) Trucios
declares that on several occasions during phone conversations, she confirmed
with Plaintiff that the address and email for Plaintiff in Defendant’s file are
correct. (Id., ¶ 14.) 
 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has failed to comply with the Court’s October 9, 2023
order. Plaintiff had notice of this Court’s October 9, 2023 order. Due to that notice
and the lack of opposition to the motion, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
failure to comply was willful. 
          Further,
Plaintiff failed to comply with the Deposition Notice.  And, Defendant has failed to oppose this
Motion.  Given the two failures to comply
with discovery, the failure to comply with a court order regarding the written
discovery, and the failure to file any opposition to the Motion, the Court finds
that less severe sanctions than terminating sanctions would not be effective
and GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
terminating sanctions. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
         Dated
this 6th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 