 Case Number:  21STCV43511    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEONARDA
  GUADALUPE DUENEZ AGUILAR, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY OF
  SIGNAL HILL, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV43511
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO TAKE A SUBSEQUENT DEPOSITION OF THOMAS BEKELE


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
February 6,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
On November 29, 2021, Plaintiff Leonarda
Guadalupe Duenez Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) initiated this premises liability action
against Defendant City of Signal Hill (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that, on
February 6, 2020 around 9:22 p.m., she was walking near the intersection of 1999
Stanley Avenue and 20th Street in the City of Signal Hill wherein she
encountered a defect and raised sidewalk slab that caused her to fall and
sustain injuries. (Compl. ¶ 8.) It is further alleged that the sidewalk
constituted a dangerous condition, and Defendant “negligently and carelessly
owned, leased, inspected, operated, managed, maintained, repaired and/or
controlled” the subject premises. (Id. at ¶¶ 9-10.)
On January 11, 2022, Defendant filed its answer
to the Complaint. 
On October 3, 2023, Defendant filed the instant
motion for leave to take the subsequent deposition of Thomas Bekele,
Defendant’s designated Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”). On January 9, 2024,
Defendant filed a supplemental memorandum in support of the instant motion
indicating that it does not seek to change Mr. Bekele’s deposition testimony
but to be allowed to introduce documents that were found after his August 1,
2023 deposition, which supports Defendant’s affirmative defense under
Government Code § 835.4(b). 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
opposition. No reply has been filed. 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.610 states that
once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, neither that
party who gave nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice
may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc § 2025.610(a).)  However, the Court may grant leave to take a
subsequent deposition upon good cause shown, or the parties with the consent of
the deponent may stipulate to a subsequent deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc § 2025.610(b).)  Section 2025.610 does not preclude taking a
subsequent deposition of a natural person who was previously examined as a
result of that person’s designation to testify on behalf of the organization
under section 2025.230 or the person was examined pursuant to a court order
under section 485.230.  (Code Civ. Proc §
2025.610(c).)   
III.            
DISCUSSION
Defendant seeks leave to conduct a subsequent
deposition of Mr. Thomas Bekele, who was designated as its PMQ. (See Notice of
Motion at pg. 2.) As a preliminary matter, because Mr. Bekele was initially
deposed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.230, Defendant would not be
precluded from taking the deposition of Mr. Bekele in his individual capacity
pursuant to the exception provided under Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.610(c)(1).
Assuming that leave of court is necessary to
conduct Mr. Bekele’s subsequent deposition in his capacity as a PMQ, the Court must
find that good cause exists to warrant this relief. Based on Defendant’s motion
and supplemental memorandum, the PMQ on the issue of Defendant’s history of
sidewalk inspections and maintenance is Mr. Bekele because the only person with
more knowledge was Defendant’s former Public Works Maintenance Supervisor, Ms.
Deborah Mestaz, but she passed away on November 15, 2022. (Motion, Barer Decl.
¶¶ 3, 5-6; Suppl. Memorandum, Bekele Decl. ¶¶ 2-10.) At the time of Mr.
Bekele’s deposition as Defendant’s PMQ on August 1, 2023, he had limited
knowledge regarding the inspection and maintenance history of the subject
sidewalk, and despite best efforts, he was unable to find the necessary
historical records that would have been pertinent to the deposition. (Bekele
Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) It was not until October 13and 18, 2023 that Mr. Bekele
discovered files relating to Defendant’s sidewalk inspections during various
years in the 2000s and 2010s in Ms. Mestaz’s old desk and file cabinets.
(Bekele Decl. ¶¶ 12-13, Exh. A.) Upon this discovery, Mr. Bekele provided the
documents to Defendant’s counsel of record. (Ibid.) Moreover, Defendant
argues that the introduction of these newly found documents would not amount to
the introduction of a new legal theory, but instead, it would constitute the
continued development of an existing legal theory. (Motion at pg. 7.)
In opposition, Plaintiff raises several
arguments as to why the instant motion should be denied. None of them are
availing. First, Plaintiff contends that Defendant had an obligation to produce
the person most qualified to testify on the issue of Defendant’s history of
sidewalk repairs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.230, and that Mr.
Bekele was required to make an inquiry to everyone who might possess responsive
documents. (Opposition at pp. 5-6, relying on Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002)
94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1396.) As indicated in the moving papers, the only person
with more knowledge than the Mr. Bekele, who is Defendant’s Director of Public
Works, was Ms. Mestaz, but because she passed away on November 15, 2022, Mr.
Bekele could not communicate with her about topics that would have been
relevant to his deposition. (See Bekele Decl. ¶¶ 2, 7-11; del Rosario Decl. ¶
3; Catal Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, Exh. A.) Thus, the Court does not find that Defendant
failed to abide by its obligations under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.230.
Second, Plaintiff argues that allowing a
subsequent deposition would violate Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.520.
(Opposition at pp. 6-7.) Considering Section 2025.520 refers to a deponent’s
obligation to approve a deposition transcript, Plaintiff fails to explain how a
subsequent deposition would alter Mr. Bekele’s prior testimony. As stated in
the moving papers, the purpose of the subsequent deposition is to introduce
newly discovery historical documents that were not previously available.
Plaintiff’s claim that this is an attempt to rehabilitate Mr. Bekele’s
testimony is conclusory and speculative. 
Third, Plaintiff argues that the subsequent
deposition would be a sham and amount to an abuse of the discovery process
because the historical documents are only now being produced long after they
had been requested in written discovery. (Opposition at pp. 8-10.) However, as
stated above, Mr. Bekele was unaware of the location of the historical
documents that he had discovered in October 2023 because Ms. Mestaz retired and
passed away before Mr. Bekele’s deposition took place.
Fourth, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed
to conduct due diligence in searching of the historical records and should not
be afforded an opportunity to present the recently discovered documents.
(Opposition at pp. 10-11.) While there has been a delay in producing the
historical documents, the Court does not find that Defendant failed to exercise
diligence. As represented in Mr. Bekele’s declaration, the only person who
would have known the location of these historical documents was Ms. Mestaz, but
she retired in December 2021 before passing away on November 15, 2022. (Bekele
Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.) While Defendant may be faulted for not keeping its records
organized and easily locatable, Defendant acted diligently upon discovering the
historical documents.
Fifth, Plaintiff contends that Defendant has
not established good cause to take Mr. Bekele’s subsequent deposition and
reasons that this second deposition is only meant to rehabilitate Defendant’s
position. (Opposition at pp. 11-12.) The Court does not find this argument
persuasive. Nothing has been presented to the Court to show that Defendant was
willfully hiding evidence or did not exercise diligence in locating these
historical documents. Moreover, this suggestion defies logic considering that
the evidence discovered would be important to one of Defendant’s defense
theories.  Moreover, discovery is broader
than admissibility. (Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)
If there are issues regarding the admissibility of these documents, then those
issues are best reserved for the time near trial. 
Lastly, Plaintiff claims that she will be
irreparably prejudiced if the motion were granted because it will cause
Plaintiff to conduct further discovery and incur additional costs. (Opposition
at pg. 13.) However, Defendant has maintained through this case an affirmative
defense pursuant to Government Code § 835.4(b), and the documents that were
recently discovered would support that affirmative defense. Thus, any
strategies or further discovery and their related costs would have been
anticipated. Moreover, there is sufficient time to conduct additional
discovery, if necessary, because trial is set for June 10, 2024. 
Accordingly, because good cause exists and
Plaintiff will not be prejudiced as a result, the Court grants the instant
motion. 
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s Motion for
Leave to Take the Subsequent Deposition of Thomas Bekele is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 6th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 