 Case Number:  22STCV29466    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ABDULMALIK ABDAN, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
VALET-IT
  PARKING SERVICES, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV29466
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  6, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Abdulmalik Abdan (“Plaintiff”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from the totaling of Plaintiff Abdulmalik Abdan’s (“Plaintiff”)
2012 Audi A6 (the “Subject Vehicle”) by Defendant Valet-It Parking Services
(“VIPS”). On September 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant
VIPS and DOES 1 to 30, alleging causes of action for: (1) general negligence
and (2) motor vehicle. The complaint alleges, in part, that on September 2,
2021, Defendant VIPS negligently parked the Subject Vehicle in an improper
parking spot and thereafter Defendant VIPS crashed another vehicle into the
Subject Vehicle. (Complaint, p.4.)  
On
November 4, 2022, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint which identified Khaled
Hawary (“Hawary”) as DOE 1. 
On
January 23, 2023, Defendant Hawary filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
January 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant unopposed motion to
consolidate the instant action with Wawanesa General Insurance Company vs.
Valet-It Parking Services, LASC Case No. 23STLC00476 (the “Wawanesa
Action”) for all purposes (the “Motion”). The Motion was served on all
interested parties including Defendant VIPS; however, Defendant VIPS has not
been served with the summons and complaint in this action
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related Case indicating that the
instant action and the Wawanesa Action are related. 
On
January 31, 2024, the Court issued an Order re: Related Cases. The Court found
that the instant action and the Wawanesa Action are related and stated that the
instant action is the lead case. (01/31/24 Minute Order.) 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a) provides that
“[w]hen actions involve a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” “The purpose of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience
and economy by avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of
issues common to both actions.” (Estate
of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485, citation omitted.) “A
consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of the parties.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) Consolidation
does not require identical causes of action in each case, absolute identity of
the parties, or identical allegations. (Ibid.)
There are two types of consolidation. (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000)
22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) There is “a consolidation for purposes of trial only,
where the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation
or consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are merged into a
single proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set
of findings and one judgment.” (Ibid., citations omitted.) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
In support of the Motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel, Yeva Haroutunian, Esq. (“Haroutunian”), declares that the instant
action was commenced on September 9, 2022, and the Wawanesa Action was
commenced on January 20, 2023. (Haroutunian Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Both actions
involve claims for negligence and property damage to vehicles involved in the
same collision at 6200 Variel Avenue, Woodland Hills, CA 91367. (Id., ¶
5.) Counsel attests that consolidation of the actions will avoid the risk of
inconsistent judgments, reduce the costs and delays resulting from multiple
trials, and conserve judicial resources. (Id., ¶ 6.) Counsel states that
consolidation will neither unduly complicate the trial of this action nor
result in any confusion because both actions involve the same witnesses and
evidence. (Id., ¶ 7.) Counsel indicates that consolidation is necessary
because both cases involve the same parties and subject matter. (Id., ¶
8.)
The complaint in the Wawanesa Action is
attached as Exhibit 2 to Haroutunian’s declaration in support of the Motion and
is therefore before the Court. The Court finds that the instant action and the
Wawanesa Action both arise from the September 2, 2021, incident where the
parties’ vehicles were allegedly damaged due to the actions of Defendant VIPS.
In fact, the complaint in the Wawanesa Action raises a cause of action for
general negligence and references Plaintiff. (Haroutunian Decl., Exhibit 2.) 
Thus, the negligence of Defendant VIPS
is at issue in this action and the Wawanesa Action. Both cases concern
Plaintiff and Defendant VIPS and arise from the same incident. Also, the Court
has deemed the instant action as related to the Wawanesa Action. Moreover,
given that the Motion is unopposed, there is an inference it has merit under Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.  The Court finds that consolidation is
appropriate. The Motion is therefore GRANTED.  
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The
Court GRANTS the Motion and consolidates the instant action and the Wawanesa
Action for all purposes. 
Further,
based on its review of the case files in these consolidated actions, the Court finds
that Defendant VIPS has not been served with the summons and complaint.  The Court therefore sets an OSC re: failure
to file proof of service as to the summons and complaint for February XX, 2024, at XXXX.
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
         Dated
this 6th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 