

 
TENTATIVE
            Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED and Defendant’s Motion to
Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 

Background
            This
case commenced after Araceli Castelan (Plaintiff) filed an initial Complaint on
July 31, 2023, alleging that she was attacked by dogs owned by Shianti Lee
(Defendant) and suffered injury. After a prior motion to strike was granted, Plaintiff
then filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November 1, 2023, alleging that
on April 22, 2022, Plaintiff was walking her dog outside her home when Defendant’s
two large dogs attacked her. (FAC, ¶ 9.) The FAC alleges two causes of action:
(1) strict liability, and (2) negligence. Defendant now files the instant
Demurrer and Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
opposes both, and Defendant filed a reply for each.    
 
Discussion
 
Meet and Confer
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a); see
also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).)
Defendant provides the Declaration of Leon A. Victor which states that on
November 27, 2023, Defense counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer
letter. It appears that a response was never received and that the parties
never conferred, telephonically or otherwise. However, per CCP § 430.41(a)(4),
“A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (see also CCP §
435.5(a)(4) imposing similar rule on courts for a motion to strike.)   
 
Legal Standard for Demurrer
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
            A general demurrer
cannot be used to test the sufficiency of punitive damages allegations.  See Weil & Brown, California
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, Section 6:169.
 
Legal Standard for Motion to Strike
            The court
may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
 
            A motion to strike any pleading must
be filed “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after
service of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or
stipulation. [CCP § 435(b)(1)]. This does not affect the court's power to
strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading upon
a motion or at any time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)
 
      Motions to strike punitive damages may be granted
where the alleged facts do not support conclusions of malice, fraud or
oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  Specific
facts must be pled in support of punitive damages.  (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.)
 
 
Analysis for Demurrer and Motion to Strike
            Defendant uses both the Demurrer and
Motion to Strike to take aim at the request for punitive damages. As such, no
attack is made on the sufficiency as to the causes of action themselves, solely
on whether Plaintiff’s allegations plead sufficient facts to support a request
for punitive damages. Both the Demurrer and Motion to Strike present similar
arguments: Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not plead any facts to support
allegations of malice, fraud, or oppression.  
 
                               
i.           
Punitive
Damages
            CIV
§ 3294 governs punitive damages and provides the following: 
 
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (CIV §
3294(a).)
 
CIV §
3294(c)(1) provides the following definitions shall apply to this section:
 
(1)
“Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
 
(2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
 
(3)
“Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.
 
 
                             
ii.           
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged Defendant
acted with malice
                  Plaintiff contends in her opposition
papers that though Defendant’s conduct may have not been intentional, intention
is not a required element of malice. Plaintiff supports this contention by
citing Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
1270, 1299, which states that “nonintentional torts support punitive damages
when the defendant's conduct involves conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others.” (internal quotes omitted.) Moreover, “[u]nder the statute,
malice does not require actual intent to harm. Conscious disregard for the
safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully
fails to avoid such consequences.” (Ibid. (Internal quotations and
citations omitted).) 
 
            The FAC asserts that
before Plaintiff was attacked, a prior incident occurred. On February 22, 2022,
Defendant’s dogs were unleashed and unrestrained when they ran outside and
attacked an Amazon delivery person. (FAC, ¶ 19-20.) The FAC additionally
asserts that Defendant knew about this attack and was aware of her dogs
attacking other neighbors within the neighborhood. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Then Plaintiff
suffered the attack at issue on April 22, 2022, which hospitalized her. (FAC,
¶¶ 9 & 11.)
 
            The FAC thus attempts to
allege that Defendant was aware of prior attacks and the dangerous propensities
of her dogs. However, as to the attacks on other neighbors, the FAC is
unspecific. The only specific allegation is the one involving the Amazon delivery
man. , That incident alone does not cause the current incident to rise to the
level of being despicable.  The other
allegations to support the punitive damages claim do not include the “who,
what, where, when” required for specific pleading. See Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996), 12 Cal. 4th 631, 645.  The Court thus finds more is needed to rise to that
level. The current allegations are insufficient to move forward at the pleading
stage with punitive damages.  
 
Conclusion
            For
the foregoing reasons Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED and Defendant’s Motion to Strike
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff may seek leave to amend to allege
punitive damages if Plaintiff develops sufficient facts in discovery to so
allege.  
 
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
 