 Case Number:  22STCV32870    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



PATRICIA DELGADO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
FEDERAL
  EXPRESS CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV32870
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER FOR CHANGE OF VENUE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  6, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Federal Express Corporation (“FEC”)
and Sergio Jimenez (“Jimenez”) (collectively “Moving Defendants”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on March 29, 2021.
On October 6, 2022, Plaintiff Patricia Delgado (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Federal Express Corporation (“FEC”), Federal Express, Sergio
Jimenez (“Jimenez”), and DOES 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for: (1)
motor vehicle negligence, negligent entrustment, negligent training, negligent
hiring, negligent undertaking, negligent supervision, and negligent retention;
and (2) negligence per se. 
On
September 7, 2023, Defendant FEC filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
October 20, 2023, Defendants FEC and Jimenez (collectively “Moving Defendants”)
filed and served the instant unopposed motion for an order changing venue and
transferring this action to the Superior Court of California, County of Riverside
(the “Motion”). Pursuant to the Motion, Moving Defendants also seek monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $810.00. 
The
Motion is made on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff lives in Riverside County,
(2) the accident occurred on the I-15 Freeway in Corona, California, and (3)
Jimenez, who is an FEC driver, was driving to the FEC warehouse and was
traveling through Corona, California at the time of the incident. 
On
October 24, 2023, a joint stipulation for change of venue was filed and served which
indicates that the parties agree that the Superior Court of California, County
of Riverside is the proper venue for trial of this action. The joint stipulation
was not filed with a proposed order. 
On
November 8, 2023, Moving Defendants filed and served a notice of taking the
Motion off-calendar. 
On
November 15, 2023, Defendant Jimenez filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
December 12, 2023, Moving Defendants filed and served a proposed order to
change venue. Such proposed order provides that “[pursuant to stipulation]
previously filed by and between the Plaintiff and [Moving] Defendants . . . the
parties agree that the Superior Court of California, County of Riverside is the
proper venue for trial of this action.” (Proposed Order to Change Venue,
1:19-22.) The proposed order further states that “Defendants shall pay the
applicable transfer fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 399.” (Id.,
1:23.)
 
II.         
DISCUSSION

The parties have filed a joint
stipulation to change venue, and Moving Defendants filed a notice indicating
that the Motion is taken off-calendar.
As such, the Court finds that the
Motion is MOOT and is taken OFF-CALENDAR. 
 
 
 
III.    CONCLUSION 
Accordingly, the motion of Moving
Defendants to change venue and transfer this action to the Superior Court of
California, County of Riverside is MOOT and is taken OFF-CALENDAR.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
         Dated
this 6th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 