  Case Number:  21STCV08600    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



Gustavo A. cordoba, an individual, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
S.W. SCHOOL SUPPLY, INC., a California Corporation;
  noe rodriguez, an individual; DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV08600
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  6, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
           This case arises out of an automobile
collision. 
On December
27, 2023, plaintiff Gustavo A. Cordoba moved to quash deposition subpoena
issued to Rockpoint Legal Funding. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A
deposition subpoena may be quashed for the following:¿(1)
defects in form or content of the subpoena (e.g., inadequate description of
requested records); (2) defects in service of the subpoena (e.g., failure to
satisfy the requirements of providing notice to consumer); (3) requesting¿production
of records not within the permissible scope of discovery, i.e. privileged,
privacy or attorney work product; or not “relevant to the subject matter”; (4)
being unjustly burdensome or oppressive; (5) with regard to
requested ESI discovery, objection to the specified form for
producing the ESI (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.8(c)) or
objection to production on the ground that the ESI is from a source that is not
reasonably accessible because of undue burden and expense (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.8(e)); (6)
“consumer’s” right of privacy in “personal records” (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.3(e)); and (7)
employee’s right of privacy in “employment records” (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.6(e).)¿
(Weil & Brown,¿Civ. Proc. Before Trial,
¶¿8:598.) Further, a
court may quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect
parties, witnesses, or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands
including violations of privacy.  (Code
Civ. Pro., §1987.1.)
III.     DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves to quash the deposition
subpoena because the request invades Plaintiff’s privacy, infringes upon
attorney work-product protections, and is not relevant to any cause of action
or defense. 
Defendants S.W. School Supply, Inc. and
Noe Rodriguez request, ““Records pertaining to Gustavo Adolfo
Cordoba aka Gustavo A. Cordoba, including but not limited to, applications,
forms, case review, agreements, contracts, records of contact, correspondence,
correspondence with the client’s legal counsel, records of payments made to
Gustavo Adolfo Cordoba, payment summaries, medical liens, if any, and records
of payment to medical providers, if any. To include scanned documents,
documents stored electronically, digitally, on flash drive, hard drive, or
other storage device.” (Hanks Decl. ¶ 5, Exhibit “B.”)
A.
Relevance 
All
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of
the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial
or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  (Code Civ. Pro. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Super. Ct. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704,
711.)  For discovery purposes, information is relevant
if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Super. Ct.
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) The burden is on the party seeking
constitutionally protected information to establish direct
relevance.  (Harris v.
Super. Ct. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.)
Defendant
asserts that the subpoena seeks information related to pre-settlement funding
to Plaintiff, medical treatment or medical lien funding, case costs, and client
funding to law firms. Defendant further asserts that such information could
prove relevant to determine bias or financial incentives of potential witnesses
as it relates to the reasonable and necessary expenses of Plaintiff’s medical
treatments. Defendant also asserts that given Plaintiff’s extensive medical
treatment because of the accident, such information could prove beneficial to
reaching a settlement. In addition, Defendant asserts that if Plaintiff has
taken a “loan” out on the case in the form of pre-settlement funding or
advances, this can impede settlement of the case. Based on Defendant’s
assertions, the Court finds that the information sought in the subpoena request
is relevant. 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s
request violates the attorney work product doctrine because a plaintiff’s
communications regarding litigation funding falls under the attorney work protection.
In addition, Plaintiff asserts that an attorney’s assessments of a case reflect
the attorney’s mental impressions and strategic funding; thus, they also fall
under the protection. 
In opposition, Defendant argues that
because Rockpoint Legal Funding is a non-party witness, communications with
Rockpoint Legal Funding by Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel are not protected
under the work product doctrine. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff does not
identify which part or parts of Defendant’s request are about attorney assessment
of the case and hence, which part of Defendant’s requests fall under the
attorney work product protection. In addition, the Court finds that a
plaintiff’s communications regarding litigation funding does not automatically
qualify for attorney work product. 
Thus, the Court denies the motion to
quash subpoena on this ground. 
B. Privacy 
When
the information sought to be discovered impacts a person’s constitutional right
to privacy, limited protections come into play for that person.  (Shaffer v. Super. Ct. (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.)  The protections cover both a person’s personal
and financial matters.  (Id.)  The court
must balance competing rights — the
right of a litigant to discover relevant facts and the right of an individual
to maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is
discoverable.  (Id.) 
The party asserting a
privacy interest must establish its extent and the seriousness of the
prospective invasion, and against that showing the court must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies. (Williams
v. Super. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) What suffices to justify an
invasion will vary according to the context. (Id.) Only obvious
invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest. (Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1,34-35.)
Plaintiff asserts that
he possesses a privacy interest in any information pertaining to litigation
funding. Plaintiff further asserts that compliance with the subpoena could
reveal sensitive details regarding Plaintiff’s finances, attorney-client
communications, and privileged discourse regarding the case. Plaintiff also
asserts that the funding agreement contains confidentiality provisions. In
addition, Plaintiff asserts that the vague and overbroad subpoena threatens
Plaintiff’s privacy. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff
has not established the extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion. As
discussed above, there is a right to privacy to a person’s financial matters. Plaintiff
asserts this point but does not state more. Further, Plaintiff does not state
more about the extent of the prospective invasion.  Without knowing more about the prospective
invasion, the Court cannot determine its seriousness. 
Further, Plaintiff has
not stated which part of the request seeks information that violates
Plaintiff’s right to privacy. In its opposition papers, Defendant has clarified
what the request seeks. 
Finally, the
attorney-client communication privilege, other discovery privileges, and
confidentiality provisions do not fall under the constitutional right to
privacy. 
The Court denies the
motion to quash on this ground.  
          C. Sanctions 
The court may, in its discretion, order the
losing party to pay the prevailing party's expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees, incurred on the motion to quash, if it finds that the motion was “made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Pro., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) 
While the Court has denied the motion, the Court finds that the
motion was not made in bad faith or without substantial justification.  Discovery related to litigation funding is
not well-developed, so Plaintiff’s motion is reasonable.  Here, the problem is that the moving party has
failed to develop the arguments he makes, not that the arguments are necessarily
inappropriate or unjustified. 
Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The motion to quash is denied and the competing requests for
sanctions are also denied.   
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated
this 6th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 