 Case Number:  23SMCV00591    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Jane Doe 1 v.
Weinstein, Case No. 23SMCV00591
Hearing Date
October 11, 2023 
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Protective Order & Motion for Order Allowing Financial Discovery
 
On December 19,
2022 defendant Weinstein was convicted of raping plaintiff Jane Doe, who sues
based on that assault. Plaintiff seeks orders barring liability discovery and
allowing discovery into Weinstein’s financial condition. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Protective Order
Any issue decided
in a prior criminal proceeding is conclusively determined as to the parties in
a subsequent civil action. Teitelbaum Furs, Inc. v. Dominion Ins. Co., Ltd. (1962)
58 Cal.2d 601. A felony conviction is exempt from the hearsay rule in a civil
action, even if the conviction is under appeal. Principal Life Ins. Co. v.
Peterson (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 676. A judgment is not final for purposes
of collateral estoppel while it is under appeal. Abelson v. National Union
Vire Ins. Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 776, 787-788.
 
Doe argues the
conviction conclusively establishes the facts underlying her lawsuit, so under Teitelbaum
and Peterson, liability cannot be re-litigated, making liability
discovery irrelevant. Peterson deals with admissibility, i.e. whether a
prior criminal conviction is admissible as a hearsay exception. Per Abelson,
a prior criminal conviction has no collateral estoppel effect until it is
no longer subject to appeal. 
 
Doe argues a criminal
conviction can be used to prove “any fact essential for a civil judgment[.]”
The court agrees. Per Peterson, Weinstein’s prior conviction is
admissible as proof of his liability for sexual battery. 
 
However, Doe does
not cite authority that a civil defendant is estopped from disputing liability
while a prior criminal conviction arising out of the same facts is on appeal.
Collateral estoppel does not apply, so Doe’s motion for a protective order is
premature until the criminal conviction is no longer subject to appeal. It is
not proper for the court to prohibit liability discovery until that occurs. Motion
for protective order DENIED without prejudice to refile once defendant’s
appellate rights have been exhausted.
 
Motion for
Financial Discovery
Doe seeks an order
allowing discovery into Weinstein’s financial condition for purposes of
punitive damages, arguing liability for the assault has been established via the
criminal conviction.
 
To the extent this
argument is based on res judicata or collateral estoppel, it falls
short. However, financial discovery does not require Doe to show liability has
been established due to collateral estoppel. Pre-trial discovery into a
defendant’s financial condition is permitted if the court finds a “substantial
probability that the plaintiff will prevail” on a claim for punitive damages.
Cal. Civ. Code §3295(c); Kerr v. Rose (1990) 216 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1565. 
 
Though the
conviction is still under appeal, so not final for claim or issue preclusion, it
is admissible evidence he committed the acts alleged here. Based on the fact of
the criminal conviction, the court finds a “substantial probability” Doe will
prevail in this action and obtain an award of punitive damages. The motion for
financial discovery is GRANTED. The court will entertain the parties’ comments
regarding a protective order at the hearing.  