  Case Number:  21STCV19095    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Tubol v. Diaz, et
al., Case No. 21STCV19095 
Hearing Date
October 11, 2023 
Defendants John
Diaz, M.D. and John Diaz, M.D. APCS’s Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
Plaintiff sues for
medical malpractice, alleging defendant negligently performed breast
augmentation surgery, causing infection, which required the removal of the
implants. Defendants move for summary judgment, arguing Diaz complied with the
standard of care.  
 
Evidence of a
physician’s compliance or breach of the applicable standard of care can only be
supplied with expert testimony. Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121
Cal.App.3d 406, 412. An expert witness’ declaration is sufficient to show the
absence of a triable issue of fact on summary judgment. Lerner v. Superior
Court (1970) 70 Cal.App.3d 656, 660. 
 
Defendant provides
the declaration of Dr. Cassileth, who reviewed medical records from Diaz and
Kaiser Permanente, as well as the complaint and discovery responses. She opines
Tubol’s procedure was performed in the normal fashion and follow-up treatment
to address post-operative complications was appropriate, relying on
conservative treatment before removing the implants. She opines Diaz’s
treatment was not the cause of Tubol’s injuries, and her delayed healing and
scarring was likely caused by her history of smoking. Diaz decl. ¶7. This is
sufficient to shift the summary judgment burden as to breach of the standard of
care and injury. 
 
In opposition,
Tubol presents the declaration of Dr. Lee, who reviewed medical records from
Dr. Diaz and Kaiser and examined Tubol. Lee decl. ¶¶5-7. Dr. Lee opines Diaz
breached the standard of care by prescribing incorrect antibiotics, failing to
check medical records and failing to obtain a wound culture. Lee decl. ¶10. Dr.
Lee opines if Diaz performed a wound culture, he would have determined Tubol had
an infection and prescribed proper antibiotics. If Diaz prescribed the correct
antibiotics, Lee opines there would have been no need to remove the implants.
Id. ¶¶12-13. Lee’s opinion is sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact
as to causation and breach, precluding summary judgement. DENIED. 