 Case Number:  22CHCV00394    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV00394

 
Motion filed: 6/28/23 
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Steffanie Stelnick (“Counsel”)
CLIENT: Plaintiff Napa Industries, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Counsel as attorney
of record for Plaintiff. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is continued. 
 
In a civil action, an attorney may
move to be relieved as counsel at any time during the proceedings after giving
notice to his client. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284.) The moving attorney shall file
with his motion: (1) a notice of the motion, directed to the client using
Judicial Council form MC-051; (2) a declaration in support of the motion using
Judicial Council form MC-052; and (3) a proposed order granting the motion; all
to be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) If the notice is served on the client by
mail, the motion must also be supported by a declaration “stating facts showing
that either: (A) The service address is the current residence or business
address of the client; or (B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved.” (Id., subd.
(d)(1).)  
 
In his declaration, the moving
attorney is required to state “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Id., subd. (c).) The client
must be provided no less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.
An attorney may withdraw from a case when it can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to the client’s interests. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) On the other hand, if the attorney withdraws at a
critical point in the action, thereby prejudicing his client, she has violated
her ethical duties. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Counsel filed and served this
motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on 6/28/23. Counsel served her
client by mail, and has filed a declaration stating that the client’s mailing
address was verified by telephone. (Decl. of Steffanie Stelnick, ¶ 3b.) Counsel
also filed a proof of service showing that the requisite documents were served
on Plaintiff and Defendant’s counsel on 6/28/23.
 
Counsel properly filed an
accompanying notice of the motion using MC-051, a declaration in support of her
motion using form MC-052, and a proposed order granting the motion. In her
MC-052 declaration, Counsel cited “irreconcilable differences” such that
Counsel “must withdraw from representation of” [Plaintiff]. (Stelnick Decl., ¶
2.) There is no future hearing date in this action. Therefore, Counsel’s
withdrawal does not raise the risk of unduly prejudicing her client. 
 
However, there appears to be a new
party in the case, “NPI Debt Fund II, LP” who is successor in interest to Plaintiff
as judgment creditor. A notice of assignment of judgment was filed on 6/21/23.
It does not appear that Counsel served NPI Debt Fund with this motion and the
accompanying papers.  The motion is
continued to allow for service on this party.
 
All other statutory requirements
for the motion have been satisfied.  
 
 
Motion continued to 12/05/2023.
 