  Case Number:  20CHCV00519    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 20CHCV00519    Motion Filed: 6/22/23                                                                                    Jury Trial:  8/19/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Farmers Insurance Exchange;  Truck Insurance Exchange; Fire Insurance Exchange; Mid-Century Insurance  Company; and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company (collectively, “Moving  Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Vincent Kody Pappadato (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order granting summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication in  favor of Moving Defendants and against Plaintiff.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted. Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted.   EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS:    ·          Moving  Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Vincent Kody  Pappadato, Nos. 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 19, 29, 30, 33, 40, 50, 52, 55, and 56  are sustained, and Nos. 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10, 34, 35, 36, 37, 42, 43, 45, 46,  53, and 54 are overruled.   ·          Moving  Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the Exhibits attached to the Declaration  of Vincent Kody Pappadato, Nos. 4, 6, 9, and 10 are sustained, and Nos. 7 and 8  are overruled.   ·          Moving  Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the Exhibits attached to the Declaration  of Leonard H. Burgess, Nos. 1 and 2 are sustained, and No. 3 is overruled.   Plaintiff is reminded to  review the 5/3/19 First Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing  for Civil. When e-filing documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL  REQUIREMENTS” which are set forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of  the Court’s 5/3/19 First Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing  for Civil (particularly bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC  3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these requirements in the future may  result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar, matters  being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with these  requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of  sanctions.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff  brings the instant action against defendants insurance companies and their  employees, alleging that all defendants made false representations to induce  Plaintiff to leave his position of employment and invest in a new insurance  agency to his detriment.   On 9/8/20,  Plaintiff filed the instant action. On 10/4/21, Plaintiff filed his operative  second amended complaint (“SAC”), which alleges against 9 named defendants the  following causes of action: (1) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; (2)  Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4) Breach of  Fiduciary Duty. On 11/23/21, the Court sustained a demurrer to Plaintiff’s  fourth cause of action without leave to amend. On 12/2/21, Moving Defendants  filed their answer.   On 6/22/23,  Moving Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment. On 8/25/23,  Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 9/1/23, Moving Defendants filed their reply.     ANALYSIS   Legal Standard   The function of a motion for summary judgment or  adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot  show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of  summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,  subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no  triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary  judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits  or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact  within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento  (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima  (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381–382.)    As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant  moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by  presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)     Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts  to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable  issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial  responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)    A.     Justifiable  Reliance   Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action allege  against all Defendants (1) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; and (2)  Negligent Misrepresentation. “The elements of a cause of action for intentional  misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its  falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the  misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5)  resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016)  246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166 [emphasis added].)    The elements of a cause of action for negligent  misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material  fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to  induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth  and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it  was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward,  Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154  [quotations omitted] [emphasis added].)   “Reliance is justifiable only when circumstances were such  to make it reasonable for plaintiff to accept defendant's statements without an  independent inquiry or investigation.” (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig  (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 363 [quotations omitted].) “The reasonableness of  the plaintiff's reliance is judged by reference to the plaintiff's knowledge  and experience.” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World  Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 864.)   Here, Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s first and  second causes of action necessarily fail because Plaintiff cannot prove that he  justifiably relied on nonmoving defendant Lou DeAngelis’ alleged  misrepresentations about the amount of commission Plaintiff would earn if he  signed on as a Farmers Insurance Agent. On 4/1/19, Plaintiff and Moving  Defendants entered into an Agent Appointment Agreement (“AAA”) for the duration  of three years. (UMF #1.) It is undisputed that the AAA contains an  integration clause which states: “this Agreement embodies the entire agreement  and understanding between the Parties hereto as to the matters addressed and  supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, written or otherwise,  relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. With the exception of address  changes and changes to commission schedules and rules, no change, alteration or  modification of this Agreement can be made unless it is in writing and signed  by (a) Agent and (b) an authorized representative of the Companies.” (UMF #6.)  “The purpose of an integration clause is to preclude the introduction of  evidence which varies or contradicts the terms of the written instruments.” (R.W.L.  Enterprises v. Oldcastle, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 1019, 1031.)   On 4/12/19, Plaintiff signed a Direct Appointment Policy  Assignment Addendum (“DAPAA”), which operated as an addendum to the AAA  effective 4/1/19. (UMF #11.) “Section D subsection 3. of the DAPAA  provides that Plaintiff ‘voluntarily enters into this Addendum without relying  on any representations made by the Companies or any of their representatives  not contained in this Addendum.’” (UMF #17.) “Section D subsection 3. (b) of  the DAPAA provides that the “Companies have made no representations regarding  the value of the service rights and duties assigned pursuant to this Addendum  and Agent has made an independent evaluation thereof.” (UMF #18.) “Finally, the  AAA contains an acknowledgment provision, executed by Plaintiff, which provides  that ‘Agent acknowledges that Agent has read, understands, and agrees to the  terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and voluntarily enters into  this Agreement without relying on any representations not contained in this  Agreement.’” (UMF #7.)   Moving Defendants argue that “the DAPAA makes clear that  the Signatory Defendants had the right to reassign the subject policies to  another agent at any time and for any reason and that Plaintiff entered into  the DAPAA ‘without relying on any representations made by the Companies or any  of their representatives not contained in this Addendum.’ As such, Plaintiff  cannot now claim that he justifiably relied upon any representations that may  have been made to him in connection with his appointment as a Farmers Agent.” (MSJ  1:16–22.)   In support of their argument, Moving Defendants proffer a  copy of the DAPAA as an exhibit to the declaration of Zoltan M. Nagy, a  Director – Home Office Agencies for Farmers Group, Inc. which provides certain  non-claims related administrative services to Moving Defendants. (Ex. N-2 to  Nagy Decl.) Moving Defendants also proffer Plaintiff’s deposition testimony  wherein Plaintiff stated that he did not recall reading subsection 3 to the  DAPAA, despite acknowledging that “he understood from his own professional  experience that some of the policies listed on Exhibit A to the DAPAA might not  have stayed with his business.” (UMF #24–25.)    Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Moving Defendants have satisfied their  initial burden to present facts to negate an essential element to Plaintiff’s  first and second causes of action. The burden thus  shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists with  regard to his reliance on the alleged representations made.   Here, Plaintiff reiterates in his opposition that “in  reliance on Defendants misrepresentations, Plaintiff invested heavily in an  insurance agency to support the promised seed books of business.” (Opp.  11:1–2.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not appear to contest the  proffered AAA or DAPAA in any way, nor does he dispute the material facts  submitted by Moving Defendants showing that Plaintiff agreed to the terms  therein, including the provision stating: “The undersigned Agent or authorized  representative of Agent voluntarily enters into this Addendum without  relying on any representations made by the Companies or any of their  representatives not contained in this Addendum.” (Ex. N-2 to Nagy Decl., ¶  D.3.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not met his responsive  burden to “produce substantial responsive evidence” challenging the validity or  enforceability of the agreements, which expressly state that Plaintiff agreed  that his employment was not in reliance on any representations by Defendants. The  Court therefore finds that Moving Defendants are not liable to Plaintiff based  on any representations made by their agents. Moving Defendants are  independently protected by the terms of the AAA and DAPAA, and if Moving  Defendants were vicariously liable for nonmoving defendant DeAngelis’ alleged  misrepresentations, both Moving Defendants and DeAngelis would then be  protected. If DeAngelis were to be found an independent contractor, of which  there is little evidence, the Court finds in its analysis of DeAngelis’ motion  for summary judgment that he is likewise not liable for the alleged  misrepresentations. Therefore, even if there exists a triable issue of  vicarious liability, the outcome remains the same.   Accordingly,  the Court finds that Moving Defendants are entitled to summary judgment as to  Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action.   B.      Breach of  Contract   Plaintiff’s third cause of action alleges against Moving  Defendants Breach of Contract. The elements of a cause of action for breach of  contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance  or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges that “DEFENDANTS failed to  compensate PLAINTIFF pursuant to the terms of the Agent Appointment Agreement,  including, but not limited to, failed to compensate PLAINTIFF for all policies  transferred out of PLAINTIFF’[s] Agency; failed to compensate PLAINTIFF for all  monies owed under the AGM and UQI programs; failed to compensate PLAINTIFF for  all Premium Growth Bonus earned, failed to compensate for lost customers and  policies. Further, the failure to properly compensate PLAINTIFF caused a  devaluation of PLAINTIFF’s business.” (SAC ¶ 142.)   Moving  Defendants contend that they “did not breach the terms of the contract entered  into with Plaintiff. The undisputed facts establish that Plaintiff was paid, in  full, for all commissions and bonuses that he earned during his appointment.”  (MSJ 18:18–20.) In support of their argument, Moving Defendants proffer the  sworn declaration of Chris Prester, a Manager, Accounting Field Operations –  Agent Compensation for moving defendant Farmers Group, Inc. (Decl. of Chris  Prester ¶ 1.) Based on his calculations and analysis of Plaintiff’s records,  the declarant “determined that the Signatory Defendants compensated Plaintiff  in full for all commissions and bonuses that he earned during his 36-month  appointment. Plaintiff’s monthly eFolio commissions statements confirm that  Farmers paid Plaintiff the monthly commissions and bonuses to which he was  entitled based upon terms of the appointment agreement and the policies  identified in the SEED packet. Plaintiff’s commissions and bonuses were based  upon productivity levels related to policies identified in the SEED  appointment, policy servicing and renewals, and new business generation.  Plaintiff was paid in accordance with the terms of the AAA, DAPAA and the  applicable commission and bonus schedules in effect at the time the commission  or bonus was earned.” (Id. at ¶ 6.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Moving Defendants have satisfied their  initial burden to present facts to negate an essential element to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action. The burden thus shifts to  Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists with regard to  Moving Defendants’ alleged breach.   In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that following an 8/23/19  meeting with DeAngelis, “Plaintiff and his office staff were ‘cut off’ from the  District Office” in breach of the AAA, which requires “the ‘A. Companies’  Duties, 2. To provide Agent any approved manuals, guidelines, forms, and  policyholder records necessary to carry out the provisions of this agreement.’  … The complete cutting off of all support only a few months into a business  relationship clearly is not providing guidelines or the necessary support for  Plaintiff and his agency to adequately thrive under the agreement.” (Opp. 14:4–12.)   The Court notes that this alleged breach is not raised in  Plaintiff’s SAC, and therefore it is not a material issue framed by the  pleadings. Accordingly, the Court declines to consider this opposition  argument. Plaintiff argues further that “the farmers Defendants further  breached the Agent Appointment Agreement by not paying Plaintiff for Policies  transferred out of his agency.” (Opp. 15:21–22.) In support of this argument,  Plaintiff offers his own declaration, stating that “I repeatedly  complained about the loss of commissions owed to me to Farmers Insurance  District Manager LOU DEANGELIS and many others at Farmers. Farmers never  provided an accounting regarding the missing policy transfer commissions or  evidence of payment. This was not provided in any detail via any source on the  Agent site. There would be mysterious additions or subtractions but I never  once was notified in advance of a transfer and I was never provided with a  written request to transfer signed by the insured despite my requests for such  information.” (Pappadato Decl. ¶ 49.)   However, as Moving Defendants observe in reply, Plaintiff “has  not identified a single earned commission or bonus for which he has not been  paid and has failed to produce evidence establishing how Defendants’ conduct  caused him harm.” (Reply 5:14–17.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has failed to meet his responsive burden to show a triable issue of  fact exists as to whether Moving Defendants breached the AAA or DAPAA.  Accordingly, the Court finds that Moving Defendants are entitled to summary  judgment as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.   CONCLUSION    The motion is granted.MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 20CHCV00519    Motion Filed: 7/12/23                                                                                    Jury Trial:  8/19/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Lou De Angelis (“Moving  Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Vincent Kody Pappadato (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order granting summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication in  favor of Moving Defendant and against Plaintiff.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted. Moving Defendant’s request for  judicial notice is granted.   EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS: Moving  Defendant’s evidentiary objections Nos. 4 and 11 are sustained, and Nos. 1, 2,  and 3 are overruled.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff  brings the instant action against defendants insurance companies and their  employees, including Moving Defendant, alleging that all defendants made false  representations to induce Plaintiff to leave his position of employment and  invest in a new insurance agency to his detriment.   On 9/8/20,  Plaintiff filed the instant action. On 10/4/21, Plaintiff filed his operative  second amended complaint (“SAC”), which alleges against 9 named defendants the  following causes of action: (1) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; (2)  Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4) Breach of  Fiduciary Duty. On 11/23/21, the Court sustained a demurrer to Plaintiff’s  fourth cause of action without leave to amend. On 1/25/22, Moving Defendant  filed his answer.   On 7/12/23,  Moving Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment. On 9/13/23,  Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 9/21/23, Moving Defendant filed his reply.  // // ANALYSIS   Legal Standard   The function of a motion for summary judgment or  adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot  show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of  summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,  subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no  triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary  judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits  or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact  within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento  (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima  (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381–382.)    As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant  moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by  presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)     Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts  to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable  issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial  responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)    A.     Intentional  and Negligent Misrepresentation   Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action allege  against all Defendants (1) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; and (2)  Negligent Misrepresentation. “The elements of a cause of action for intentional  misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its  falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the  misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5)  resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016)  246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166 [emphasis added].)    The elements of a cause of action for negligent  misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing  material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and  with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance  of the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party  to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.  Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th  1145, 1154 [quotations omitted] [emphasis added].) “Reliance is justifiable only when circumstances were such  to make it reasonable for plaintiff to accept defendant's statements without an  independent inquiry or investigation.” (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig  (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 363 [quotations omitted].) “The reasonableness of  the plaintiff's reliance is judged by reference to the plaintiff's knowledge  and experience.” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World  Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 864.)   Here, Moving Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s first and  second causes of action necessarily fail because Plaintiff cannot prove that he  justifiably relied on Moving Defendant’s alleged misrepresentations about the  amount of commission Plaintiff would earn if he signed on as a Farmers  Insurance Agent.   1.       Contractual Disclaimer   On 4/1/19, Plaintiff and nonmoving Farmers defendants  entered into an Agent Appointment Agreement (“AAA”) for the duration of three  years. (UMF #1.) It is undisputed that the AAA contains an integration  clause which states: “this Agreement embodies the entire agreement and  understanding between the Parties hereto as to the matters addressed and  supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, written or otherwise,  relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. With the exception of address  changes and changes to commission schedules and rules, no change, alteration or  modification of this Agreement can be made unless it is in writing and signed  by (a) Agent and (b) an authorized representative of the Companies.” (UMF #4.)  “The purpose of an integration clause is to preclude the introduction of  evidence which varies or contradicts the terms of the written instruments.” (R.W.L.  Enterprises v. Oldcastle, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 1019, 1031.)   On 4/12/19, Plaintiff signed a Direct Appointment Policy  Assignment Addendum (“DAPAA”), which operated as an addendum to the AAA  effective 4/1/19. (UMF #6.) “Section D subsection 3. of the DAPAA  provides that Plaintiff ‘voluntarily enters into this Addendum without relying  on any representations made by the Companies or any of their representatives  not contained in this Addendum.’” (UMF #13.) “Section D subsection 3. (b) of  the DAPAA provides that the “Companies have made no representations regarding  the value of the service rights and duties assigned pursuant to this Addendum  and Agent has made an independent evaluation thereof.” (UMF #14.) Finally, the  AAA contains an acknowledgment provision, executed by Plaintiff, which provides  that “Agent acknowledges that Agent has read, understands, and agrees to the  terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and voluntarily enters into  this Agreement without relying on any representations not contained in this  Agreement.” (UMF #5.)   Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has assented to the  terms of the AAA and DAPAA, and is presumed to know its contents and cannot  escape being bound by its terms merely by contending that he did not read  them.” (MSJ 17:1–3.) “Plaintiff agreed with the unambiguous language of the AAA  and DAPAA when he signed the agreement. Therefore, the parol evidence rule  precludes recovery by Plaintiff on claims of purportedly intentional or  negligent misrepresentations, whose claims are wholly predicated on allegations  of a purported oral misrepresentations or agreements made by Defendant  concerning the policies that were to be transferred to Plaintiff upon his  appointment.” (MSJ 18:1–6.)   In support of his argument, Moving Defendant proffers a  copy of the DAPAA as an exhibit to the declaration of Zoltan M. Nagy, a  Director – Home Office Agencies for Farmers Group, Inc. which provides certain  non-claims related administrative services to the nonmoving signatory defendants.  (Ex. B to Nagy Decl.) Moving Defendant also proffers Plaintiff’s deposition  testimony wherein Plaintiff stated that he did not recall reading subsection 3  to the DAPAA, despite acknowledging that “he understood from his own  professional experience that some of the policies listed on Exhibit A to the  DAPAA might not have stayed with his business.” (UMF #24–26.)    Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Moving Defendant has satisfied his  initial burden to present facts to negate an essential element to Plaintiff’s  first and second causes of action. The burden thus  shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists with  regard to his reliance on the alleged representations made.   2.       Reasonable  Reliance on Misrepresentations   Moving  Defendant further argues that Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action  fail because the alleged misrepresentations concerned future seed books of  business promised to Plaintiff, which are not actionable as a matter of law. “’It  is hornbook law that an actionable misrepresentation must be made about past or  existing facts; statements regarding future events are merely deemed opinions.’”  (Reply 3:21–23, quoting San Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman  Companies (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 29, 43–44.)   Here,  Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s claim that De Angelis promised that a  third party, Farmers®, would give him future books of ‘seed’ business of a  particular size and composition cannot support Plaintiff’s claims for negligent  and intentional misrepresentation. Rather, this alleged misstatement – which  does not comport with the parties’ written communications – is a nonactionable  ‘prediction[ ] as to future events ... by some third party.’” (Id. at  4:1–5, quoting Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2  Cal.App.4th 153, 158.)   The  Court agrees and finds that the alleged misrepresentations about the books of  business and commissions that Plaintiff was to receive do not concern past or  existing material facts, as required for causes of action for intentional or  negligent misrepresentation.   Moreover,  based on Plaintiff’s “extensive experience in the insurance industry,” the  Court finds that his reliance on any alleged misrepresentations by any  defendant are not reasonable, particularly where he signed two contracts which  disclaim any such reliance. (SAC ¶ 105, Pl.’s Opp. 3:7.) If Plaintiff  reasonably expected to receive a guaranteed certain amount of business, based  on defendants’ representations, Plaintiff had the opportunity to negotiate for those  terms to be incorporated into the agreements. Plaintiff has failed to present  evidence to show that his reliance on Moving Defendant’s representations was  reasonable, nor any evidence that the AAA and DAPAA are contracts of adhesion.  Additionally, Plaintiff has not shown detrimental reliance where he appears to  have admitted to discovering the “truth” of the alleged misrepresentation in September  2019, but continued to work as a Farmers insurance agent for the remainder of  the 36-month contract term. (Rochlis v. Walt Disney Co. (1993) 19  Cal.App.4th 201, 215, as modified (Oct. 6, 1993); UMF #34.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to show that he  reasonably relied on Moving Defendant’s alleged misrepresentations.   3.       Damages   Moving  Defendant further argues that Plaintiff cannot show that he has suffered any  damages stemming from Moving Defendant’s conduct. It is undisputed that “Plaintiff  continued to operate his agency until the expiration of the 36-month term of  his AAA and sold all asserts of the Vincent Pappadato Agency to a third party  for $80,000 at the end of this 36-month appointment.” (MSJ 20:1–3; UMF #36–37.)   In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that following an 8/23/19  meeting with Moving Defendant, “Plaintiff and his office staff were ‘cut off’  from the District Office” in breach of the AAA, which requires “the ‘A.  Companies’ Duties, 2. To provide Agent any approved manuals, guidelines, forms,  and policyholder records necessary to carry out the provisions of this  agreement.’ … The complete cutting off of all support only a few months into a  business relationship clearly is not providing guidelines or the necessary  support for Plaintiff and his agency to adequately thrive under the agreement.”  (Pl.’s Opp. 16:11–19.)   The  Court again notes that Moving Defendant is not a party to the relevant  agreements, and Plaintiff has not alleged any breach of contract against Moving  Defendant. Even so, this alleged conduct is not  raised in Plaintiff’s SAC, and therefore it is not a material issue framed by  the pleadings. Accordingly, the Court declines to consider this opposition  argument. Moreover, as Moving Defendant asserts, and as the Court finds above,  “Plaintiff could not and did not reasonably rely on any representations made by  Defendant and consequently, did not suffer any harm as a result.” (MSJ 19:18–21.)   Accordingly,  the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to show that he suffered injury as a  result of Moving Defendant’s alleged misrepresentations.   Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Moving  Defendant’s motion as to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action.  The Court notes Moving Defendant’s arguments  regarding punitive damages but need not reach them based on the foregoing  findings.   CONCLUSION    The motion is  granted.