 Case Number:  22STUD06820    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  25  10626
Budlong Management v. Argueta        22STUD06820ANALYSIS: 
 
I.  Background
               On
November 14, 2022, Plaintiff 10626 Budlong Management LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant Gabriela Hernandez Argueta (“Defendant”), for an
unlawful detainer when Defendant was still in possession of the unit.
            On
January 24, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with written discovery requests,
including a Request for Admission. 
Defendant failed to respond.  
            On
February 21, 2023, Defendant returned possession of the premises to Plaintiff.
            On
March 23, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for
Admissions Admitted and all of the Request for Admissions against Defendant
were deemed admitted. 
            On
April 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment for
monetary damages. 
II.  Legal
Standard 
 
Burdens on Summary
Judgment 
 
Summary judgment is proper
“if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary
judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Id. at
§437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the
claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential
element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Id.)   
 
The moving party bears the
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this
burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or
(2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out
that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….”
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)
 
[A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot
establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”
(Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating
an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the
option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of
action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar,
supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary
showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses,
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the
plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she
has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of
action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In
other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to
support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the
plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) 
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift
the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely
upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that
the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued
upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and
true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the
plaintiff's cause of action.”
(Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.) 
 
Until the moving defendant
has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to
come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its
burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat
the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's
supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally
construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be
resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
Discussion 
 
a.     Unlawful
Detainer (First Cause of Action) 
 
A tenant is
guilty of unlawful detainer when: 
 
“The tenant continues in possession,
in person or by subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or the
successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the
payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is
held, and three days' notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other
judicial holidays, in writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that
is due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent
payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days
and hours that person will be available to receive the payment (provided that,
if the address does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be
conclusively presumed that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner
by the tenant to the name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed
received by the owner on the date posted, . . . .”
(CCP § 1161(2).) 
 
“Unlawful detainer is a summary
procedure designed principally to enable the landlord to gain speedy possession of the property. That is why
the scope of such proceedings is strictly limited. Damages and rent are
incidental thereto and are recoverable only because the statute so provides.” (Northrop Corp. v. Chaparral Energy, Inc. (1985) 168
Cal.App.3d 725, 729.) (internal citations omitted.)
 
Civil Code § 1952.3 contains
procedures for converting an unlawful
detainer to “an ordinary civil action”
after the possession issue becomes moot by surrender
but preserves the landlord's option to pursue a separate action. (Id., 729–730.)
 
Under Civil Code § 1952.3 if the lessor brings an unlawful
detainer proceeding and possession of the property is no longer in issue
because possession of the property has been delivered to the lessor before
trial or, if there is no trial, before judgment is entered, the case becomes an
ordinary civil action in which:
 
“The
lessor may obtain any relief to which he is entitled, including, where
applicable, relief authorized by Section 1951.2; but, if the lessor seeks to
recover damages described in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 1951.2
or any other damages not recoverable in the unlawful detainer proceeding, the
lessor shall first amend the complaint pursuant to Section 472 or 473 of the
Code of Civil Procedure so that possession of the property is no longer in
issue and to state a claim for such damages and shall serve a copy of the
amended complaint on the defendant in the same manner as a copy of a summons
and original complaint is served.”
(Civil
Code § 1952.3(a)(1).)
 
            Here, Plaintiff has not yet amended
the Complaint so that possession of property is no longer in issue.  Plaintiff is ordered to amend the Complaint
and to serve a copy of the amended complaint on the Defendant, prior to this
Court’s ruling on summary judgment.  
 
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court CONTINUES Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment
to November 8, 2023 at 10:30am in Department 25 at the Spring Street Courthouse.
  
 
Moving party is
to give notice of this ruling.¿¿ 