 Case Number:  20STLC03019    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  25  Manhattan Floor Covering, Inc v. Maureen McCool  20STLC03019ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On April 3, 2020, Plaintiff
Manhattan Floor Covering, Inc. dba SERVPRO of Redondo Beach 
(“Plaintiff” or “MFC”) filed a complaint against Defendant
Maureen McCool (“Defendant”), alleging causes of action for breach of contract,
open book account, and account stated. On May 21, 2020, 
McCool filed an Answer to the Complaint.
 
On July 1, 2021, the Court granted
McCool’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint. The Cross-Complaint was
filed on April 22, 2021, against Cross-Defendants MFC and Interinsurance Exchange
of the Automobile Club (“Interinsurance Exchange”) for breach of written
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
conversion, negligence, and negligent hiring, retention, and supervision. On
July 26, 2021, based on McCool’s request, the Court dismissed Cross-Defendant
Interinsurance Exchange without prejudice. (7-26-21 Request for Dismissal.) On
August 25, 2021, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant MFC filed an Answer to the
Cross-Complaint.
 
On August 9, 2022, the Court
granted defense counsel Stephen Loomis Bucklin’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel as to Defendant/Cross-Complainant McCool, filed on January 18, 2022.
(8- 9-22 Minute Order; 8-9-22 Order.)
 
On March 23, 2023, Defendant filed
an Amended Cross-Complaint against MFC, Interinsurance Exchange, and The
Bucklin Law Firm (“Bucklin Law”) and asserting eight causes of action. On March
30, 2023, the case was reclassified as a civil unlimited matter. (3-30-23
Notice of Reclassification and Reassignment.) Bucklin Law filed an Answer on
May 5, 2023, and Interinsurance Exchange filed an Answer on May 19, 2023. 
 
On June 2, 2023, MFC’s Motion to
Strike Defendant McCool’s First Amended Cross-Complaint and Vacate Notices of
Reclassification and Reassignment was granted. (6-2-23 Minute Order.) The Court
struck McCool’s First Amended Cross-Complaint and ordered the case reclassified
as a limited jurisdiction case. (Ibid.) The case was reclassified as a limited
jurisdiction case and reassigned to Judge Katherine Chilton in Department 25 at
the Spring Street Courthouse. (6-6-23 Minute Order.)
 
On August 1, 2023, MFC filed the
instant Motion for Sanctions. On September 20, 2023, Defendant filed an
Opposition to the Motion for Sanctions. 
 
II.             
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 128.5 permits a trial court to
“order a party, a party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or
tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5(a).)  Actions or tactics include, but
are not limited to, filing, or opposing motions, complaints, answers, or other
responsive pleadings.  (Code Civ. Proc. §¿128.5(b)(1).)  “
‘Frivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(b)(2).) 
Bad faith is determined using a subjective standard.  (In re Marriage
of Sahafzadeh-Taeb & Taeb (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 139, 134-35.) 
 
Expenses pursuant to § 128.5 cannot be imposed unless
noticed in a party’s moving or responding papers, or on the court’s own motion
after providing the offending party notice and an opportunity to be
heard.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5(c).)  An order imposing expenses
must be in writing and must recite in detail the action, tactic, or
circumstances justifying the order. (Id.) 
 
III.           
Discussion 
 
MFC moves for sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $2,500.00. 
 
As a preliminary matter, MFC did
not file a declaration with the motion supporting the amount of sanctions
sought against Defendant. MFC is required to include a declaration supporting
the amount of any monetary sanction sought pursuant to CRC Rule 8.276 and CCP
section 2023.040. MFC did not provide any facts supporting the $2,500.00
request for sanctions. As such, MFC failed to comply with the requirements of
CRC Rule 8.276 and CCP section 2023.040. 
 
21-Day Safe Harbor Rule 
 
Sanctions under CCP section 128.5 may also be awarded if
the offending party is provided a 21-day safe harbor to withdraw or correct its
offending document or pleading.  Specifically, “[i]f the alleged action or
tactic is the making or opposing of a written motion or the filing and service
of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading that can
be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, the court on its own motion may enter
an order describing the specific action or tactic, made in bad faith, that is
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, and direct an
attorney, law firm, or party to show cause why it has made an action or tactic
as defined in subdivision (b), unless, within 21 days of service of the order
to show cause, the challenged action or tactic is withdrawn or appropriately
corrected.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(f)(1)(D)(1).)  An award of
sanctions may include an award of attorney’s fees incurred as a direct result
of the offending party’s bath faith action or tactic. (Code Civ. Proc. §
128.5(f)(1)(D)(2).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7 also “contains a safe harbor provision. It requires the party seeking
sanctions to serve on the opposing party, without filing or presenting it to
the court, a notice of motion specifically describing the sanctionable conduct.
Service of the motion initiates a 21-day ‘hold’ or ‘safe harbor’ period.
[Citations.] During this time, the offending document may be corrected or
withdrawn without penalty. If that occurs, the motion for sanctions ‘‘shall
not’’ be filed. [Citations.] By mandating a 21-day safe harbor period to allow
correction or withdrawal of an offending document, section 128.7 is designed to be remedial, not
punitive. [Citation.]” (Li v. Majestic Industry Hills, LLC (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 585, 590-591.).
 
Here, MFC served
Defendant notice of this motion and the motion for sanctions on June 10, 2023,
via electronic mail. Defendant had 21 calendar days plus two court days to
correct or withdraw any offending documents, but Defendant did not do so. On
August 1, 2023, Defendant filed this motion with the court in compliance with
the 21-day safe harbor period. The Court will decide the motion on its merits.
 
Merits
 
MFC argues that Defendant has
engaged in abusive and intolerable conduct by sending offensive emails to counsel
for Plaintiff, Linda Seals and John Scott Carter and sending similar emails to
counsel for Cross-Defendant Kevin McNamara in violation of California Attorney
Guidelines of Civility and Professionalism. MFC alleges that Defendant has
threatened to file complaints with the California State Bar and contact the
media and directed her conduct towards the wife of counsel for Cross-Defendant
Kevin McNamara and stalking McNamara’s family on social media. MFC attaches a
history of emails from Defendant directed towards Plaintiff’s Counsel and
Cross-Defendant’s counsel. (Motion, Ex. A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I.) MFC also
contends that Defendant has violated CCP section 527.6(b)(1) by attempting to
re-open discovery and harass counsel for Plaintiff and counsel for Cross-Defendant.
MFC seeks an order restraining Defendant from communicating with the attorneys
for Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant in an unprofessional or abusive manner and
awarding sanctions.
 
In Opposition, Defendant argues
that the moving papers were not properly served. Defendant also argues that CCP
sections 128.5 and 128.7 do not apply since there are no motions or pleadings
filed by Defendant that are involved. Defendant has not filed a motion to
reopen discovery. Defendant asserts that MFC has no standing to bring this
motion. Defendant also contends that the Court must follow Rule 8.3 of Rules of
Professional Conduct and submit this action to the State Bar. 
 
Here, MFC seeks sanctions pursuant
to Defendant’s conduct over correspondence with Plaintiff’s counsel and
Cross-Defendant’s counsel. However, the Court finds that MFC is not seeking
sanctions because of actions involving motions or pleadings filed by Defendant.
As of this date, MFC has not filed any motions or responsive pleadings that
relate to this action. It is undisputed that Defendant did not file a motion to
re-open discovery so MFC’s claims that Defendant attempted to re-open discovery
is unfounded. While MFC presents substantial evidence of questionable behavior from
Defendant towards Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s counsel, the alleged bad faith
actions are not related to the filing of any pleadings or opposing any motions.
Thus, the
rest of the alleged bad faith tactics do not give rise to sanctions.  
 
 MFC also fails to properly assert entitlement
to a restraining order under CCP section 527.6. MFC filed a motion for
sanctions instead of also a motion for a civil harassment restraining order
against Defendant. The Court finds that MFC’s allegations that Defendant
violated CCP section 527.6 are conclusory. Thus, the Court is not inclined to
grant MFC’s request for a civil harassment restraining order against Defendant.

 
            Accordingly, the
Court finds that Defendant has failed to show that Defendant engaged in
frivolous tactics and thus, denies MFC’s request for sanctions against
Defendant.
 
IV.           
Conclusion & Order
 
For the
foregoing reasons, MFC’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED in its entirety.  
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 