 Case Number:  23STCV27800    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BLUE FIRE LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
VINCENT MEHDIZADEH, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV27800
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 14, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendants Vincent Mehdizadeh; Jaime Ortega; Marco Rullo;
Matthew Feinstein; Pineapple Ventures, Inc. (“Ventures”); PNPL Holdings, Inc.
(“Holdings”); PNPLXPRESS X, Inc. (“Express”); and Pineapple Consolidated, Inc.
(“Consolidated”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) move for an order
compelling Plaintiff Blue Fire LLC (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate its claims
against Defendants and staying this action pending arbitration.
 
The Court DENIES the motion as to Plaintiff’s third, fourth,
and fifth causes of action.
 
The Court DELAYS its ruling on the motion as to Plaintiff’s
remaining claims against the Moving Defendants pending the resolution of
Plaintiff’s third, fourth, and fifth claims.
 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants run an investment fraud
scheme whereby they persuade investors to invest money in their companies and
then cut off distributions and payments once it is clear that an investor has
given all they are willing or able to invest.
 
On March 7, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a Stock Purchase
Agreement and Shareholder Agreement (the “PVI Agreement”) with Holdings for the
purchase of 1,000 shares of Ventures stock, representing 1% of the outstanding
shares of Ventures, in exchange for $400,000.00.
 
Also on March 7, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a Stock
Purchase Agreement and Shareholder Agreement (the “Dispensary Agreement”) with
Holdings for the purchase of 30,000 shares of Express stock, representing 30%
of the outstanding shares of Express, in exchange for $1,800,000.00.
 
The PVI Agreement and the Dispensary Agreement
(collectively, the “Agreements”) contained identical arbitration clauses (the
“Arbitration Clauses”).
 
Plaintiff filed this action on November 13, 2023 against
Moving Defendants, as well as Raking Leaves, Inc. (“Raking Leaves”), raising
claims for (1) fraud; (2) breach of contract; (3) unjust enrichment; (4)
imposition of a constructive trust; (5) unfair business practices; (6) breach
of fiduciary duty; and (7) theft under Penal Code, section 496, subd. (c).
 
Moving Defendants filed this motion on March 11, 2024.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition. Moving Defendants did not file a reply.
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the arbitration
agreement. Plaintiff argues that (1) the Arbitration Clauses exclude its
equitable claims, and (2) the Court should therefore delay its order to
arbitrate until the equitable claims are resolved.
 
Plaintiff’s equitable claims are not subject to arbitration
 
The Arbitration Clauses state, in relevant part:
 
“8.12
Arbitration. Except as to any claim for injunctive or equitable relief, any
controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the
construction thereof, or breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration in
accordance with the Rules of the American Arbitration Association except as
otherwise provided in this Section’ provided however that any party may seek
preliminary injunctive relief or other equitable relief pending arbitration to
prevent irreparable harm.”
 
(Defendants’
Ex. 1 at § 8.12; Defendants’ Ex. 2 at § 8.12 [emphasis added].)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges claims for unjust enrichment
and the imposition of a constructive trust. Plaintiff also seeks restitution
and injunctive relief under Business & Professions Code, sections 17200, et
seq.
 
“A UCL action is equitable in nature.” (Korea Supply Co.
v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1144.) 
 
“The phrase ‘unjust enrichment’ is used in law to
characterize the … failure to make restitution of or for property or benefits received
under such circumstances as to give rise to a legal or equitable obligation to
account therefor. It is a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines
and remedies, that one person should not be permitted unjustly to enrich
himself at the expense of another, but should be required to make restitution
of or for property or benefits … where it is just and equitable that such
restitution be made, and where such action involves no violation or frustration
of law or opposition to public policy[.]” (Dinosaur Development, Inc. v.
White (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1310, 1315.)
 
“A constructive trust is an equitable remedy imposed where
the defendant holds title or some interest in certain property which it is
inequitable for him to enjoy as against the plaintiff.” (Kraus v. Willow
Park Public Golf Course (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 354, 373.) “One who gains a
thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence, the violation of a trust,
or other wrongful act, is, unless he has some other and better right thereto,
an involuntary trustee of the thing gained, for the benefit of the person who
would otherwise have had it.” (Civ. Code, § 2224.)
 
“Restitution is a legal remedy when ordered in a case at law
and an equitable remedy when ordered in an equity case, and whether it is legal
or equitable depends on the basis for the plaintiff's claim and the nature of
the underlying remedies sought. For restitution to lie in equity, the action
generally must seek not to impose personal liability on the defendant, but to
restore to the plaintiff particular funds or property in the defendant's
possession.” (Great-West Life & Annuity Ins. Co. v. Knudson (2002)
534 U.S. 204, 205.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s claims for unjust enrichment and
constructive trust, as well as his claim for restitution under the UCL, are
equitable claims. Furthermore, his claim for injunctive relief under the UCL is
facially exempted by the Arbitration Clauses. These claims are therefore not
subject to arbitration.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion as to Plaintiff’s
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action.
 
The Court delays its order to arbitrate Plaintiff’s remaining claims
 
“If the court determines that there are other issues between
the petitioner and the respondent which are not subject to arbitration and
which are the subject of a pending action or special proceeding between the
petitioner and the respondent and that a determination of such issues may make
the arbitration unnecessary, the court may delay its order to arbitrate until
the determination of such other issues or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (d).)
 
Moreover, arbitration need not be ordered where a “party to
the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (c).)
 
Here, there is a significant chance that resolution of
Plaintiff’s claims seeking restitution and injunctive relief will render
arbitration of the remaining claims unnecessary. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s
action here against Raking Leave will continue regardless of whether the Court
compels arbitration against Moving Defendants, creating a risk of conflicting
rulings.
 
The Court therefore delays its ruling on the motion as to
Plaintiff’s remaining claims pending the resolution of Plaintiff’s third,
fourth, and fifth claims.