  Case Number:  22STCV19714    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30
Calendar
No. 
29133
Grayfox LLC vs. Compass California, Inc., et. al., Case
No. 22STCV19714
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Cross-defendant’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-complaint
 
            Cross-Defendant Gail Copley (Copley)
demurs to the First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) of Cross-Complainants
Compass California, Inc., Tony Mark, Russel Grether, and Lily Harfouche. The
Court sustains the demurrer as to the second, third, and fourth causes of
action, and otherwise overrules the demurrer.
 
In reviewing
the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a demurrer, a court will treat the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (Blank);
C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins. Co.
(1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.) It is well settled that a “demurrer lies
only for defects appearing on the face of the complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency of a complaint is
tested against a general demurrer are well settled. We not only treat the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the
complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in
their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes omitted).) For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint must be construed liberally by
drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.)
When ruling
on a demurrer, the Court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or
matters which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a
plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A
demurrer is properly sustained only when the complaint, liberally construed,
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 574, 578.)
 
Plaintiff 29133 Grayfox LLC’s Complaint
alleges that Cross-Complainants and
other defendants intentionally suppressed and withheld geology and engineering
reports during escrow for Plaintiff’s purchase of a home in Malibu, California.
(SAC ¶¶ 18-20.) The seller of the home was Defendant Goosefish Invest LLC
(Goosefish), acting through its owner Defendant Mikael Soderlindh (Soderlindh).
(SAC ¶¶ 3-4.) Tony Mark and Russel
Grether are allegedly licensed real estate brokers and/or sales agents employed
by Compass California, Inc.; Compass and the agents served as brokers for
Goosefish. (SAC ¶ 6.) Lily Harfouche, another
agent employed by Compass, acted as Plaintiff’s broker in the transaction. (SAC
¶ 7.)
 
In the FACC, Cross-Complainants allege
that Copley “agreed to act as an agent for Soderlindh and/or Goosefish in connection
with the sale of the Property to Plaintiff. Copley’s role and responsibilities
included obtaining and providing reports and disclosures to assist to inform
Plaintiff as to the status/update regarding her efforts to obtain permits for
the installation of a pool and wood deck at the Property.” (FACC ¶ 22.) Copley
allegedly possessed the relevant reports prior to the close of escrow, but “either
negligently or intentionally, failed to bring the reports to the attention of
the parties to the real estate transaction. . . . Copley was aware that the
parties were relying on her to provide all necessary reports.” (FACC ¶ 27.) The
FACC alleges five causes of action against Copley, for:  (1)
Equitable Indemnity; (2) Contribution; (3) Declaratory Relief; (4) Negligence;
and (5) Negligent Misrepresentation.
 
First
Cause of Action for Equitable Indemnity
Cross-Complainants’ first
cause of action seeks equitable indemnification from Copley for any liability
to Plaintiff arising from Copley’s fault related to Plaintiff’s purchase of the
Property. (FACC ¶ 33.)
“Equitable indemnity, which
‘requires no contractual relationship,’ ‘is premised on a joint legal
obligation to another for damages’; it is ‘subject to allocation of fault
principles and comparative equitable apportionment of loss.’ [Citation.] ‘The elements of a
cause of action
for [equitable] indemnity are (1) a showing of fault
on the part of the indemnitor and (2)
resulting damages
to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is
... equitably responsible.’ ” (C.W. Howe Partners Inc. v. Mooradian
(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 688, 700.)
 
Cross-Complainants allege that Copley was
responsible for obtaining and providing the relevant geology and engineering
reports during escrow, that Copley failed to inform the parties of those
reports, and that this failure contributed to Plaintiff’s damages. (FACC ¶ 27.)
These allegations are sufficient to plead a claim for equitable indemnity.
 
Copley demurs on the basis that she
owed no duty to Plaintiff because she was not an agent in the transaction.
While Cross-Complainants allege that Copley acted as an agent of sellers Goosefish
and/or Soderlindh (FACC ¶ 22), Copley argues that the exhibits attached to
Plaintiff’s incorporated Second Amended Complaint show that she was not an
agent for the seller. However, this argument is wholly unsupported, as Copley fails
to cite which part of the SAC or attached exhibits refutes her alleged agency. 
 
Copley also argues that all claims in
the FACC time-barred under Civ. Code § 2079.4, which provides, “[i]n no
event shall the time for commencement of legal action for breach of duty
imposed by this article exceed two years from the date of possession, which
means the date of recordation, the date of close of escrow, or the date of
occupancy, whichever occurs first.” The duty subject to this section is “the
duty of a real estate broker or salesperson . . . to a prospective buyer of
residential real property” to conduct a reasonably competent and diligent
visual inspection of the property offered for sale, and to disclose to the
buyer all material facts that such an investigation would reveal. (Civ. Code §
2079, subd. (a).) 
 
Copley’s statute of limitations
argument fails because Cross-Complainants do not allege that Copley
acted as the real estate broker or salesperson for the sellers. Rather, Copley
allegedly acted as an agent for Sonderlindh/Goosefish to oversee the permit
application process for installation of a pool and wood deck at the Property.
(FACC ¶ 13.) In the incorporated
SAC, Plaintiff alleges that the Mark, Grether, and Jessica Jedvaj, as agents of
Compass, acted as the sellers’ broker. (SAC ¶ 6.) 
 


 
Second
Cause of Action for Contribution
Under their second cause of action,
Cross-Complainants seek contribution from Copley for any damages recovered by
Plaintiff from Cross-Complainants in the underlying action that were
proximately caused by Copley’s negligence or fault. (FACC ¶¶ 38-40.)
 
The Court agrees with Copley that the
contribution claim is premature. “Contribution . . . is
a creature of statute and distributes the loss equally among all tortfeasors. .
. . [Contribution] requires a showing that one of several joint tortfeasor
judgment debtors has paid more than a pro rata share of a judgment. . . . A
right of contribution can come into existence only after rendition of a
judgment declaring more than one defendant jointly liable to the plaintiff.” (Coca-Cola Bottling
Co. v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1378.) 
 
Contrary to
Cross-Complainants’ argument, contribution and indemnity are not merely forms
of one another; the
California Supreme Court has recognized “that the statutory contribution remedy
[is] separate and distinct from the judicially created doctrine of comparative
indemnification.” (Id. at 1379 [citing American Motorcycle Assn. v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 578, 602].) By statute, contribution
requires that a judgment has been jointly rendered against multiple
tortfeasors. (Civ. Code § 875, subd. (a).) Here, because there has been no judgment rendered against
Cross-Complainants, they have not pled any right to contribution. (See Coca-Cola
Bottling Co., 11 Cal.App.4th at 1380 [“After the judgment in favor
of plaintiff Shore and against both defendants had been entered and fully
satisfied by Coca-Cola, then and only then was a claim for contribution ripe.”].)
Third
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
            The third cause of action requests
declaratory relief as to “the respective rights, duties, and obligations of
Copley . . . to indemnify or provide comparative contribution to
Cross-Complainants in regard to a verdict or judgment, if any, rendered against
Cross-Complainants [for Plaintiff].” (FACC ¶ 42.)
 
“Any person interested under a written
instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in . . .
property . . . may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights
and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action or
cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights
and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1060.) 
 
The FACC fails to identify
any proper subject for declaratory relief; Cross-Complainants have not alleged
the existence of any written instrument or contract at issue. Consequently,
this cause of action fails.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence
            Under their claim for negligence, Cross-Complainants
allege that Copley “assumed the obligation of Soderlindh to provide all
material information relative to the installation of a pool and wood deck at
the Property to Cross-Complainants,” and that Copley breached this duty by
failing to provide Tony Mark the Byer Report and Universal Engineering Report
as part of the package of material information relating to the pool and deck.
(FACC ¶ 49.)
            The Court agrees with Copley that
she did not owe the alleged duty of care to Cross-Complainants. The premise of
Copley’s alleged duty is that Soderlindh owed a duty to Cross-Complainants to
provide material information relating to the pool and deck. But
Cross-Complainants were allegedly acting as Soderlindh’s brokers in the
transaction, and the duty to disclose material information is placed on the
broker. (Civ. Code § 2079.) Soderlindh did not have any obligation to provide
material information regarding the deck to Cross-Complainants; to the contrary,
Cross-Complainants owed Soderlindh this duty. A Seller’s agent owes an
“affirmative obligation” to the buyer and seller “to disclose all facts
known to the agent materially affecting the value or desirability of the
property that are not known to, or within the diligent attention and
observation of, the parties.” (Civ. Code § 2079.16.)
Because Soderlindh did not owe the alleged duty to Cross-Complainants, Copley
could not have assumed that duty, and so the negligence claim fails.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Negligent Misrepresentation
To plead
fraud by negligent
misrepresentation, a plaintiff must allege: (1) a misrepresentation of a past
or existing material fact; (2) made without reasonable grounds for believing it
to be true; (3) made with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact
misrepresented; (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation; and (5)
resulting damage. (Ragland v. U.S.
National Bank Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196.)
The liberal construction of pleadings
does not apply to a fraud claim. Instead, a fraud claim must be pled with
specificity. (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California¿(2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 821, 837.) “The particularity requirement demands that a
plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
 
Cross-Complainants allege under their
claim for negligent misrepresentation that, on January 25, 2021, “Copley
represented to Mark that the package of information she delivered to Mark
contained all material information related to the installation of a pool and
wood deck at the Property.” (FACC ¶ 54.) This representation was untrue,
because the package that Copley presented omitted the Byer Report and Universal
Engineering Report. (FACC ¶ 55.)
In a claim for negligent
misrepresentation, “one who negligently supplies false information ‘for the
guidance of others in their business transactions’ is liable for loss suffered ‘(a)
[b]y the person or one of a limited group of persons for whose benefit and
guidance he intends to supply the information or knows that the recipient
intends to supply it; and (b) through reliance upon it in a transaction that he
intends the information to influence or knows that the recipient so intends or
in a substantially similar transaction.’ ” (Leko v. Cornerstone Building
Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1121.)
The allegations are sufficient to state
a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation against Copley. Copley
allegedly agreed to prepare the requisite information regarding the pool and
deck for Cross-Complainants to present to the buyer, and Cross-Complainants
allegedly suffered damages in reliance on Copley’s incomplete information.
(FACC ¶¶ 19-22.) The circumstances surrounding Copley’s alleged role are pled
with sufficient specificity to support the claim.