  Case Number:  23STCV30016    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




a. goertz

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
pubg santa monica, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV30016




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   16, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  DEFENDANT’S
  DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
(2)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to complaint
(3)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike portions of complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Kevin Kimball      
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff A. Goertz
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants PUBG Santa Monica, Inc., PUBG Entertainment, Inc., Striking
Distance Studios, Inc., Krafton Ventures Fund, L.P., Krafton Ventures, Inc.,
Krafton Ventures, LLC, and Krafton Americas, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff A. Goertz
(2)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(3)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer filed by defendant Kevin Kimball. 
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with the demurrer and motion to strike filed by the entity defendants.  
The court did not consider the opposition papers to the demurrer and
motion to strike filed by the entity defendants because they were not served
and filed at least nine court days before the hearing on these matters.  (Pl. Opp. to Demurrer, p. 13 [proof of
service of opposition on July 3, 2024, i.e., eight court days before the
hearing]; Pl. Opp. to Mot. to Strike, p. 12 [proof of service of opposition on
July 3, 2024, i.e., eight court days before the hearing]; Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b).) 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff A. Goertz
(“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action on December 7, 2023, against
defendants PUBG Santa Monica, Inc., PUBG Entertainment, Inc., Krafton, Inc.,
Striking Distance Studios, Inc., Krafton Ventures Fund, LP., Krafton Ventures,
Inc., Krafton Ventures, LLC, Krafton Americas, Inc., and Kevin Kimball.  The Complaint alleges six causes of action for
(1) harassment (sex); (2) discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment
and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) (“FEHA”); (3) wrongful termination
in violation of public policy; (4) retaliation; (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (6) false imprisonment. 
Now pending before the court
are two sets of responsive pleadings.  
First, on March 8, 2024,
defendant Kevin Kimball (“Kimball”) filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint,
moving the court for an order sustaining his demurrer to Plaintiff’s first
through fourth causes of action.  
Second, defendants PUBG Santa
Monica, Inc., PUBG Entertainment, Inc., Striking Distance Studios, Inc.,
Krafton Ventures Fund, L.P., Krafton Ventures, Inc., Krafton Ventures, LLC, and
Krafton Americas, Inc. (collectively, the “Entity Defendants”) filed a demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint on March 15, 2024, and on March 18, 2024, filed a motion
to strike portions of the Complaint, moving the court for an order (1)
sustaining their demurrer to each cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint, and (2) striking from the Complaint the prayer for punitive damages,
the allegations regarding alter ego liability, and other allegations as
improper or irrelevant.
DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANT KIMBALL
The court overrules Kimball’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for statutory harassment because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing that (1) she was
a member of a protected class (Compl., ¶ 16 [Plaintiff is a woman]); (2) she
was subjected to unwelcome harassment by Kimball when he, at a work-related
function, sexually assaulted her and forced himself on her in a bathroom stall (Compl.,
¶¶ 17-18); (3) the harassment was based on Plaintiff’s membership in an
enumerated class (i.e., because of her gender) (Compl., ¶ 17 [Kimball violated
Plaintiff’s rights “based on her gender”]); and (4) the harassment unreasonably
interfered with her work performance because it was sufficiently severe and
pervasive enough to alter the conditions of Plaintiff’s employment and to
create a hostile and offensive working environment (Compl., ¶¶ 25, 39).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Martin
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th
149, 170 [elements of prima facie case of unlawful harassment under FEHA]; Beltran
v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 878 [“‘Sexual
harassment consists of any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual
favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature’”].)
The court sustains Kimball’s demurrer to the second, third, and fourth
causes of action because Plaintiff has stated, in her opposition, that she
“would agree to Amend her Complaint and remove Defendant Kimball from her
Second Cause of Action for Retaliation, Third Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination and her Fourth Cause of Action for Discrimination.”  (Opp., p. 6:3-5.)  Because Plaintiff has agreed to dismiss her
second, third, and fourth causes of action against Kimball, the court sustains
his demurrer to those causes of action without leave to amend.
DEMURRER
FILED BY ENTITY DEFENDANTS
The court overrules Entity Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first
through fourth causes of action on the ground that they do not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action because Plaintiff did not
sufficiently allege that Entity Defendants acted as her employer since
Plaintiff (1) has defined “Defendants” to include all of the Entity Defendants
(Compl., ¶ 10), and (2) has alleged facts establishing that she was employed by
Entity Defendants by alleging that  (i) she
“was employed by Defendants” (Compl., ¶ 17) and (ii) she “worked for
Defendants” (Compl., ¶¶ 18, 31).  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  The
court acknowledges, as Entity Defendants have noted, that Plaintiff has also
alleged that she was working in the Publishing Department of defendant Krafton,
Inc., from whom she was paid (Compl., ¶ 16). 
However, as set forth above, Plaintiff has also alleged that she worked
for and was employed by all Entity Defendants, which the court must accept as
true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078 [“a demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts
. . . .”].) 
The court overrules Entity Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of
action for statutory harassment because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since (1) as set forth above, the court has found
that Plaintiff sufficiently alleged that she was employed by Entity Defendants
(Compl., ¶¶ 17-18); (2) Plaintiff alleged that the actionable conduct committed
by Kimball, Entity Defendants’ executive, was based on her gender (Compl., ¶ 17);
and (3) Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing that the sexual assault by
Kimball was sufficiently severe or pervasive as to alter the terms of her
employment (Compl., ¶¶ 17-18, 39).  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Martin, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at
p. 170 [elements of prima facie case of unlawful harassment under FEHA].) 
The court sustains Entity Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of
action for discrimination because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing
that “some other circumstance [underlying the adverse employment action taken
against her (i.e., her termination)] suggested discriminatory motive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Khoiny
v. Dignity Health (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 390, 397 [elements of prima facie
case of discrimination under FEHA].) 
Instead, the facts appear to allege that Entity Defendants terminated
her not because of discriminatory animus, but in retaliation for reporting the
sexual assault and sexual harassment by Kimball (Compl., ¶ 19). 
The court sustains Entity Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of
action for violation of public policy because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since     (1) this cause of action appears to be
derivative of the second cause of action for discrimination (Compl., ¶ 54
[above-referenced actions constitutes a wrongful termination]), and (2) the
court has sustained Entity Defendants’ demurrer to that cause of action for the
reasons set forth above.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Featherstone v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1169 [“Under California law, if
an employer did not violate FEHA, the employee’s claim for wrongful termination
in violation of public policy necessarily fails”].)  The court notes that it has overruled Entity
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action for retaliation set forth
below, which may support a wrongful termination cause of action.  However, it is unclear whether Plaintiff
intended to support her wrongful termination cause of action on the claim for
retaliation because (1) the third cause of action states it is based on,
generally, the “above referenced actions” (Compl., ¶ 54), which (2) do not
include or appear to reference the fourth cause of action for retaliation and
instead appear to refer to the actions alleged in support of the second cause
of action for discrimination.
The court overrules Entity Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of
action for retaliation because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action since Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing that she engaged in a
protected activity by “complain[ing] to [Entity] Defendants’ management about
both [the] sexual assault and the hostile working environment and the
discrimination she experienced” (Compl., ¶ 61). 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879 [elements of prima facie case of retaliation under
FEHA].)  
The court overrules Entity Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff (1) has alleged that
Entity Defendants created a hostile work environment by, inter alia, condoning
the sexual assault committed against Plaintiff by Kimball (Compl., ¶ 20) and allowing
to exist a hostile, oppressive, dangerous, and violent work environment
(Compl., ¶ 18), and therefore (2) has alleged facts establishing that Entity
Defendants’ conduct was so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [elements of intentional
infliction of emotional distress]; Id. at p. 1051 [“If properly pled, a
claim of sexual harassment can establish ‘the outrageous behavior element of a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress’”].) 
The court overrules Entity Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of
action for false imprisonment because Entity Defendants have not met their
burden to show that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since (1) Plaintiff appears to allege that Entity Defendants are liable
for Kimball’s false imprisonment of her on the ground that they ratified his
wrongful conduct (Compl., ¶ 73 [alleging that each defendant was Plaintiff’s
employer and supervisor, each had the right and duty to stop the actions, and each
ratified Kimball’s conduct]), but (2) Entity Defendants did not, in their
demurrer, challenge their liability on this ground.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Demurrer, pp. 11:22-12:5; Samantha B. v. Aurora Vista Del Mar, LLC (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 85, 109 [“As an alternative to respondeat superior, an employer
may be liable for an employee’s act where the employer subsequently ratifies
the originally unauthorized tort”].) 
MOTION
TO STRIKE FILED BY ENTITY DEFENDANTS
Entity Defendants move the court for an order striking the following
from Plaintiff’s Complaint: (1) the allegations regarding the existence of an
alter ego relationship set forth in paragraphs 10, 13-15, and 48, in their
entirety; (2) the references to “PUBG” in the entirety of paragraph 2 and a
portion of paragraph 10; (3) the references to punitive damages in the portions
of paragraphs 31 and 35, the allegations in support of the request for punitive
damages in paragraphs 42, 52, 57, 64, and 70, in their entirety, and the
prayers for punitive damages; (4) the request for attorney’s fees in paragraph
63; (5) the term “stalking” in a portion of paragraph 29; (6) the reference to
“12950” in paragraphs 30 and 34; (7) the reference to “12940(h)(3)” in a
portion of paragraph 36; (8) the reference to “(f)” in a portion of paragraph
40; and (9) the portion of paragraph 45 stating “December 8, 2023.”
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts supporting
her claim that Entity Defendants are alter egos of each other (i.e., that there
is such a unity of interest and ownership between them that the separate
personalities do not exist and that there would be an inequitable result if the
acts are treated as those of one entity alone), and therefore grants Entity
Defendants’ motion to strike the references and allegations of “alter ego” in
(1) the portion of paragraph 10 on page 3, line 27, and (2) the portion of
paragraph 13 on page 4, lines 17 and 19. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Cam-Carson, LLC v. Carson
Reclamation Authority (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 549 [elements of alter ego
doctrine].)  The court denies Entity
Defendants’ request to strike the other allegations in paragraph 13, and
paragraphs 14-15 and 48 in their entirety, because those paragraphs allege facts
independent of the alter ego doctrine (e.g., that Entity Defendants are
partners, co-owners, associates, joint venturers, principals and agents, and/or
employers-employees of the others, and that they ratified the acts of each
other).  (Compl., ¶¶ 13, 14-15, 48.)
Second, the court denies Entity Defendants’ motion to strike paragraph
2 and the portion of paragraph 10 referring to defendant PUBG Santa Monica,
Inc., because Entity Defendants have not cited any allegation in the Complaint
or judicially noticed document establishing that defendant PUBG Santa Monica,
Inc. is not a separate entity that is capable of being sued.  (Mot., p. 9:1-7.) 
Third, the court denies Entity Defendants’ motion to strike the
prayers for punitive damages (Compl., Prayer, p. 11:10, 11:18) and related
allegations (Compl., ¶¶ 31, 35, 42, 64, and 70) because Plaintiff has alleged
facts establishing that Entity Defendants’ officers, directors, and/or managing
agents authorized or ratified an act of oppression and fraud (i.e., the sexual
assault committed against Plaintiff by Kimball).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Compl.,
¶¶ 20 [Entity Defendants, including their managerial employees, allowed the
harassment to exist], 21 [Entity Defendants’ and their officers, directors, and
managing agents were aware of and had notice of the perverse and harassing
conduct but did not address Kimball’s sexual assault], 22, 27; Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (b); College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 726 [ratification occurs where “the employer demonstrates an
intent to adopt or approve oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious behavior by an
employee in the performance of his job duties”]; Ibid. [“Corporate
ratification in the punitive damages context requires actual knowledge of the
conduct and its outrageous nature”].)  The court denies as moot the motion to strike
the requests for punitive damages in paragraphs 52 and 57 because those
allegations are included in the second and third causes of action, to which the
court has sustained Entity Defendants’ demurrer.
Fourth, court grants Entity Defendants’ motion to strike the request
for attorney’s fees pursuant to Civil Code section 52, subdivision (b)(3) in
paragraph 63 (page 13, line 11) because (1) that statute allows for the
recovery of attorney’s fees for the denial of a right provided by Civil Code
sections 51.7 (the Ralph Civil Rights Act of 1976) or 51.9, but (2) Plaintiff
has not alleged that Entity Defendants violated those statutes in her
Complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a); Civ. Code, §§ 52, subd. (b)(3), 51.7, subd. (a), 51.9.)  
Fifth, the court denies Entity Defendants’ motion to strike (1) the
term “stalking” in paragraph 29, and (2) the references to Government Code
section 12950 in paragraphs 30 and 34, because the court finds that Entity
Defendants have not shown that they are irrelevant, false, or improper and
therefore subject to a motion to strike. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683 [motions to strike should not be used as a line item
veto for the civil defendant].)  
Sixth, the court grants Entity Defendants’ motion to strike the
reference to Government Code section 12940, subdivision (h)(3) because that
statute does not exist.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Gov. Code, § 12940.)
Seventh, the court grants Entity Defendants’ motion to strike the
reference to Government Code section 12940, subdivision (f) in paragraph 40,
because (1) that provision declares it an unlawful employment practice for an
employer to require medical or psychological examinations of an employee or to
make any medical or psychological inquiry of an employee, but (2) Plaintiff has
referenced this statute in support of her assertion that Entity Defendants’
conduct constitutes unlawful harassment in violation of that statute (Compl., ¶
40).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a).) 
Finally, the court denies Entity Defendants’ motion to strike the
reference to December 8, 2023 in paragraph 45 because Entity Defendants have
not shown that this allegation is false, irrelevant, or improper.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court, however, acknowledges that
Plaintiff appears to have made a typographical error in identifying the date of
the alleged sexual assault in this paragraph. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 17, 34 [alleging the date of the subject incident to be
December 8, 2022].)  The court will grant
Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint to allege the correct date of the
subject incident. 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendant Kevin
Kimball’s demurrer to plaintiff A. Goertz’s first cause of action for statutory
harassment. 
            The court sustains defendant Kevin
Kimball’s demurrer to plaintiff A. Goertz’s second, third, and fourth causes of
action without leave to amend. 
            The court overrules defendants PUBG Santa Monica, Inc., PUBG
Entertainment, Inc., Striking Distance Studios, Inc., Krafton Ventures Fund,
L.P., Krafton Ventures, Inc., Krafton Ventures, LLC, and Krafton Americas,
Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiff A. Goertz’s first and fourth through sixth causes
of action. 
            The
court sustains defendants PUBG Santa Monica, Inc., PUBG Entertainment, Inc.,
Striking Distance Studios, Inc., Krafton Ventures Fund, L.P., Krafton Ventures,
Inc., Krafton Ventures, LLC, and Krafton Americas, Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiff
A. Goertz’s second and third causes of action with leave to amend. 
            The
court grants defendants PUBG Santa Monica, Inc., PUBG Entertainment, Inc.,
Striking Distance Studios, Inc., Krafton Ventures Fund, L.P., Krafton Ventures,
Inc., Krafton Ventures, LLC, and Krafton Americas, Inc.’s motion to strike the
following from plaintiff A. Goertz’s Complaint, with leave to amend: (1) the
term “alter ego” in paragraph 10 (page 3, line 27); (2) the terms “alter ego”
in paragraph 13 (page 4, lines 17 and 19); (3) “California Civil Code §
52(b)(3)” in paragraph 63 (page 13, line 11); (4) the reference to
“12940(h)(3)” in paragraph 36 (page 9, line 9); and (5) the reference to
subdivision “(f)” in paragraph 40 (page 9, line 23).
            The court denies all other relief
requested in defendants PUBG Santa
Monica, Inc., PUBG Entertainment, Inc., Striking Distance Studios, Inc.,
Krafton Ventures Fund, L.P., Krafton Ventures, Inc., Krafton Ventures, LLC, and
Krafton Americas, Inc.’s motion to strike.
            The
court grants plaintiff A. Goertz 20 days leave to file a First Amended
Complaint that cures the defects in the Complaint set forth in this ruling. 
The court orders plaintiff A. Goertz to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 16, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court