  Case Number:  19STCV28264    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-29-24
Case #19STCV28264 , Rody Castroll vs. California Police
Athletic Federation, et al.
Trial Date: 11-4-24
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles Sheriff’s Athletic Association
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
For the Court
to enter an order for terminating sanctions and dismiss Defendant from this
action.
 
RULING: Defendant’s
motion for terminating sanctions is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Rody
Castroll (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant Los Angeles Sheriff’s
Athletic Association (Defendant) and other defendants on August 9, 2019. Defendant
was not served with this lawsuit until December 7, 2021.
 
On November 21,
2022, Defendant served Form Interrogatories, Set Two, to which Plaintiff never
replied. On December 5, 2023, this Court entered an order compelling
Plaintiff’s response to those Interrogatories and ordering Plaintiff to provide
objection-free responses within 20 days. Plaintiff did not serve the responses
and has thus violated the Court Order.
 
On December 28,
2023, Defendant filed this motion for terminating sanctions because of Plaintiff’s
failure to obey the Court’s orders to respond to the discovery. Defendant
argues that terminating sanctions are appropriate because of Plaintiff’s
continued and consistent failure to submit to an authorized method of discovery
and because Plaintiff willfully disobeyed a court order. Plaintiff has not
filed any opposition to this motion.
 
Additionally, apart
from filing a notice of appeal in December 2023 that was dismissed for failing
to pay a filing fee, Plaintiff has done little to participate in this
litigation since November 2022 when Plaintiff failed to respond to discovery
requests. As noted below, Plaintiff has since failed to respond to further
discovery requests or oppose motions to compel responses, and notices mailed to
Plaintiff by the Court have been returned stating that Plaintiff did not live
at the address that Plaintiff provided to the Court and had no forwarding
address.
 
Defendant also
filed a motion deem requests for admissions admitted, a motion to compel
responses to requests for production, and a motion to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Three, on December 28, 2023. Plaintiff did not file any
opposition to those motions either, and the Court is granting those motions.
 
ANALYSIS
It is a misuse
of the discovery process to fail to respond or submit to an authorized form of
discovery. (CCP § 2023.010(d).) It is also a misuse of the discovery process to
disobey a court order to provide discovery. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) “To the extent
authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method…, the
court, after notice to any affected party . . . and after opportunity for
hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process: (d) […] a terminating sanction […].”
(CCP § 2023.030(d).) The terminating sanction may: (1) strike out the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; and/or (2) render
a judgment by default against that party. (CCP § 2023.030(d)(1), (4).)
 
“If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.)
 
Plaintiff has
failed to participate in the litigation in any meaningful way in over a year,
and notices mailed to Plaintiff came back with no forwarding address. Plaintiff
failed to respond to Defendant’s discovery requests. Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s
recent motions to compel discovery. Plaintiff disobeyed the Court orders
compelling responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two. Plaintiff
has also not filed any opposition to Defendant’s motion for terminating
sanctions.
 
Based on the
foregoing, it appears that Plaintiff has no intention of further litigating
this case against Defendant Los Angeles Sheriff’s Athletic Association.
Terminating sanctions are appropriate.
 
Defendant’s
motion for terminating sanctions is granted. Defendant is stricken from
Plaintiff’s complaint and is dismissed from the case.
 
Additionally, Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment filed on October 18, 2023, and also set for hearing
on May 29, 2024, is deemed moot by the granting of this motion for terminating
sanctions. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is taken off calendar.
 
Moving party to
give notice.