 Case Number:  23CHCV01472    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-29-24
Case #23CHCV01472, Jesus Santana vs. Craig Brian Forry
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Craig Brian Forry
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jesus Santana
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty and Duty of Loyalty
·        
2nd Cause of Action for
Fraud-Concealment
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Negligence
·        
4th Cause of Action for Professional
Negligence
·        
5th Cause of Action for Declaratory
Relief
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend
for the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action, Demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend for the Fifth Cause of Action.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff Jesus Santana (Plaintiff) filed
his complaint with five causes of action for (1) Breach of fiduciary duty and
duty of loyalty; (2) fraud-concealment; (3) negligence; (4) professional
negligence; and (5) declaratory relief. These causes of action are related to
an alleged amendment that Defendant Craig Brian Forry (Defendant) was retained
to make to the living trust of Decedent Violet Evelyn Alberts.
 
On March 6, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to
set aside or vacate default and deemed Defendant’s demurrer filed on that date.
Defendant demurs to all five of Plaintiff’s causes of action. Per the Court’s
March 6 Minute Order, Plaintiff’s opposition was to be served and filed no
later than April 29, 2024. However, Plaintiff did not file his opposition until
May 15, 2024. Furthermore, Plaintiff opposes the motion only on the grounds
that the demurrer was filed late based on when Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
was served, but on March 6, the Court deemed Defendant’s demurrer filed and set
a briefing schedule for the opposition and reply. Plaintiff’s opposition also
appears to be based on the belief that Defendant was still in default, but the
default was vacated and the Court set the current briefing schedule. Plaintiff
has ignored the Court’s order. Because Plaintiff’s motion was filed so late and
is based on irrelevant grounds, the Court will not consider Plaintiff’s
opposition to Defendant’s demurrer. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice: Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of an entry of order after
evidentiary hearing on petition to invalidate purported first amendment to
trust filed on October 16, 2023. The Court notices the existence of this
document.
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial on Reply: With
Defendant’s reply, Defendant filed a request for judicial notice requesting
that the Court take judicial notice of this Court’s minute order from March 6,
2024, and Defendant’s Notice of Ruling from March 7, 2024. The Court take
judicial notice of these documents.
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of
Aldo A. Flores:
            Sustained:
1
            Overruled:
None
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Defendant demurs to the First Cause of Action on the basis
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
because Plaintiff lacks standing.
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary
duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach. (Gutierrez v. Girardi
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 932.)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Defendant owed him a
fiduciary duty because Plaintiff was named as beneficiary to Decedent Violet
Alberts’ living trust in an amendment to the trust in 2020. (Comp., ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff alleges that the fiduciary duty was breached because Defendant did not
provide a certificate of trust at the time of amendment. (Comp., ¶¶ 7-8.) However,
Plaintiff did not attach the trust or the alleged amendment to his complaint. 
 
Defendant argues in his demurrer that this breach of
fiduciary duty cause of action is similar to a breach of contract and fails
because Plaintiff has not pled the terms of the contract, which would be the
trust in this case. The Court agrees to the extent that Plaintiff cannot show
that he has standing to pursue this action without providing the alleged
amendment naming him as beneficiary. Plaintiff needs to plead the terms of the
contract, i.e., the trust amendment., or attach a copy of it to his complaint. (See
Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394,
402.)
 
To the extent that Defendant is arguing that Plaintiff
cannot maintain this action because the trust amendment was invalidated by the
Santa Barbara Court, it is unknown as this time whether Plaintiff’s alleged
amendment and the amendment that was invalidated in the Court Order dated October
13, 2023, are one in the same because Plaintiff has not provided the Court with
a copy of the amendment. This Court also notes that the Santa Barbara Court’s
order does not mention lack of a certificate of trust as being one of the
grounds for invalidating the trust amendment.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action for Fraud-Concealment
Defendant demurs to the Second Cause of Action on the basis
that it fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
because Plaintiff lacks standing.
 
A fraud cause of action requires a Plaintiff to plead and
prove: “(a) [a] misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal 4th 631, 638.) Fraud
causes of action must be pled with specificity. “…This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom
and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield v.
Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73, quoting Hills Trans. Co. v.
Southwest (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)
 
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged intent on the part of
Defendant. Nor has Plaintiff alleged how, when, where, or by what means the
misrepresentations or concealments were made. Without these allegations,
Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action for fraud-concealment.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligence
Defendant demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the basis
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and because
Plaintiff lacks standing.
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty,
breach, proximate cause, and damages. (See Peredia v. HR Mobile Services,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to show that
Defendant owed any duty to Plaintiff because Plaintiff has not attached the
alleged trust amendment to the complaint or otherwise shown that he has
standing to bring this action. The Court agrees. Plaintiff has not provided
sufficient facts to demonstrate that Defendant owed him a duty.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Professional Negligence
Defendant demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action on the basis
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
because Plaintiff lacks standing.
 
Defendant argues that there are not sufficient allegations
that the Decedent had an attorney-client relationship with Defendant. However,
Plaintiff’s complaint does allege that Defendant was “retained in relation to
the decedent with amendment in her living trust.” (Comp., ¶ 37.) That being
said, this cause of action fails for the same reason that the negligence cause
of action fails: Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that Defendant owed him
any duty.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
Defendant demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action on the basis
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
because Plaintiff lacks standing.
 
Declaratory relief is a remedy, not a cause of action,
because it is typically derivative of other causes of action. (See Faunce v.
Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 173.) In this case, Plaintiff’s
declaratory relief cause of action is wholly derivative of his causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, and negligence. (Comp., ¶ 47.) Therefore,
Plaintiff cannot maintain a separate cause of action for declaratory relief.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third, and
Fourth Causes of Action is sustained with leave to amend. Defendant’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is given 20 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.