 Case Number:  22STCV12323    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ALLA KUTZ, et al., 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
MIKHAIL SIRETSKIY, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV12323
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 05, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant Aykem, LLC (“Aykem”) demurs to the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiffs Alla Kutz and Igor Kutz (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).

 
Aykem moves to strike portions of the FAC relating to
attorney’s fees, prejudgment interest, and punitive and exemplary damages. 
 
Aykem moves to expunge the notice of lis pendens currently
recorded on the property located at 5325 Cangas Drive, Calabasas, California
91301, APN: 2052-036-005. Aykem additionally moves for an award of attorney’s
fees.
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the seventh claim.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the first, third, and
sixth claims WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the remaining claims WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to strike as moot.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to expunge the notice of lis
pendens.
 
The Court does not award attorney’s fees.
 
Background
 
This case involves a contract for partial sale of the real
property located at 5325 Cangas Drive, Calabasas, California 91301, APN:
2052-036-005 (the “Property”).
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Mikhail Siretskiy
(“Siretskiy”) promised to sell 36 percent of the Property to Plaintiffs but
failed to timely close escrow on May 10, 2021. Plaintiffs allege that Siretskiy
engaged in fraud during the transaction and are seeking to rescind the contract
and obtain money damages as a result.
 
On August 12, 2019, Siretskiy took title to the Property.
(Aykem’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. A.) 
 
On January 16, 2020, Siretskiy quitclaimed the Property to
Defendant Cangas RE LLC (“Cangas”). (FAC ¶ 13.)
 
Plaintiffs alleged that Siretskiy falsely represented to
Plaintiffs in January 2021 that he owned the Property. (FAC ¶ 24.)
 
On January 14, 2021, Plaintiffs and Siretskiy signed the
Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“Purchase
Agreement”) under which Siretskiy agreed to sell Plaintiffs a 36 percent
interest for $756,000.00, with an initial deposit of $349,000.00. (FAC ¶ 21,
Ex. A.) Siretskiy agreed to close escrow on May 10, 2021. (FAC ¶ 21.) Siretskiy
agreed that possession of Plaintiffs’ portion of the Property would be
delivered to Plaintiffs on the date of close of escrow. (FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Defendant Big Block
Realty, Inc. (“BBR”), through its employee Siretskiy, was the dual broker on
the sale of the Property and represented both Plaintiff and Siretskiy. (FAC ¶
22.) Siretskiy was thus the real estate agent who represented both sides of the
transaction. (FAC ¶ 22.)
 
On February 2, 2021, Plaintiffs and Siretskiy entered into an
escrow with Defendant Cal West Escrow (“Cal West”). (FAC ¶ 29.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that Cal West wrongfully released
Plaintiffs’ initial deposit to Cangas. (FAC ¶ 31.) 
 
Defendants Siretskiy, BBR, and Cal West did not close the
escrow on May 10, 2021, nor did they convey the Property to Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶
37.) Plaintiffs allege that Siretskiy absconded with Plaintiffs’ $349,000.00
deposit. (FAC ¶ 42.)
 
On May 26, 2021, Cangas provided Aykem with a deed of trust
and assignment of rents against the Property (the “Deed of Trust”), which was
recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on June 21, 2021 as
Instrument No. 20210971060. (FAC ¶ 35; Aykem’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex.
C.) The Deed of Trust was related to a $500,000.00 loan made by Aykem to
Cangas. (FAC ¶¶ 40-41.) Cal West served as the escrow agent for the loan and
closed that escrow on June 21, 2021. (Complaint ¶ 40.) Cal West never disclosed
the Aykem loan to Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶ 45.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this case on April 12, 2022, raising claims
for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) negligence; (4)
fraud; (5) constructive fraud; and (6) rescission. Plaintiff did not name Aykem
as a defendant in the original Complaint.
 
On April 27, 2022, Plaintiff recorded a lis pendens against
the Property in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office. Aykem contends that Plaintiff
did not serve the lis pendens on Aykem.
 
On May 26, 2022, a Notice of Default and Election to Sell
under Deed of Trust was recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office
as Instrument No. 20220566102 (the “Notice of Default”). (Aykem’s Request for
Judicial Notice, Ex. F.)
 
On August 30, 2022, a Notice of Sale was recorded with the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20220859602. (Aykem’s
Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. G.) The Notice of Sale provided information
about the date, time, and place of the sale of the Property.
 
On September 27, 2022, Aykem purchased the Property at a
foreclosure auction. On October 17, 2022, the Trustee’s Deed upon Sale was
recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office. (Aykem’s Request for
Judicial Notice, Ex. H.) Plaintiffs allege that no one other than Siretskiy,
his wife, and Aykem attended the foreclosure sale. (FAC ¶ 45.)
 
In August 2023, Aykem listed the Property for sale for
approximately $2.1 million, which is roughly the same value that Siretskiy
assigned to the Property in the Purchase Agreement with Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶ 43.)
 
In October 2023, Aykem was in the process of selling the
Property.
 
On November 7, 2023, Aykem brought an ex parte application
to intervene in this matter and expunge the lis pendens. The Court denied the
ex parte application.
 
On April 24, 2024, Aykem filed a motion for leave to
intervene. Plaintiff opposed the motion.
 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for leave to amend the
Complaint to add Aykem as a defendant under Code of Civil Procedure, section
473 and to add a seventh cause of action for fraudulent transfer. Aykem opposed
the motion.
 
On May 29, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for
leave to amend and denied Aykem’s motion to intervene as moot.
 
Plaintiffs filed the FAC on May 29, 2024. The FAC raises
claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) negligence;
(4) fraud; (5) constructive fraud; (6) rescission; and (7) fraudulent transfer.
 
On September 26, 2024, Aykem filed its demurrer and motion
to strike. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated opposition to both motions. Aykem
filed a reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition.
 
On September 30, 2024, Aykem filed its motion to expunge lis
pendens. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Aykem filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice
and takes notice of the requested materials as public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer
 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to
the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
 
(a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have the
legal capacity to sue.
(c) There is
another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.
(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.
(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
(f) The pleading is
uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.
(g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Motion to Expunge Notice of Lis Pendens
 
“A party to an action who asserts a real property claim may
record a notice of pendency of action in which that real property claim is
alleged. The notice may be recorded in the office of the recorder of each
county in which all or part of the real property is situated. The notice shall
contain the names of all parties to the action and a description of the
property affected by the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.20.)
 
“Except in actions subject to Section 405.6, the claimant
shall, prior to recordation of the notice, cause a copy of the notice to be
mailed, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to all known
addresses of the parties to whom the real property claim is adverse and to all
owners of record of the real property affected by the real property claim as
shown by the latest county assessment roll. …. Immediately following
recordation, a copy of the notice shall also be filed with the court in which
the action is pending. Service shall also be made immediately and in the same
manner upon each adverse party later joined in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.22.)
 
“At any time after a notice of pendency of action has been
recorded, any party . . . with an interest in the real property affected
thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to expunge the
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §405.30.) 
 
A lis pendens may be expunged either (1) if the pleadings do
not contain a real property claim, or (2) if the court finds that the party
claiming the lis pendens has not established by a preponderance of the evidence
the probable validity of the real property claim. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31,
405.32.) 
 
The party asserting the lis pendens has the burden of proof
under Section 405.31 and Section 405.32.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30) The burden
is to demonstrate that their pleadings contain a real property claim and that
the probable validity of their real property claim can be established by a
preponderance of the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., §405.31; see also McKnight
v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal. App. 3d 291, 298 [“the burden is upon the
recording party to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that the
action was commenced and prosecuted for a proper purpose and in good faith”] .)
“Probable validity” exists when “it is more likely than not that the claimant
will obtain a judgment on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.3.)¿ 
 
Any time after a notice of pendency of action has been
recorded the court may also “upon motion by any person with an interest in the
property, require the claimant to give the moving party an undertaking as a
condition of maintain the notice in the record title.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.34.) 
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer
 
First, Third, and Sixth Claims
 
Plaintiffs state in their opposition that they did not
intend to include Aykem as a defendant on the first, third, or sixth causes of
action, and that Aykem was named under those claims as a clerical error.
Plaintiffs state that they do not object to an order clarifying that Aykem is
not a defendant as to these claims.
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to the first,
third, and sixth claims without leave to amend.
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Second Claim
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship,
breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)

 
Aykem argues that the statute of limitations has run for Plaintiff’s
second, fourth, and fifth claims. The statute of limitations for claims arising
out of fraud is three years. (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
594, 606–607; Code Civ. Proc. §§ 343, 338, subd. (d).)
 
The gravamen of Plaintiffs’ complaint appears to indicate that
May 10, 2021 - the date escrow was required to close - represents the latest
possible accrual date for their claims. This was the critical moment when
Plaintiffs knew or should have known of their alleged injuries. Indeed, this
date is the cornerstone of their entire complaint, as Plaintiffs repeatedly
allege that the failure to close escrow on May 10, 2021, triggered their
damages. Although Plaintiffs state that they do not concede that May 10, 2021
is the accrual date for their claims, they do not provide an alternate date or
legal theory indicating when their claims accrued.
 
Plaintiffs moved for leave to amend and filed the proposed
FAC on May 6, 2024, less than three years after the accrual date – less than
three years after the accrual date. The motion was granted, and the FAC
officially filed, on May 29, 2024 – more than three years after the accrual
date.
 
“[A]n amended complaint that adds a new defendant does not
relate back to the date of filing the original complaint and the statute of
limitations is applied as of the date the amended complaint is filed, not the
date the original complaint is filed.” (Woo v. Superior Court (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 169, 176 [emphasis added].) An amended complaint is deemed filed
for the purposes of the statute of limitations when the plaintiff files the
proposed amended complaint in connection with a motion for leave to amend. (Weiner
v. Superior Court (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 525, 529-531.) This is because a
plaintiff could just as easily file the new claim as a separate action,
triggering no statute of limitations issue, and because a plaintiff has no
control over the date when a court will act upon a motion for leave to amend. (Id.
at p. 530.) Aykem argues that an amended complaint does not relate back to the
filing of the motion for leave to amend, but provides no direct authority on
this issue other than Woo v. Superior Court, supra. The Court
therefore concludes that Plaintiffs’ claims with three-year statutes of
limitations were timely filed.
 
The Court now proceeds to the merits of this claim.
 
Plaintiffs do not allege that Aykem owed a fiduciary duty to
Plaintiffs. Rather, Plaintiffs allege that Aykem aided and abetted and
conspired with Siretskiy, BBR, and Cal West in their alleged breaches of
fiduciary duties. Plaintiffs allege that Aykem did this by issuing the Aykem
loan and then foreclosing on it. 
 
Plaintiffs have not alleged conduct that shows Aykem was
involved in the other Defendants’ wrongful conduct. Plaintiffs allege that they
paid the deposit in February 2021 and that Siretskiy, BBR, and Cal West failed
to close escrow on May 10, 2021. Plaintiffs allege that Aykem did not issue its
loan or receive the Deed of Trust until May 26, 2021 – after the other
defendants’ alleged wrongful conduct. At most, Plaintiff has alleged that the
other defendants turned around and gave another party an interest against the
Property – not that Aykem induced or intentionally aided in their doing so.
While “a defendant who assists in an ongoing tort may be held liable as a
coconspirator”, a defendant “could not join in a conspiracy that had been
completed.” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
1571, 1595–1596.)
 
Further, Plaintiffs allege no facts showing that Aykem
shared an agreement or common plan with the other defendants. “[C]ivil
conspiracy is a ‘legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Kidron
v. Movie Acquisition Corp., supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at p. 1581.)
Without facts showing a common plan, Plaintiff cannot allege conspiracy.
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim with
leave to amend.
 
Fraud – Fourth Claim
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 

The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged
factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of
“liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) “[Fraud’s] particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’ [Citation.]” (Stansfield v. Starkey
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “Less specificity is required when it appears
from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess
full information concerning the facts of the controversy.” (Wald v. TruSpeed
Motorcars, LLC (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 378, 394 [quotation marks omitted].)
 
To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
In establishing their fraud claim, Plaintiffs similarly rely
on the theories that Aykem aided, abetted, and conspired with Siretskiy, BBR,
Cangas, and Cal West. For the reasons discussed above, Plaintiffs have not
adequately pleaded facts to support those theories.
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim with
leave to amend.
 
Constructive Fraud – Fifth Claim
 
“Constructive fraud is a unique species of fraud applicable
only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.” (Prakashpalan v.
Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131 [citation
and quotation marks omitted].) “Constructive fraud arises on a breach of duty
by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another which induces
justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice.” (Ibid. [citation
and quotation marks omitted].) “Constructive fraud exists in cases in which
conduct, although not actually fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that is, in
which such conduct is a constructive or quasi fraud, having all the actual
consequences and all the legal effects of actual fraud.” (Ibid.
[citation and quotation marks omitted].)
 
The elements of a constructive fraud cause of action are (1)
a fiduciary duty or confidential relationship, (2) nondisclosure (breach of
fiduciary duty); (3) intent to deceive, and (4) reliance resulting in injury. (Younan
v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 516, fn. 14.)
 
In establishing their constructive fraud claim, Plaintiffs
similarly rely on the theories that Aykem aided, abetted, and conspired with
Siretskiy, BBR, Cangas, and Cal West. For the reasons discussed above,
Plaintiffs have not adequately pleaded facts to support those theories.
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim with
leave to amend.
 
Fraudulent Transfer – Seventh Claim
 
A creditor can void a debtor’s transfer or obligation if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation:
 
“(1) With actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any
creditor of the debtor.
 
(2) Without
receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation, and the debtor either:
 
(A) Was engaged or was about to
engage in a business or a transaction for which the remaining assets of the
debtor were unreasonably small in relation to the business or transaction.
 
(B) Intended to incur, or believed
or reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond
the debtor's ability to pay as they became due.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 3439.04, subd.
(a).)
 
“In determining
actual intent under paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), consideration may be
given, among other factors, to any or all of the following:
 
(1) Whether the transfer or
obligation was to an insider.
 
(2) Whether the debtor retained
possession or control of the property transferred after the transfer.
 
(3) Whether the transfer or
obligation was disclosed or concealed.
 
(4) Whether before the transfer was
made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had been sued or threatened with
suit.
 
(5) Whether the transfer was of
substantially all the debtor's assets.
 
(6) Whether the debtor absconded.
 
(7) Whether the debtor removed or
concealed assets.
 
(8) Whether the value of the
consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of
the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.
 
(9) Whether the debtor was
insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred.
 
(10) Whether the transfer occurred
shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt was incurred.
 
(11) Whether the debtor transferred
the essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to
an insider of the debtor.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 3439.04, subd. (b).)
 
            Plaintiffs’
basis for their fraudulent transfer claim is that Siretskiy and Cangas did not
receive reasonably equivalent value from Aykem for the Property and that
Siretskiy is showing signs of insolvency by not returning Plaintiffs’ deposit
and committing a number of defaults in this case. 
 
            When
analyzing reasonably equivalent value, courts evaluate “the values of the
property transferred as of the date of transfer, which date is the critical
date against which the validity of the transfers is to be tested.” (Bailey
v. Leeper (1956) 142 Cal.App.2d 460, 465.)
            
            Aykem
argues that the Court should evaluate the transfer as the provision of the
$500,000.00 deed of trust in exchange for the $500,000.00 loan. Plaintiffs
argue that the Court should evaluate the transfer as the provision of the
$500,000.00 loan in exchange for the Property, which Aykem later listed for
$2.1 million, and which the other defendants valued at a similar amount based
on the sale price to Plaintiffs for 36 percent of the Property. 
 
            Aykem
argues that the value paid at a foreclosure sale is presumed valid. “ ‘[A]
“reasonably equivalent value,” for foreclosed property, is the price in fact
received at the foreclosure sale, so long as all the requirements of the
State's foreclosure law have been complied with.’ ” (Alliance Mortgage Co. v.
Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1250, quoting BFP v. Resolution Trust Corp.
(1994) 511 U.S. 531, 545.) “Nothing in this conclusion negates the
well-established fraud exception in California to the finality of a
foreclosure, or indeed any, property sale.” (Alliance Mortgage Co. v.
Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1250–1251.) Thus, a foreclosure sale does
not preclude a claim of fraud as to the sale at the pleading stage. (Id.
at p. 1251.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs allege that the Siretskiy, BBR, Cangas, and Cal West committed fraud
against Plaintiff. Plaintiffs allege that Siretskiy’s procurement of the Aykem
loan was fraudulent. In support of this contention, Plaintiffs point to the
facts that Siretskiy (and Aykem, although they do not explain why Aykem had a
duty to disclose) concealed the Aykem loan from Plaintiffs, that Siretskiy
absconded with the deposit, that Siretskiy did not make any payments on the
loan, that Siretskiy may be insolvent (based on his failure to make any
payments on the loan), and that Siretskiy had recently undertaken substantial
debt by keeping Plaintiffs’ deposit. The Court finds that Plaintiffs have
adequately alleged facts showing fraudulent behavior by Siretskiy, even though
Plaintiffs have not alleged Aykem’s participation in a common plan.
 
            Aykem
argues that Plaintiffs have not properly tendered performance of Siretskiy’s
debt in order to void the foreclosure.
 
            “Every
person, having an interest in property subject to a lien, has a right to redeem
it from the lien, at any time after the claim is due, and before his right of
redemption is foreclosed, and, by such redemption, becomes subrogated to all
the benefits of the lien, as against all owners of other interests in the
property, except in so far as he was bound to make such redemption for their
benefit.” (Civ. Code, § 2903.) “Redemption from a lien is made by performing,
or offering to perform, the act for the performance of which it is a security,
and paying, or offering to pay, the damages, if any, to which the holder of the
lien is entitled for delay.” (Civ. Code, § 2905.)
 
            “[A]s
a condition precedent to an action by the borrower to set aside the trustee's
sale on the ground that the sale is voidable because of irregularities in the
sale notice or procedure, the borrower must offer to pay the full amount of the
debt for which the property was security. [Citation.] ‘The rationale behind the
rule is that if [the borrower] could not have redeemed the property had the
sale procedures been proper, any irregularities in the sale did not result in
damages to the [borrower].’ [Citation.]” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011)
202 Cal.App.4th 89, 112.) “Courts have found that tender is not required where
the borrower attacks the validity of the underlying debt[.]” (Kalnoki v.
First American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,
47.)
 
Because Plaintiffs attack the validity of the underlying
sale by Siretskiy and adequately allege fraudulent transfer on Siretskiy’s
part, the Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Because the Court grants leave to amend on the demurrer, the
Court denies the motion to strike as moot.
 
Motion to Expunge Notice of Lis Pendens
 
Procedural Requirements
 
“Any notice of pendency of action shall be void and invalid
as to any adverse party or owner of record unless the requirements of Section
405.22 are met for that party or owner and a proof of service in the form and
content specified in Section 1013a has been recorded with the notice of
pendency of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.23.)
 
“The notice requirement is intended to assure that property
owners receive prompt notice of the recording of a lis pendens.” (Biddle v.
Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 135, 137.) However, where a plaintiff
substantially complies with the notice statute and promptly conveys actual
notice to the affected party, the purpose of the statute is satisfied. (Ibid.)
In Biddle, the plaintiff filed a notice of lis pendens and mailed a copy
to the defendant simultaneously, sent it to the wrong location and did not
request a return receipt as required. (Id. at pp. 136-137.) The court
found that the plaintiff had substantially complied with the notice statute. (Id.
at p. 137.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs filed the notice of lis pendens months
before Aykem foreclosed on the Property in 2022. The managers of Aykem found
out about the lis pendens on May 27, 2022, shortly after it was filed.
(Ayzenberg Decl. ¶ 24; Kemel Decl. ¶ 25.) On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs’
counsel sent a copy of the lis pendens to Aykem’s real estate agents. Plaintiffs
did not formally serve Aykem with the lis pendens until November 19, 2024,
nearly six months after Plaintiffs added Aykem as a defendant in this case. Here,
while there was substantial delay, Aykem has actual notice of the lis pendens
prior to acquiring the property and eventually received formal service. The
Court finds that Plaintiffs have substantially complied with the service
requirements.
 
Substantive Requirements
 
A lis pendens must be expunged “if the court finds that the
party claiming the lis pendens has not established by a preponderance of the
evidence the probable validity of the real property claim. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
405.31, 405.32.) 
 
Aykem argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish the probable
validity of their fraudulent transfer claim.
 
“Every conveyance of real property or an estate for years
therein, other than a lease for a term not exceeding one year, is void as
against any subsequent purchaser or mortgagee of the same property, or any part
thereof, in good faith and for a valuable consideration, whose conveyance is
first duly recorded, and as against any judgment affecting the title, unless
the conveyance shall have been duly recorded prior to the record of notice of
action.” (Civ. Code, § 1214.)
 
Here, Aykem’s Deed of Trust was recorded on June 21, 2021.
(FAC ¶ 35; Aykem’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. C.) Plaintiffs had not
recorded a lien or notice against the Property as of June 1, 2021. (Lisitsa
Decl., Ex. C.) Plaintiffs did not record the lis pendens until over a year
later.
 
Plaintiffs do not contest that Aykem recorded its interest
first. They instead argue that Siretskiy’s procurement of the Aykem loan was
fraudulent. In support of this contention, Plaintiffs assert that Siretskiy
(and Aykem, although they do not explain why Aykem had a duty to disclose)
concealed the Aykem loan from Plaintiffs, that Siretskiy absconded with the
deposit, that Siretskiy did not make any payments on the loan, that Siretskiy
may be insolvent (based on his failure to make any payments on the loan), and
that Siretskiy had recently undertaken substantial debt by keeping Plaintiffs’
deposit. (See generally Kutz Decl.; Lisitza Decl.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have established probably
validity of their fraudulent transfer claim. The Court therefore denies the
motion to expunge the notice of lis pendens.
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Attorney’s Fees
 
Civil Procedure Code section 405.38, relating to motions for
expungement, states:  “The Court shall
direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded
the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion
unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s
fees and costs unjust.”  
 
The Court finds that Aykem’s prosecution of this motion was
substantially justified based on the lack of evidence of malfeasance by Aykem.
The Court therefore does not award attorney’s fees.
 
 