 Case Number:  23CHCV00689    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  F49 FURTHER FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants, Reza Abad, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, James Hoseini
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (set one)
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION 
Plaintiff
James Hoseini
owns and operates a business identified as Milan Door. On an unspecified date,
defendants Reza Abad and Aiden Bohloul
formed a California corporation identified as defendant Teza Products, Inc.,
doing business as “Teza Doors & Windows.” Abad and Bohloul
are the nephews of Plaintiff.  
 
In
May 2021, the parties entered into
a joint venture, whereby Plaintiff would merge operations of Milan Door with
Teza Doors & Windows in exchange for a 50% ownership interest, with Abad
and Bohloul
jointly owning (25% each) the remaining half. The individual defendants also
presented terms for business operations.  
 
On
August 14, 2021, the individual parties executed a written “Joint Venture and
Operating Agreement.” Prior to the execution of the agreement—June 15,
2021—Plaintiff “transferred…assets, inventory, receivables, and goodwill of
Milan Door” with certain business establishments “valued” at a minimum of one
million dollars.   
 
Notwithstanding
the agreement, Plaintiff alleges the individual defendants violated the
agreement in refusing to distribute net profits according to ownership
interests, denying Plaintiff access to the corporate bank account, making
purchases in excess of $5,000 without majority shareholder approval, removing
Plaintiff’s name as a designated officer in the corporate registration
documents with the California Secretary of State, transferring corporate assets
to personal bank accounts, conducting business as individuals rather than on
behalf of the corporate entity, transferring web-site operations to other
independently operated websites, and formation of three new corporate entities
and operations in two new locations, as well as two residential properties.  
 
On
March 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Fraud, Breach of Written
Contract, Breach of Oral Contract, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Accounting, and
Constructive Trust. On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint for Fraud, Breach of Written Contract, Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
Elder Abuse, Accounting, and Constructive Trust. On April 24, 2023, Defendants
answered and filed a verified cross-complaint for Fraud, Conversion,
Accounting, Indemnity, Constructive Trust, Permanent Injunction, And
Declaratory Relief. 
 
In
the cross-complaint, Abad and Bohloul
allege the existence of their own preexisting door businesses, and
contend Hoseini
was “hired” as an “independent contractor” for the Teza corporate entity in
June 2021. The cross-complaint acknowledge the later formation of the joint
venture, which was formed for the manufacture of wooden doors in Mexico. No
actual manufacturing or sales ever occurred, which led to the alleged
abandonment of the joint venture in September 2021. Although Hoseini
allegedly previously agreed to the independent contractor hiring, the
cross-complaint again alleges the hiring after the discontinuation of the Teza
joint venture.  
 
The
parties allegedly agreed to opening an operations hub in Houston, Texas,
whereby Hoseini
would be identified as the corporate secretary in order to execute documents on
behalf of the corporation. Abad and Bohloul
deny any other agreement for shares or ownership interests. 
 
Hoseini
executed a lease for commercial premises in Houston in May 2022, and amendment
to the lease in August 2022. In December 2022, Abad and Bohloul
allege Hoeine
“abandoned” the premises. Abad and Bohloul
“removed” Hoseini
as an officer of the corporation.  
 
On
an unspecified date, Hoseini
“locked Cross-Complainants out of the property and changed the locks” on the
premises identified as a “warehouse/office located at NORDHOFF” where Teza
conducted “business since 2020.” Abad and Bohloul
allege the lockout was
part of a greater scheme to default them into a acquiring the purported 50%
interest in Teza, along with the other identified conditions. Abad and Bohloul
additionally allege that following the lockout and assumption of control of the
premises, Hoseini
proceeded to transfer inventory to a new location, and selling items for
personal gain. Abad and Bohloul
also challenge the exhibits regarding the alleged written agreement of the
parties as incorporated into the first amended complaint, and
also offer factual challenges to specific
allegations of the complaint regarding the Nordhoff premises.  
 
On
April 25, 2023, the court granted in part and denied in part the ex parte
motion for temporary restraining order. The court enjoined Hoseini
from disposing, selling, liquidating or transferring any property from 20115
Nordhoff St., Chatsworth pending further adjudication of the action, and denied
all other requested relief. On May 30,
2023, the court denied the motion for preliminary injunction brought by Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Abad, Bohloul, and Teza Products, Inc., and dissolved the temporary restraining
order.
 
On
August 29, 2023, the court granted the motion of counsel for Hoseini to be
relieved as counsel of record. The court docket shows no new substitution of
counsel. 
 
On
September 1, 2023, Teza Products, Inc., Teza Doors, Inc., Reza Abad, and Aiden
Bholouli filed a first amended cross-complaint against Hoseini for Fraud,
Conversion, Constructive Trust, and Permanent Injunction.
 
RULING:
Granted.
Objections
to Supplemental Declaration: Overruled.
 
The court denies “the motion to strike” the motion, due to the failure
of responding party to reserve a hearing date within the reservation system,
and lack of any special setting by the court. Court
policy generally requires all hearings either specially set or reserved through
the computer reservation system. Even considering the request, the court finds
no basis of authority to block the filed the motion simply based on a
supplemental declaration. 
 
Defendants/Cross-Complaints
Teza
Products, Inc., Reza Abad and Aiden Bohloul brings a
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories (set one) from Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Hoseini. Moving parties contend the responses are both factually deficient
and/or replete with improper objections. Responding party in opposition
maintains the responses and objections are proper. Moving
parties in reply reiterate the basis of the motion. 
 
Responding party
presents responses consisting of objections on grounds of relevance and
financial privacy, as well as terse factual conclusions. The relevance and
financial privacy objections lack merit.
 
“But
‘[f]or discovery purposes, information is relevant if it “might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
settlement….” [Citation.] Admissibility is not
the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might
reasonably lead to admissible evidence. [Citation.] These rules are applied
liberally in favor of discovery [citation], and (contrary to popular belief),
fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases. [Citation.]’ (Citations.)” (Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653–654.) The subject Judicial Council drafted
interrogatories seek relevant information regarding the information relevant to
the case brought by Plaintiff. Plaintiff cannot pick and chose how much
information will be disclosed based on unsupported parameters.
 
“Privacy
interests generally fall into one of two categories: (1) an interest in making
intimate personal decisions or conducting personal activities without
observation, intrusion, or interference (‘autonomy privacy’); and (2) an
interest in precluding the dissemination or misuse of sensitive and
confidential information (‘informational privacy’).” (Ortiz v. Los Angeles Police Relief Assn. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th
1288, 1301.) A party “alleging an invasion of privacy
in violation of the state constitutional right to privacy must establish each
of the following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by [a party]
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39–40.) “[I]ndividuals
have a legally recognized privacy interest in their personal financial
information.” (International Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers,
Local 21, AFL-CIO v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 319, 330.) The objecting party has the burden
to file evidence of the preliminary facts establishing a privilege exists. (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557;
HLC Properties,
Limited v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 54,
59; Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th at pp.
39-40.)
 
The
argument for privacy relies in part on an assumption of privacy, which
dovetails into the relevance of the sought after information. Relevance constitutes a liberal
standard, with privacy as a form of counterbalance. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th at p. 541.)
 
In
considering the relevance objections, the court finds a lack of support to a
Judicial Council drafted form interrogatories seeking both background and
applicable dispute information for a claim brought by a party. On number 8.4,
Responding Party specifically placed loss of income at issue, thereby supporting
a finding of potential waiver. The court shows no effort by Responding Party to
otherwise avoid placing the information at issue, or other efforts to shield
the information. The objections lack merit. 
 
On the
remaining items, the court finds the responses factually incomplete. Responding
Party needs to serve responses in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.220. Responding Party may not refer to prior discovery. (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783–784 [“Answers must be complete
and responsive. Thus, it is not proper to answer by stating, ‘See my deposition’,
’See my pleading’, or ‘See the financial statement’“].)


The motion
is granted. 
 
Sanctions
are awarded in the amount of $250 joint and several against responding parties
and counsel. Court policy limits sanctions awards to $250 upon the first
motion, with the potential for increasing amounts. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.300, subd. (d).) The court declines to consider the supplemental
declaration request regarding the off-calendar motion to quash, challenges to
credibility, or exceeding the limits of standard court policy simply based on
aggressive litigation stances.
 
Additional
motions to compel further discovery set for November 20, and 22, 2023,
respectively. The instant motion constitutes one in a series of voluminous
motions filed with the court, including the preliminary injunction, demurrer,
and opposed motion to quash (only to be taken off-calendar close to the hearing
date). The court continues to reserve the right to set an OSC re: Referral to a
Discovery Referee at the time of the hearing upon reviewing the motions and in
lieu of actually hearing the motions. The continued
practice of challenging Judicial Council drafted and approved interrogatories,
with minimal support for non-code compliant response requirements, as well as
the continued propounding of broad discovery, with reliance on conclusions,
accusations and constant challenges to credibility represents as part of the
motions to compel responses presents an inordinately growing burden on court
resources for a case without a trial date even set. A discovery referee can
also be vested with authority to impose sanctions in favor of the prevailing
party. 
 
Moving
Parties to provide notice.