  Case Number:  23STCV18046    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TIANJIN RIVER WEST REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
  CO, LTD., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COLE MATTHEW HARRIS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV18046
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR JUDGMENT
  ON THE PLEADINGS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 22, 2024



 
On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff Tianjin River West Real Estate Development Co. Ltd. filed
this action against Defendants Cole Matthew Harris and Ying Chen.  The Complaint alleges (1) fraud, (2) aiding and
abetting fraud, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duty, (5) civil conspiracy, and (6) unjust enrichment.
On
October 18, 2023, Harris (“Defendant”) filed an answer.  On October 6, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for
judgment on the pleadings.
DISCUSSION
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent to a general demurrer.  (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic Indemnity
Co. of Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) 
Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the pleadings challenge the legal
sufficiency of the allegations, not their veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  The Court “must
accept as true all material facts properly pleaded, but does not consider conclusions
of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or facts that
are judicially noticed.”  (Stevenson Real
Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006)
138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-1220.)
A.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Alter Ego.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts supporting an alter ego theory.  (Motion at p. 10.)
“In
California, two conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked.  First, there must be such a unity of interest
and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.  Second, there must be an inequitable result if
the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”  (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.)  Plaintiffs
need not allege specific facts to support an alter ego theory when the defendants
may be assumed to possess superior facts, but they still must allege some facts,
not just conclusions, demonstrating unity of interest.  (See Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del
Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236; First Western Bank & Trust Co. v.
Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910, 915-916.)
The
Complaint alleges that both Defendants “completely controlled, dominated, managed,
and operated” non-party Jialei, and they “acted as an agent, co-conspirator, alter
ego and/or joint venture to each other and acted within the scope of such agency,
alter ego, and/or in furtherance of the conspiracy and/or joint venture with each
other’s full knowledge, consent, permission, authorization, and ratification.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 33-34.)  “Defendants, among other things, (1) controlled
the business and affairs of Jialei; (2) commingled the funds and assets of Jialei
and diverted company funds and assets to their own personal use; (3) disregarded
legal formalities and failed to maintain arm’s length relationship with Jialei;
(4) inadequately capitalized Jialei; and (5) used Jialei as a mere shell, instrumentality,
or conduit for themselves.”  (Complaint ¶
35.)  Specifically, Jialei transferred funds
to Chen’s personal account, and Chen then transferred funds for Defendant’s use.  (Complaint ¶¶ 10, 24, 32.)  Both Defendants “treated Jialei’s bank account
as their personal piggy bank and transferred substantial company funds from Jialei
for their personal use.”  (Complaint ¶ 25.)  Because of this, “there existed and exist a unity
of interest and ownership between Defendants and Jialei such that any separateness
between them has ceased to exist. Defendants completely controlled, dominated, managed,
and operated Jialei.”  (Complaint ¶ 34.)  This is sufficient to allege alter ego at the
pleading stage.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
B.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Fiduciary
Duty (Third and Fourth Causes of Action).
Defendant
argues that there is no allegation showing that he owed Plaintiff fiduciary duties.  (Motion at pp. 14-15.)  However, Plaintiff does allege that “[a]s a co-venturer,
Jialei owed a fiduciary duty to [Plaintiff],” and Defendant is an alter ego of Jialei.  (Complaint ¶¶ 33-35, 49.)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
C.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Fraudulent
Concealment (First Cause of Action).
Defendant
argues that there are no specific facts about his own fraudulent conduct.  (Motion at p. 12.)
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)  “Causes of action for intentional
and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore, each element must
be pleaded with specificity.”  (Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  “‘This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’  [Citation.]”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645 (Lazar).)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant and Chen held themselves out as a married couple who purported
to be successful business owners and investors from the United States and purportedly
had substantial capital they would like to invest in China.  (Complaint ¶¶ 6, 13, 37; Opposition at pp. 3-4.)  They “made representations to [Plaintiff] about
the intended purpose of the loan proceeds under the cooperative agreement, including
that the loan proceeds would be used on the companies’ future joint venture project(s)
and other legitimate business purposes.” 
(Complaint ¶ 37.)  These allegations
lack facts about how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made.
Plaintiff
also alleges fraud based on concealment. 
Fraud based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant must have concealed
or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment
or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310-311.)  Less specificity is required
to plead fraud by concealment.  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law pleading,
one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the facts lie more
in the knowledge of the opposite party.” 
(Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn.,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1384.)
Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants and Jialei intentionally failed to disclose to [Plaintiff]
that Jialei functioned as the Defendants’ personal piggy bank. . . . [and] that
Jialei intended to transfer and did transfer substantial company funds for Defendants’
personal use when those funds could have and should have been used to pay Jialei’s
share of the loan payments under the cooperative loan agreement.”  (Complaint ¶ 38.)  This, along with Defendant’s fiduciary duties
by way of being Jialei’s alleged alter ego, is sufficient to allege fraudulent concealment.
Although
the intentional misrepresentation is not sufficiently pleaded, this cause of action
also has a portion that is sufficiently pleaded.  Accordingly, the motion is denied on the ground.  (See Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452 [“Ordinarily, a general demurrer does not lie as
to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly
pleaded, the demurrer will be overruled.”].)
D.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Aiding
and Abetting Fraud and Civil Conspiracy (Second and Fifth Causes of Action).
“[W]hile
aiding and abetting may not require a defendant to agree to join the wrongful conduct,
it necessarily requires a defendant to reach a conscious decision to participate
in tortious activity for the purpose of assisting another in performing a wrongful
act.  A plaintiff's object in asserting such
a theory is to hold those who aid and abet in the wrongful act responsible as joint
tortfeasors for all damages ensuing from the wrong.”  (Howard v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th
745, 749.)
Defendant
argues that the Complaint contains only conclusory allegations and does not allege
that he had actual knowledge of the fraud and provided assistance.  (Motion at p. 14.)  Defendant focuses on the allegations about Chen’s
conduct and contends that Plaintiff “fails to plead any allegations on how Defendant
Chen’s actions necessarily equate to Harris’ knowledge and action relating to the
alleged fraud.  Plaintiff has thus failed
to sufficiently allege facts supporting Harris’ alleged involvement in the aiding
and abetting of fraud.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants had actual knowledge of the fraud Jialei perpetrated on
[Plaintiff] and provided substantial assistance.”  (Complaint ¶ 46.)  They intentionally made specific misrepresentations
and concealed other information.  (Complaint
¶¶ 37-38.)  Additionally, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant is the alter ego of Chen and Jialei.  (Complaint ¶¶ 33-35.)  That is sufficient to allege Defendant’s knowledge
of and assistance in the fraud.
The
same allegations about Defendant’s knowledge, assistance, and alter ego status are
also sufficient for the claim of civil conspiracy.  “Conspiracy is not a separate tort, but a form
of vicarious liability by which one defendant can be held liable for the acts of
another.  [Citations.]  To establish conspiracy, a plaintiff must allege
that the defendant had knowledge of and agreed to both the objective and the course
of action that resulted in the injury, that there was a wrongful act committed pursuant
to that agreement, and that there was resulting damage.  [Citation.]” 
(IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 652.)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
E.        Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges Unjust
Enrichment (Sixth Cause of Action).
Defendant
contends that the Complaint “only alleges that Defendant Chen received funds allegedly
belonging to [Plaintiff].  The Complaint fails
to establish, beyond conclusory statements, that Harris received or benefitted from
any of the purported fraudulently transferred funds.  Moreover, [Plaintiff] fails to allege Harris had
knowledge of the so-called fraudulent transfers.”  (Motion at p. 17.)
For
the same reason as with the second and fifth causes of action, Plaintiff again sufficiently
alleges Defendant’s knowledge of and involvement in the conduct leading to the allegedly
unjust retention of Plaintiff’s funds.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
F.         This Action is Not Facially Barred By
the Statute of Limitations.
Defendant
argues that all causes of action are barred by the three-year statute of limitations
for causes of action based in fraud.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 338.)  Plaintiff alleges
delayed discovery of the bases for the claims. 
(See Complaint ¶¶ 10, 24.)
A
fraud claim begins to accrue when the aggrieved party discovers the facts constituting
the fraud or could have discovered the fraud through the exercise of reasonable
diligence.  (San Francisco Unified School
Dist. v. W.R. Grace & Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1327.)  “An important exception to the general rule of
accrual is the ‘discovery rule,’ which postpones accrual of a cause of action until
the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.  [Citation.]” 
(Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807.)  “A plaintiff has reason to discover a cause of
action when he or she ‘has reason at least to suspect a factual basis for its elements.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  “[I]f a plaintiff's
reasonable and diligent investigation discloses only one kind of wrongdoing when
the injury was actually caused by tortious conduct of a wholly different sort, the
discovery rule postpones accrual of the statute of limitations on the newly discovered
claim.”  (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 813.)
Plaintiff
previously sued Jialei for breach of a cooperative agreement and for recovery of
loan payments in 2016, 2019, and 2020, and received judgments in its favor.  (Complaint ¶¶ 20-23.)  In connection with the execution of the 2019 judgment,
Plaintiff applied for an investigation order, similar to a subpoena, from the court
in 2020 to examine Jialei’s assets.  (Complaint
¶ 24.)  Plaintiff then discovered that Jialei
had transferred funds to Chen’s personal account between March 2014 and May 2016,
instead of using the money for Plaintiff’s and Jialei’s joint venture projects or
any other legitimate business purposes.  (Complaint
¶ 24.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff “had reason to suspect fraud when Jialei stopped paying its
portion of the loan in 2016, forcing [Plaintiff] to commence litigation in China.”  (Motion at pp. 12-13.)  But Plaintiff’s claims here are based on different
torts that were not discovered until Plaintiff learned about the allegedly fraudulent
transfers and concealment.  At this stage,
Plaintiff sufficiently pleads delayed discovery of Defendant’s conduct.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 22nd day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 