  Case Number:  23STCP02966    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  73 06/05/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SEAVEY, et al. v. SIGNATURE
ENTERTAINMENT, LLC. et al. (23STCP02966)
 
Counsel for Appellants/Petitioners/opposing
party:  Alan Gutman (Gutman Law), Howard
King (King, Holmes, Paterno & Soriano, LLP)
Counsel for Appellees/Respondents/moving
party:  David Stern, Michael Levin (Baker
& Hostetler LLP)
 
MOTION TO DISMISS OR STAY (filed on 04/08/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Respondent’s Motion
to Dismiss, or in the alternative, to Stay is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
This is an action to appeal a Labor Commissioner
Award brought by Petitioners Daniel Seavey, Jonah Marais, Corbyn Besson, Jack
Avery and Zach Herron (collectively “Petitioners”) against Respondents
Signature Entertainment LLC (“Signature”), David Loeffler and Steve Miller. 
According to the operative petition,
filed August 15, 2023, Petitioners are songwriters,
musicians, and recording and performing artists collectively known as the
musical band “Why Don’t We.” The petition states that in or about September
2016, Petitioners entered into agreements with Signature under which Signature
would retain broad authority over the band, including the right to direct and
control all of the band’s recordings, personal appearances, and live
performances. Signature is based out of Orange County, Florida and the each of
the agreements contained a Florida choice of law provision and a forum
selection provision designating Orange County, Florida, as the exclusive forum
for actions related to the Agreements. None of the Petitioners lived in
California when they entered into the Agreements with Signature.
On
or about August 17, 2021, Signature sued Petitioners for breach of the
Agreements in the County of Orange, Florida. 
Petitioners
filed the instant Petition to Determine Controversy seeking, an order
determining that Signature violated the California Talent Agencies Act (TAA),
and the Agreements between Signature and Petitioners are void. 
On
August 11, 2023, the Labor Commissioner found the choice of law and forum
selection provisions in the Agreements controlled and dismissed the action
for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. 
On April 8, 2024, Respondents filed
the instant Motion
to Dismiss or Stay, arguing:
·      
Respondents
move to dismiss Petitioners’ Appeal on the grounds that the Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles is an inconvenient forum, and pursuant to the
doctrine of forum non conveniens, this action may be more appropriately and
justly tried in an existing lawsuit pending in the Circuit Court of Orange
County in Orlando, Florida, pursuant to the parties’ agreement with a specific,
mandatory forum selection clause establishing the courts in Orange County,
Florida as the only forum for resolving any disputes between the parties. Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §§410.30(a), 418.10.
 
Petitioners
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The
Florida forum selection and choice of law provision is unenforceable because it
violates California public policy
o  
It
would circumvent the protections of the California Talent Agencies Act
o  
Respondents
have the burden to show Petitioner’s unwaivable rights would not be impaired
o  
Respondents
do not and cannot meet their burden because dismissing this trial de novo, in
favor of the Florida Action, would strip Petitioners’ unwaivable rights under
California law
o  
There
is no basis to stay this trial de novo pending resolution of the Florida Action
·      
The
forum selection provision either does not apply or is ambiguous
 
Respondents
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Petitioners
were not California residents when they entered into the Agreement
·      
Because
Respondents operate out of Florida, none of their conduct falls within the
territorial limits of California. As such, California law—including the Talent
Agencies Act—does not apply. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion to Dismiss
 
“When a court upon motion
of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice
an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay
or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) With regard to a contract dispute in which
the parties’ agreement contains a forum selection clause, the threshold issue
in a forum non conveniens motion is “whether the forum selection clause is
mandatory or permissive.” (Animal Film, LLC v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc.¿(2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471.)  A mandatory clause is ordinarily given effect
without any analysis of convenience—the only question is whether enforcement is
unreasonable. (Id.)  
 
The responding party on a
motion to enforce a mandatory forum selection clause has the burden to
establish unreasonability by showing the selected forum would be. (Intershop
Communications AG v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 191, 199; Cal-State
Business Products & Services, Inc. v. Ricoh (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1666,
1679) (quoting Smith, Valentino & Smith, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles (1976) 17 Cal.3d 491, 494.) "Neither inconvenience nor
the additional expense of litigation in the selected forum is a factor to be
considered. However, a forum selection clause will not be enforced if to do so
would bring about a result contrary to the public policy of this state." (Intershop,
supra, p. 199-200.) 
 
B.     Discussion
Respondents
move to dismiss Petitioners’ Appeal on the grounds that this Court is an
inconvenient forum, and this action may be more appropriately and justly tried
in an existing lawsuit pending in the Circuit Court of Orange County in
Orlando, Florida, pursuant to the parties’ 
agreement with a specific, mandatory forum selection clause establishing
the courts in Orange County, Florida as the only forum for resolving any
disputes between the parties. 
a.     Whether the
Florida forum selection and choice of law provision is unenforceable because it
violates California public policy
 
Petitioners
argue the
Court should refuse to defer to the selected forum because Petitioners’ claims
are based on unwaivable rights created by California statutes. Petitioners’
claims are based on the Talent Agency Act. 
 
The purpose of the TAA is “remedial; its purpose is to
protect artists seeking professional employment from the abuses of talent
agencies.”¿ (Styne v. Stevens (2001) 26 Cal.4th 42, 50.) Under the TAA,
“no person shall engage in or carry on the occupation of a talent agency
without first procuring a license therefor from the Labor Commissioner.”¿ (Lab.
Code, § 1700.5.)¿ A “talent agency” means “a person or corporation who engages
in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure
employment or engagements for an artist….”¿ (Lab. Code, § 1700.4, subd. (a).) According
to the TAA, the parties can “appeal within 10 days after [the commissioner’s]
determination, to the superior court where the [dispute] shall be heard de
novo.”¿ (Lab. Code, § 1700.4, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
The TAA
states: “In cases of controversy arising under this chapter,” for example, a
person engaged in the occupation of a talent agency without a license, “the
parties involved shall refer the matters in dispute to the Labor
Commissioner ….”¿ (Lab. Code, § 1700.4, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)¿ According
to the California Supreme Court, “this language, using the mandatory ‘shall,’
grants ‘original and exclusive jurisdiction over issues arising under the Act’
to the Labor Commissioner. [Citations.]”¿ (Villanueva v. Fidelity National
Title Co. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 104, 127.)¿California law provides the California Labor Commissioner with exclusive
jurisdiction to decide the first instance issues arising under the Talent
Agencies Act and requires any defense first be heard by the Labor Commissioner
before the parties can proceed to this Court. (Cal. Labor Code § 1700.44(a); Styne
v. Stevens, (2001) 26 Cal.4th 42.)
 
It is clear that the policy behind the
Talent Agencies Act is to protect artists, and that this is an important
California state interest. (Marathon Entertainment, Inc. v. Blasi (2008)
42 Cal.4th 974, 984.) Courts have established that the TAA’s protections are
unwaivable and cannot be circumvented by contract. (See, Buchwald, 254
Cal. App. 2d at 355, 357 (holding that “[c]learly the Act may not be
circumvented by allowing language of the written contract to control” and also
that California “jurisdiction may not be waived by a party”; Yoo v. Robi,
126 Cal.App.4th 1089, 1103-04 (2005) (holding that TAA relief “applies even if,
as in the present case, the contract . . . contains an affirmative statement
the party seeking compensation has not agreed to obtain employment for the
artist”). While Respondent’s argue that Yoo is inapposite here because
it does not specifically address whether parties can contract for a forum
selection provision, Yoo held that the TAA's protections are
legislatively enacted in order to protect California residents and, therefore,
cannot be waived by contract. (Yoo, 126 Cal. App. 4th at 1103.)
Therefore, the burden is on Respondent to show that litigating
this action in Florida will not diminish in any way the substantive rights
afforded to Petitioners under the TAA. 
 
b.     Respondent’s
Burden
 
California courts will
refuse to defer to the selected forum if to do so would substantially diminish
the rights of California residents in a way that violates our state's public
policy." (America Online, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1, 12; see Intershop Communications AG v.
Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 191, 200, [127 Cal.Rptr.2d 847] (Intershop
Communications) ["a forum selection clause will not be enforced if to
do so would bring about a result contrary to the public policy of this
state"]; CQL Products, supra, 39 Cal.App.4th at p. 1354, 46
Cal.Rptr.2d 412; Hall v. Superior Court (1983) 150 Cal.App.3d
411, 416-418, [197 Cal.Rptr. 757] (Hall ).)" (Verdugo v.
Alliantgroup (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147.
 
"The party opposing
enforcement of a forum selection clause ordinarily "bears the
'substantial' burden of proving why it should not be enforced.' (Global
Packaging, Inc. v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1623, 1633, [127 Cal.Rptr.3d 813], original italics; Intershop Communications,
supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at p. 198, 127 Cal.Rptr.2d 847.) That burden,
however, is reversed when the claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights
created by California statutes. In that situation, the party seeking to enforce
the forum selection clause bears the burden to show litigating the claims in
the contractually-designated forum "will not diminish in any way the
substantive rights afforded. . . under California law." (Wimsatt v.
Beverly Hills Weight etc. Internat., Inc. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1511,
1520-1524, [38 Cal.Rptr.2d 612] (Wimsatt ); see America Online,
supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at pp. 10-11, 108 Cal.Rptr.2d 699 [party seeking
enforcement must "prove that enforcement of the forum selection clause
would not result in a significant diminution of rights"].)" (Verdugo,
supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at pp. 147-148; see G Companies Management,
LLC v. LREP Arizona, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 342, 350 ["That
burden, however, is reversed when the claims at issue are based on unwaivable
rights created by California statutes. In that situation, the party seeking to
enforce the forum selection clause bears the burden to show litigating the
claims in the contractually designated forum 'will not diminish in any way the
substantive rights afforded... under California law.' "].) 
In G
Companies Management, LLC v. LREP Arizona, LLC, supra, 88
Cal.App.5th 342, the court held: "In Hall v. Superior Court (1983)
150 Cal.App.3d 411, 197 Cal.Rptr. 757 (Hall), this court refused to
enforce a forum selection clause in a case in which two California investors
had exchanged their interests in an oil and gas limited partnership in return
for stock in one of their co-investors, a Utah corporation. As in this case,
the parties in Hall agreed to both forum selection and choice of law
provisions, which identified Nevada as the selected forum and chose its laws to
govern the transaction. Although the trial court enforced the forum selection
clause, this court reversed. [¶] We explained in Hall that "[w]hile
'California does not have any public policy against a choice of law provision,
where it is otherwise appropriate' [citation] . . . [citation], 'an agreement
designating [a 
foreign] law
will not be given effect if it would violate a strong California public policy.
[or] "result in an evasion of... a statute of the forum protecting its
citizens.”›” "'" (Hall, supra, 150 Cal.App.3d at pp.
416-417, 197 Cal.Rptr. 757.) We then reasoned that if the pending litigation
were transferred to Nevada where Nevada law would be applied, the investors
would lose the benefit of California's Corporate Securities Law of 1968 (Corp.
Code, § 25000 et seq.), which would otherwise govern the exchange. The
investors would thus be denied California's unwaivable protections against
fraud and deception in securities matters. (Hall, supra, 150 Cal.App.3d
at p. 417, 197 Cal.Rptr. 757.) Consequently, the trial court erred by enforcing
the provision." (88 Cal.App.5th at p. 351.) 
 
Here, Respondents have not
carried their burden. Respondents fail to show the remedies Florida law
provides are “adequate,” let alone that enforcing the forum selection clause
would not diminish Petitioners’ rights. Respondents
fail to cite any Florida authority granting Petitioners’ rights
comparable to the rights the TAA establishes. (See Verdugo v. Alliantgroup,
L.P., supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 157 ["Simply stated, a comparison
is necessary to determine whether enforcing a forum selection and choice-of-law
clause would violate California's public policy embodied in its governing
statutes. As explained above, a defendant seeking to enforce a mandatory forum
selection clause bears the burden to show enforcement will not in any way
diminish the plaintiff's unwaivable statutory rights. By definition, this
showing requires the defendant to compare the plaintiff's rights if the clause
is not enforced and the plaintiff's rights if the clause is enforced. Indeed, a
defendant can meet its burden only by showing the foreign forum provides the
same or greater rights than California, or the foreign forum will apply
California law on the claims at issue."].) 
 
Instead, Respondents
assert that California law should not apply because Petitioners were not
California residents at the time they entered into the Agreement and because Respondents
operate out of Florida. However, a large part of the conduct Petitioners
identified as violative of the Talent Agencies Act occurred while Petitioners
were residents of California. (Levin Decl., Ex. E.) Petitioners assert that
Respondents unlawfully procured performances for Petitioners without a licensed
talent agent in violation of the TAA from December 2, 2016 to August 22, 2021. (Levin
Decl., Ex. E.) All of the Petitioners have continuously resided in California
since 2018, with the exception of Besson, who has continuously resided in
California since 2019. (King Decl., Ex D, Para 2.) Petitioners assert Respondents
procured 69 performances for Petitioners without a licensed talent agent from 2016
to 2017, and 135 performances for Petitioners without a licensed talent agent from
2018 to 2021. (Levin Decl., Ex. E.) Since California has an important state
interest in protecting its residents and Petitioners were residents of
California when the majority of the alleged violations occurred, Respondents
have not met their burden of showing enforcement of the forum selection clause
is not contrary to public policy and that it would not diminish Petitioners’
rights.
 
Thus, Respondents’ Motion
to Dismiss is denied. 
 
c.     
Request
to Stay
Respondents argue that in the alternative, this action should be
stayed pending resolution of the Florida Action. Respondents contend that a
judgment in the Florida Action will fully vindicate any interest that California
might have in this dispute.
However, the Court denies Respondents’ request to stay because
Respondents failed to establish that the
Florida forum selection and choice of law provision is enforceable because it
violates California public policy. (See Verdugo, 237 Cal. App. 4th at
162.) Since the Florida Action does not have
jurisdiction to adjudicate the TAA issues, the Court does not find this as
grounds to stay this matter pending the resolution of the Florida Action. 
 
Respondents’ request to stay this action is denied. 
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly,
Respondent’s Motion to Dismiss, or in the alternative, Motion to Stay is DENIED.