 Case Number:  24STCV17942    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  85 
Alston
& Bird LLP v. 5860 West Jefferson I, LLC, 5860 West Jefferson LLC, and
Samitaur Constructs, 24STCV17942

Tentative decision on application
for right to attach order: denied




 
 



Plaintiff Alston & Bird LLP (“Alston”) applies for a right
to attach order against Defendant 5860 West Jefferson I, LLC (“5860 W.
Jefferson I”).
The court has read and considered the moving papers and
opposition (no reply was filed) and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Complaint
Plaintiff Alston filed this lawsuit against Defendants 5860
W. Jefferson I, 5860 West Jefferson LLC (“5860 W. Jefferson”), and Samitaur
Constructs (“Samitaur”) on July 18, 2024. 
The operative pleading is the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed on July
30, 2024, against Defendants alleging claims for breach of implied contract,
unjust enrichment, and account stated. The FAC, alleges in pertinent part as
follows.  
In or around August 2018, certain disputes arose between
Nike USA, Inc. (“Nike”), and Defendants pertaining to a lease between Nike and
Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson I, (the “Nike Lease”).  FAC ¶12.
5860 W. Jefferson was the original Lessor under the Nike Lease.  FAC, ¶12.
5860 W. Jefferson I succeeded to the interests of 5860 W. Jefferson as
Lessor.  FAC, ¶12.  As of August 2018, no
litigation had yet been filed between Defendants and Nike.  FAC, ¶12.
 
As the agent of 5860 W. Jefferson I and 5860 W. Jefferson,
Samitaur engaged Plaintiff Alston to provide legal assistance to Defendants.  FAC, ¶12.
After efforts to mediate the dispute with Nike were unsuccessful, on September
18, 2018, Nike filed a lawsuit against Defendants (the “Nike Lease
Litigation”).  FAC, ¶13.  Plaintiff
agreed to represent Defendants in the Nike Lease Litigation subject to
Defendants’ respective duties to be honest with Plaintiff and to pay promptly
Plaintiff’s invoices for fees and costs.  FAC, ¶15. 
Based upon that agreement, for more than five years
Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson I, by and through Samitaur as an agent, paid
Plaintiff to represent Defendants.  FAC, ¶16.  Plaintiff
believes that all attorneys’ fees and costs previously paid to Plaintiff in
connection with the Nike Lease Litigation
were paid by Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson I through its agent Samitaur.  FAC, ¶16.  Additionally, Plaintiff is
informed and believes that the accounting and bank account records of Defendant
5860 W. Jefferson I will reflect that it regularly transferred funds to
Samitaur that it used to pay the fees and costs incurred in the Nike Lease
Litigation.  FAC, ¶16. 
As such, Defendants
and Plaintiff had an implied agreement that Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson I would
pay Plaintiff for the services and costs incurred in connection with the Nike
Lease Litigation.  FAC, ¶16.
In the Nike Lease Litigation, Nike asserted cross-claims and
supplemental claims against Defendants, and Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson I
asserted certain cross-claims against Nike.  FAC, ¶19.
As a result of its complexity, the Nike Lease Litigation was hotly contested
over a period of almost five years.  FAC,
¶20.  Because of Plaintiff’s work litigating this
case, the trial court awarded Nike no relief in the Nike Lease Litigation.  FAC, ¶29. 
Throughout the Nike Lease Litigation, Plaintiff sent monthly
bills to Defendants for legal services and costs.  FAC, ¶31.
 From the inception of the
representation until July 9, 2024, Defendants never complained about the
amounts of the bills.  FAC, ¶31. To the contrary, Defendants and
their respective agents made numerous representations that they were “working”
to get the bills paid and that the bills would be paid when a third-party
investor made a major investment in Defendants.  FAC, ¶31.
 It was not until July 9, 2024, that
Defendants complained about the amount of the bills. FAC, ¶31. This complaint came after Plaintiff
stated that they intended to file this action and to seek a writ of attachment.
 FAC, ¶31.  
Plaintiff brings
this action in order to avail itself of its right to seek a writ of attachment,
and to thereby prevent the transfer of the subject properties until the debt
claimed by Plaintiff has been resolved.  FAC,
¶34. 
 
2.  Course of
Proceedings 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Complaint. 
On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the FAC.
On July 30, 2024, the court denied Plaintiff Alston’s ex
parte application for right to attach orders against all three Defendants as
procedurally defective.
On August 1, 2024, Alston filed renewed ex parte
applications against each Defendant. The hearing was continued to August 6 to
permit Defendants to adequately respond. 
On that date, the court granted the ex parte application against
Samitaur, but denied the applications against 5860 W. Jefferson I and 5860 W.
Jefferson. The court invited Alston to provide authority for its contention
that, when an represents multiple affiliated clients and has a written
agreement with only one to pay the attorneys' fees for all, an implied
agreement arises for the other entities to pay those fees as well.  Alston did not do so. 
 
B. Applicable Law
1. Attachment
Attachment is a
prejudgment remedy providing for the seizure of one or more of the defendant’s
assets to aid in the collection of a money demand pending the outcome of the
trial of the action.  See Whitehouse
v. Six Corporation, (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 527, 533.  In 1972, and in a 1977 comprehensive
revision, the Legislature enacted attachment legislation (CCP §481.010 et seq.)
that meets the due process requirements set forth in Randone v. Appellate
Department, (1971) 5 Cal.3d 536.  See
Western Steel & Ship Repair v. RMI, (12986) 176 Cal.App.3d 1108,
1115.  As the attachment statutes are
purely the creation of the Legislature, they are strictly construed.  Vershbow v. Reiner, (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 879, 882.
A writ of attachment
may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which
is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the
claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred
dollars ($500).  CCP §483.010(a).  A claim is “readily ascertainable” where the
amount due may be clearly ascertained from the contract and calculated by
evidence; the fact that damages are unliquidated is not determinative.  CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v.
Super DVD, Inc., (“CIT”) (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 537, 540-41
(attachment appropriate for claim based on rent calculation for lease of
commercial equipment).
All property within
California of a corporation, association, or partnership is subject to
attachment if there is a method of levy for the property.  CCP §487.010(a), (b).  While a trustee is a natural person, a trust
is not.  Therefore, a trust’s property is
subject to attachment on the same basis as a corporation or partnership.  Kadison, Pfaelzer, Woodard, Quinn &
Rossi v. Wilson, supra, 197 Cal.App.3d at 4.
The plaintiff may
apply for a right to attach order by noticing a hearing for the order and
serving the defendant with summons and complaint, notice of the application,
and supporting papers any time after filing the complaint.  CCP §484.010. 
Notice of the application must be given pursuant to CCP section 1005,
sixteen court days before the hearing.  See
ibid.
The notice of the
application and the application may be made on Judicial Council forms (Optional
Forms AT-105, 115).  The application must
be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented
would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is
based.  CCP §484.030.  
Where the defendant
is a corporation, a general reference to “all corporate property which is
subject to attachment pursuant to subdivision (a) of Code of Civil Procedure
Section 487.010” is sufficient.  CCP
§484.020(e).  Where the defendant is a
partnership or other unincorporated association, a reference to “all property
of the partnership or other unincorporated association which is subject to
attachment pursuant to subdivision (b) of Code of Civil Procedure Section 487.010”
is sufficient.  CCP §484.020(e).  A specific description of property is not
required for corporations and partnerships as they generally have no exempt
property.  Bank of America v. Salinas
Nissan, Inc., (“Bank of America”) (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 260, 268.
A defendant who
opposes issuance of the order must file and serve a notice of opposition and
supporting affidavit as required by CCP section 484.060 not later than five
court days prior to the date set for hearing. 
CCP §484.050(e).  The notice of
opposition may be made on a Judicial Council form (Optional Form AT-155).  
The plaintiff may
file and serve a reply two court days prior to the date set for the
hearing.  CCP §484.060(c). 
At the hearing, the
court determines whether the plaintiff should receive a right to attach order
and whether any property which the plaintiff seeks to attach is exempt from
attachment.  The defendant may appear the
hearing.  CCP §484.050(h).  The court generally will evaluate the
attachment application based solely on the pleadings and supporting affidavits
without taking additional evidence.  Bank
of America, supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at 273.  A verified complaint may be used in lieu of
or in addition to an affidavit if it states evidentiary facts.  CCP §482.040. 
The plaintiff has the burden of proof, and the court is not required to
accept as true any affidavit even if it is undisputed.  See Bank of America, supra, at
271, 273.
The court may issue
a right to attach order (Optional Form AT-120) if the plaintiff shows all of
the following: (1) the claim on which the attachment is based is one on which
an attachment may be issued (CCP §484.090(a)(1)); (2) the plaintiff has established
the probable validity of the claim (CCP §484.090(a)(2)); (3) attachment is
sought for no purpose other than the recovery on the subject claim (CCP
§484.090(a)(3); and (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater
than zero (CCP §484.090(a)(4)). 
A claim has
“probable validity” where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
recover on that claim.  CCP §481.190.  In determining this issue, the court must
consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective parties.  Kemp Bros. Construction, Inc. v. Titan
Electric Corp., (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1484.  The court does not determine whether the
claim is actually valid; that determination will be made at trial and is not
affected by the decision on the application for the order.  CCP §484.050(b).
Except in unlawful
detainer actions, the amount to be secured by the attachment is the sum of (1)
the amount of the defendant’s indebtedness claimed by the plaintiff, and (2)
any additional amount included by the court for estimate of costs and any allowable
attorneys’ fees under CCP section 482.110. 
CCP §483.015(a); Goldstein v. Barak Construction, (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 845, 852.  This amount must
be reduced by the sum of (1) the amount of indebtedness that the defendant has
in a money judgment against plaintiff, (2) the amount claimed in a
cross-complaint or affirmative defense and shown would be subject to attachment
against the plaintiff, and (3) the value of any security interest held by the
plaintiff in the defendant’s property, together with the amount by which the
acts of the plaintiff (or a prior holder of the security interest) have
decreased that security interest’s value. 
CCP §483.015(b); see also CCP §483.010(b) (“an attachment may not be
issued on a claim which is secured by any interest in real property arising
from agreement, statute, or other rule of law…However, an attachment may be
issued where the claim was originally so secured but, without any act of the
plaintiff or the person to whom the security was given, the security has become
valueless or has decreased in value to less than the amount then owing on the
claim).  A defendant claiming that the
amount to be secured should be reduced because of a cross-claim or affirmative
defense must make a prima facie showing that the claim would result in an
attachment against the plaintiff.
Before the issuance
of a writ of attachment, the plaintiff is required to file an undertaking to
pay the defendant any amount the defendant may recover for any wrongful
attachment by the plaintiff in the action. 
CCP §489.210.  The undertaking
ordinarily is $10,000. CCP §489.220.  If
the defendant objects, the court may increase the amount of undertaking to the
amount determined as the probable recovery for wrongful attachment.  CCP §489.220. 
The court also has inherent authority to increase the amount of the
undertaking sua sponte.  North
Hollywood Marble Co. v. Superior Court, (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 683, 691.
 
C. Sealing 
The California Supreme Court has held that a court cannot
seal a record without first finding an "overriding interest" in
support of sealing.  NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court, (“NBC Subsidiary”) (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1217-18.  Under appropriate
circumstances, such interests may include protection of minor victims of sex
crimes from further trauma and embarrassment; privacy interests of a
prospective juror during individual voir dire; protection of witnesses from
embarrassment or intimidation so extreme that it would traumatize them or
render them unable to testify; of trade secrets, protection of information
within the attorney-client privilege, and enforcement of binding contractual
obligations not to disclose; safeguarding national security, ensuring the
anonymity of juvenile offenders in juvenile court; and ensuring the fair
administration of justice, and preservation of confidential investigative
information.  Id. at 1222, n. 46.
CRC 2.550 and 2.551 are derived from NBC Subsidiary
and set forth the standards and procedures for sealing court records. Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open. CRC
2.550(c).  The Advisory Committee Comment
to CRC 2.550 provides that the rules recognize the First Amendment right of
access to documents used at trial or as a basis of adjudication, but do not
apply to records that courts must keep confidential by law.
            A
court may order records sealed only if it expressly finds all of the following:
(1) there exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public
access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and  (5) no less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.  CRC
2.550(d).
The leading case for sealing orders is Universal City
Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court, (“Universal City”) (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1273.  To determine whether
records should be sealed, the court must hold a hearing and expressly find that
(i) there exists an overriding interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (ii)
there is a substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent
closure and/or sealing; (iii) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly
tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (iv) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest.  Id. at 1279.
            CRC
2.551(b)(3) provides the procedure for a party not intending to file a motion
or application to seal records produced in discovery that are subject to a
confidentiality agreement or protective order. 
The party must: (1) lodge the unredacted record subject to
confidentiality agreement or protective order, (2) file copies of the documents
that are redacted so that they do not disclose the confidential or protected
information, and (3) give written notice to the party that produced the records
that the lodged records will be placed in the public court file unless that
party files a timely motion to seal.  CRC
2.551(b)(3)(A).
            If
the party that produced the documents and was served with this notice fails to
file an application or motion to seal within ten days or obtain a court
ordered-extension, the clerk must promptly transfer all the conditionally
sealed documents to the public file.  If
the party files a timely motion or application to seal, the documents shall
remain conditionally sealed until the court rules on it.  CRC 2.551(b)(3)(B).
            Plaintiff
Alston has conditionally sealed certain filed documents.  On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff served a Notice
of Conditional Lodging Under Seal.  More
than ten days have passed, and Defendants have not file an application or
motion to seal or obtained a court ordered-extension.  Therefore, the clerk is directed to promptly
transfer all the conditionally sealed documents to the public file.  
 
D. Statement of Facts
1. Alston’s
Evidence 
a. Background
In July of 2018,
certain disputes arose between Nike and Defendants pertaining to the Nike Lease
between Nike and Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson.  Evans Decl., ¶7.  At that time, Nike asserted that the building
constructed and leased to it by Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson was rife with
construction defects, leaked water incessantly, and had mold on the interior of
the property purportedly threatening the health of Nike employees.  Evans Decl., ¶7.  
5860 W. Jefferson
was the original Lessor under the Nike Lease. 
However, the construction lender to 5860 W. Jefferson required the
formation of a new entity to hold title to that property.  Evans Decl., ¶7. Thus, 5860 W. Jefferson I
succeeded to the interests of 5860 W. Jefferson as Lessor.  Evans Decl., ¶7.  As of August of 2018, no litigation had yet
been filed between Defendants and Nike.  Evans
Decl., ¶7. 
Peter Brown of
Samitaur requested Plaintiff Alston’s advice and counsel.  Evans Decl., ¶8.  On September 6, 2018, Alston entered into an
initial engagement letter agreement whereby it agreed to provide Samitaur with
the requested advice and counsel.  Evans Decl.,
¶8.  The written fee agreement limited Alston’s
services “to providing [Samitaur] with advice and counsel with regard to the
tenancy of Nike, Inc…”  Evans Decl., ¶8.  The engagement agreement with Samitaur was silent
as to the representation of Defendants 5860 W. Jefferson I and 5860 W.
Jefferson, and who would be responsible for the payment of their fees.  Evans Decl., ¶8.
 
b. The Nike Lease
Litigation
In or around
September of 2018, Nike suggested that the parties mediate and Defendants
agreed to do so.  Evans Decl., ¶8.  After initial efforts to mediate the dispute
with Nike were unsuccessful, on September 18, 2018, Nike filed the Nike Lease
Litigation against Defendants. Evans Decl., ¶8. 
Shortly after Nike
served Defendants with the Nike lawsuit, Laurie Smith, as owner and principal
of each of the Defendants, requested that Alston represent Defendants in the
Nike Lease Litigation.  Evans Decl., ¶9.  Implied in that request was the promise of
each of those entities to pay for the services and costs provided by Alston in
defending the Nike Lease Litigation.  Evans
Decl., ¶9.  Although sued by Nike,
Samitaur was not a party to the Nike Lease.  Evans Decl., ¶9.  The bulk of Nike’s claims were aimed at 5860 W.
Jefferson I as the lessor of the property.  Evans Decl., ¶9. 
Alston agreed to
represent Defendants in the Nike Lease Litigation subject to the implied
promise of Defendants to be honest with the firm and to pay promptly its
invoices for fees and costs.  Evans Decl.,
¶10.  For more than four years after Nike
filed the Nike Lease Litigation, Defendants paid Plaintiff’s invoices.  Evans Decl., ¶10.  Those payments are evidence of an implied
agreement between Defendants and Alston for its services rendered.  Evans Decl., ¶11. 
Nike asserted cross-claims
and supplemental claims against Defendants 5860 W. Jefferson I and Samitaur in
the Nike Lease Litigation.  Evans Decl., ¶13.
 At the request of 5860 W. Jefferson I,
Plaintiff prepared certain cross-actions against Nike for breach of and arising
out of the Nike lease.  Evans Decl., ¶13.
 
The Nike Lease
Litigation was hotly contested over a period of more than five years.  Evans Decl., ¶14.  In preparing the case for trial, the parties
demanded from one another dozens of categories of documents and exchanged
hundreds of thousands of pages of documents.  Evans Decl., ¶15.  The parties also subpoenaed documents from
third parties which resulted in the production of tens of thousands of
additional documents.  Evans Decl., ¶15.  The parties took more than 32 depositions.  Evans Decl., ¶16. 
During the
litigation, Nike obtained a summary adjudication order requiring Defendants to
return to Nike more than $6.6 million paid by Nike to 5860 W. Jefferson I for
tenant improvements constructed by Samitaur.  Evans Decl., ¶17.  Nike asserted, and the trial court agreed,
that each of the Defendants had unlawfully collected these monies as Samitaur
was not licensed as a contractor.  Evans Decl.,
¶17. 
Nike and Defendants
participated in three private mediations, and four separate days of mandatory
settlement conferences required by the court.  Evans Decl., ¶19. Despite those efforts, the
parties were unable to resolve the matter.  Evans Decl., ¶19. 
The trial was
originally set for January 5, 2021. Evans Decl., ¶20.  The trial date was continued numerous times.  Evans Decl., ¶20.  Due to the multiple continuances, Alston was required
to prepare several times for a jury trial.  Evans Decl., ¶22.  Eventually, Nike and Defendants waived their
respective rights to a jury trial and to try the case to the court.  Evans Decl., ¶22.  The trial commenced on February 8, 2024, and
concluded on March 12, 2024.  Evans Decl.,
¶23.  Nike sought more than $30,000,000
against Defendants in addition to the $6.6 million interim award made on
summary adjudication.  Evans Decl., ¶23.  Due to Alston’s work, the court awarded Nike
no damages on its breach of lease and breach of warranty claims.  Evans Decl., ¶24. 
Nike brought a
motion for new trial to overturn the result.  Evans Decl., ¶25.  Even though Alston had not been paid for its bills
sent between October 2023 and April 2024, it opposed the motion for new trial
which was denied by the trial court.  Evans
Decl., ¶25.  
 
c. Hackman Capital
Group
Hackman Capital
Group (“Hackman Group”) is a privately held real estate investment, operating
and development company based in Los Angeles.  Evans Decl., ¶34.  In connection with Alston’s efforts to collect
the amounts owed to it, it spoke and exchanged numerous emails with Myles Blau,
Esq. (“Blau”), General Counsel of investor Hackman Group.  Evans Decl., ¶34.  Blau advised that Hackman Group anticipated
making a sizeable investment in Defendants and their respective affiliates, and
asked Alston to desist in its efforts to collect unpaid fees and costs from
Defendants.  Evans Decl., ¶34.  Blau advised Alston that he had reviewed the
financial statements of Defendants and its principal/owner, Laurie Smith, and that
they had no money.  Evans Decl., ¶34.  Blau informed Alston that, without an
investment from Hackman Group, Defendants will file bankruptcy.  Evans Decl., ¶35.  He further advised that Defendants have
negotiated to take a $100 million investment from Hackman Group.  Evans Decl., ¶35.  If the transaction were to close, Hackman
Group would take operational control over all of Defendants and their
affiliates and their respective assets.  Evans
Decl., ¶35. 
Following this
exchange, Alston had numerous communications with Blau concerning the unpaid
fees and costs.  Evans Decl., ¶37.  Even though the Hackman Group investment had
not closed, Blau was brokering a resolution of the unpaid fees and costs and
described himself and Hackman Group as Defendants’ “white knight.”  Evans Decl., ¶37.  
At the end of June
2024, Blau requested copies of Plaintiff’s unpaid invoices, suggesting that
Hackman Group would pay them if approved. Evans Decl., ¶38. To Alston’s knowledge,
Blau never reviewed the bills.  Evans Decl.,
¶38.  Hackman Group has never negotiated
the payment of Alston’s bills or made any offer on the amounts claimed.  Evans Decl., ¶39.
 
d. Attachment and Arbitration 
For more than four
years, Alston sent Defendants monthly invoices for legal services and costs
incurred.  Evans Decl., ¶26.  Defendants never complained about the amounts
or form of the invoices.  Evans Decl., ¶26.
 To the contrary, Defendants’ owner and
principal spoke glowingly of the work done by Alston’s lawyers. Evans Decl., ¶26.
 Not until Alston stated its intention to
file this action and seek provisional relief did Defendants complain about the
amounts of the bills. Evans Decl., ¶42.
On July 9, 2024,
Defendants made a demand for fee arbitration under the Mandatory Fee
Arbitration Act.  Evans Decl., ¶46.  In connection with that demand, insolvency
counsel for Defendants asserted that Alston could not apply for a right to
attach order or any other provisional relief while the fee arbitration is
pending. Evans Decl., ¶42.  Alston acknowledges
that its claim for unpaid fees and costs is arbitrable under Business &
Professions Code section 6200, but it has the lawful right to seek a right to
attach order and other provisional relief notwithstanding the clients’ request
to arbitrate.  Evans Decl., ¶47. 
 
2. Defendants’
Evidence
a. The Nike Lease
Litigation and Alston’s Engagement Agreement 
The fee dispute at
issue arises from Alston's representation of Defendants as litigation and trial
counsel in connection with a breach of lease and construction dispute which
ultimately resulted in the prosecution of the Nike Lease Litigation. Orig.
Smith Decl., ¶2. 
In the context of
that dispute, on or around September 6, 2018, Alston entered into a written
engagement agreement with Samitaur. Orig. Smith Decl., ¶3. Pursuant to the
terms of that agreement, Alston was to provide "advice and legal
counsel" to Samitaur in connection with the Nike Lease Litigation and
would send Samitaur monthly billing statements for services rendered, which fee
statements would be subject to arbitration in the event of a dispute. Orig.
Smith Decl., Ex. A. Alston did not enter into a written engagement agreements
with either 5860 W. Jefferson or 5860 W. Jefferson I.  Orig. Smith Decl., ¶4. 
In accordance with
the terms of its written agreement with Samitaur, Alston only transmitted fee
statements to Samitaur.  Add'l. Smith Decl.,
¶4.  Contrary to Alston's contention,
Defendants' principal, Laurie Smith, made no representations that 5860 W. Jefferson
I would be responsible for any of Alston's invoices.  Add'l. Smith Decl., ¶5.  None of the funds used to pay Alston came from
5860 W. Jefferson I’s revenues; all originated exclusively with Samitaur.
McIver Decl., ¶¶ 9–13. 
At this time, the aggregate value of the collateral for the Deutsche
Bank Loan -- i.e., the 5860 Jefferson Property and Wrapper Property --
is substantially less than the amount owed to Deutsche Bank by tens of millions
of dollars.  McIver Decl., ¶6.  A restructuring of the DB Loan is one
component of the prospective investment transaction with Hackman Capital.  McIver Decl., ¶6.
At all relevant
times, 5860 W. Jefferson I's revenue has been derived exclusively from the
rents that it collected from Nike in connection with the Nike Lease.  McIver Decl., ¶10.  All of those rents were deposited into a bank
account that were subject to routine "sweeps" by 5860 W. Jefferson
I's lender, Deutsche Bank, to pay outstanding loan debt.  McIver Decl., ¶10.  Therefore, 5860 W. Jefferson I was never in a
position to pay Alston's invoices, and any such payments originated exclusively
with Samitaur.  McIver Decl., ¶¶ 10–13.
5860 W. Jefferson I does disburse some funds to Samitaur
that Samitaur then uses to pay for certain of 5860 W. Jefferson I's expenses,
but those funds have never been used to pay Alston. McIver Decl., ¶11.  Pursuant
to the loan documents with Deutsche Bank, 5860 W. .Jefferson I provides
Deutsche Bank with a budget for certain kinds of operating expenses sought to
be paid to third parties that would protect the bank's collateral, including
utilities, insurance, and maintenance costs, and, if approved by Deutsche Bank,
the bank releases funds in the amount sought in the budget to Jefferson I.  McIver
Decl., ¶11.  The amount of funds
sought and released by Deutsche Bank has typically been between $30,000 to
$80,000 a month. Once those funds are received by 5860 W. Jefferson I, they are
disbursed to Samitaur, and Samitaur then uses the funds to pay the applicable
vendor or supplier associated with the expense in the approved budget.  McIver
Decl., ¶11.  At no point has 5860
W. Jefferson I ever requested, nor has Deutsche Bank ever approved, the payment
of Alston's fees and expenses, and Samitaur has never used those released funds
received from Jefferson I to pay Alston. 
McIver Decl., ¶11.
 
b. Present Fee
Dispute
Over the course of
its engagement as counsel in the Nike Lease Litigation, Alston incurred more
than $5 million in attorney fees, approximately $3 million of which has been
paid to Alston to date.  Orig. Smith Decl.,
¶5.  Shortly before the commencement of
this action, Alston commenced making threats regarding a potential writ of
attachment.  Orig. Smith Decl., ¶5. At
that point, Defendants began a preliminary review of Alston’s monthly invoices
and concluded that: (1) the invoices contained potentially duplicative entries;
(2) there were entries reflecting unusually large amounts of time spent on
apparently simple tasks; and (3) at the time, Alston had billed Samitaur
thousands of dollars in fees for work not typically billed to a client.  Orig. Smith Decl., ¶5. For example, Alston
billed Samitaur thousands of dollars for drafting its motion to withdraw as
counsel in the Nike Lease Litigation, and for preparing its complaint and
application for a writ of attachment in this action.  Orig. Smith Decl., ¶5, Ex. B. 
While Defendants
were still considering how to respond to Alston's outstanding demands for
payment, on July 9, 2024, Alston transmitted an email to Defendants’ counsel advising
that Alston was proceeding with "filing [a collections] lawsuit and
application for writ of attachment." Orig. Zaro Decl., ¶2, Ex. A. In
response, Defendants promptly transmitted to Alston a formal demand for
arbitration pursuant to the Mandatory Fee Arbitration Act (“MFAA”), enclosing a
completed Client Petition for Arbitration, signed by Defendants' principal, Laurie
Smith.  Orig. Zaro Decl., ¶3, Ex. B. The
arbitration demand was emailed to Alston on July 9, 2024, at 1:28 p.m., PDT,
less than an hour after Alston transmitted its litigation and attachment
threat, and a formal service copy followed the next day.  Orig. Zaro Decl., ¶3, Ex. B. 
As of July 29, 2024,
Defendants were engaged in negotiations with a prospective third-party investor,
Hackman Group, regarding a substantial investment. Orig. Smith Decl., ¶6. If
consummated, that investment could result in an infusion of cash in one or more
of the Defendants’ entities.  Orig. Smith
Decl., ¶6.  Nothing in the contemplated
transaction would result in a "transfer of properties" as alleged in Alston's
Complaint; a change in ownership of real property is not a contemplated
component of the transaction.  Orig.
Smith Decl., ¶6.  Samitaur, the only
entity with whom Alston had a written agreement, does not own any real property
that could even be implicated in the contemplated investment.  Orig. Smith Decl., ¶6.
 
D. Analysis
Plaintiff Alston
seeks a right to attach order against Defendant 5860 W. Jefferson I in the
amount of $2,303,234.63.
1. A Claim Based on a Contract and on Which Attachment
May Be Based 
            A writ of attachment may be issued
only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500).  CCP §483.010(a).  
            Alston argues that its claim is
based upon an implied contract by Defendants that they would pay its bills.  Such a contract "is one, the existence
and terms of which are manifested by conduct".  Civil Code §1621.  “The distinction between express and implied
in fact contracts relates only to the manifestation of assent; both types are
based upon the expressed or apparent intention of the parties."  Responsible Citizens v. Superior Court,
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1732-733. A formal retainer and fee agreement is
not necessary to create an attorney-client relationship and such a
relationship, with all its attendant duties, may be created by an implied
contract. Rickley v. Goodfriend, 207 Cal.App.4th 1528, 1538 (2012).  App. at 15.
Alston argues that Defendant
5860 West Jefferson I’s owner and principal, Laurie Smith, asked Alston to represent
all three Defendants in the Nike Lease Litigation.  Alston did so, and for almost five years
Defendants paid Alston for that representation. This conduct demonstrates the
implied contract between Alston and 5860 W. Jefferson I, thereby satisfying the
“contract” requirement of the attachment statute.  App. at 15.
Defendants respond that Alston provides no facts to show an
implied contract with 5860 W. Jefferson I. 
Alston admits that an implied contract is based on conduct, but it
points to nothing by 5860 W. Jefferson I that would support an implied
contract.  Alston cannot rely on a course
of dealing by 5860 W. Jefferson I paying its bills because Samitaur paid all
Alston invoices; 586 W. Jefferson I never paid any portion of the attorney
bills.  McIver Decl., ¶¶ 10–13.  
Nor could 5860 W. Jefferson
I have done so.  Its revenue has been
derived exclusively from the rents that it collected from Nike in connection
with the Nike Lease.  McIver Decl., ¶10.  Those rents were deposited into a bank account
that were subject to routine "sweeps" by 5860 W. Jefferson I's
lender, Deutsche Bank, to pay its outstanding loan debt.  McIver Decl., ¶10.  5860 W. Jefferson I did disburse some
funds to Samitaur that Samitaur then used to pay for certain of 5860 W.
Jefferson I's expenses, but those payments were approved by Deutsche Bank and
no funds have ever been used to pay Alston.  McIver
Decl., ¶11. 
Thus, Alston represented
5860 W. Jefferson I in the Nike Lease
Litigation, but there is nothing from Laurie Smith’s representations or the
parties’ course of dealing that would imply a contract between Alston and 5860
W. Jefferson I.  If arguendo there
had been an implied contract, it would be a contract on which attachment may be
based.
             
            2. An Amount Due That is Fixed
and Readily Ascertainable  
            A claim is “readily ascertainable”
where the damages may be readily ascertained by reference to the contract and
the basis of the calculation appears to be reasonable and definite.  CIT
Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc., (“CIT”) (2004)
115 Cal.App.4th 537, 540-41.  The fact that the damages are unliquidated
is not determinative.  Id.  But the contract must furnish a
standard by which the amount may be ascertained and there must be a basis by
which the damages can be determined by proof.  Id. (citations
omitted). 
Defendants correctly points out that Alston has only a
written agreement with Samitaur.  Even if
Alston had an implied agreement with 5860 W. Jefferson I, Alston has not
established all the material terms of that agreement, including (1) the portion
of its fees and expenses that was the responsibility of each Defendant or (2) whether
obligation to pay Alston’s fees and expenses was joint and several.   
            Alston argues that “[t]here is an
implied agreement to pay the attorney the reasonable value of any services to a
client.  Mittleman v. Seifert,
(1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 51, 67 (citing Trafton v. Youngblood, (1968) 69 Cal.2d
17, 26).” An attorney is entitled to recover the reasonable value of his
services if there is no express employment contract providing for his
compensation.  Trafton v. Youngblood,
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 17, 26.  App. at 15.
            This is true, but the reasonable
value of attorney services is addressed by quantum meruit.  Aside from the fact that the FAC does not
plead a quantum meruit claim, the reasonable value of an attorney’s service is
not a determination that is readily ascertainable from a contract.  In other words, there is no contract for a
quantum meruit claim which furnishes a standard by which the amount owed may be
ascertained.  The matter is a fact issue
for trial.  
Alston’s claim is not
readily ascertainable for purposes of attachment.
 
            3. Probability of Success 
            A claim has “probable validity”
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will recover on that
claim.  CCP §481.190.  In determining this issue, the court must
consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective parties.  Kemp
Bros. Construction, Inc. v. Titan Electric Corp., (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th
1474, 1484.  The court does not determine whether the claim is actually
valid; that determination will be made at trial and is not affected by the
decision on the application for the order.  CCP §484.050(b).
            The same analysis applies to
probability of success as for a fixed and readily ascertainable amount of
attachment.  Assuming that Samitaur
cannot or will not pay the remaining bills, Alston may have a claim of quantum
meruit against 5860 W. Jefferson I on which it can show a probability of
success.  But it has not shown a
probability of success on an implied contract claim.
            
            4.
Attachment Sought for a Proper Purpose¿ 
            Attachment must not be sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which attachment is based.¿
CCP §484.090(a)(3).  Despite Defendants’
argument to the contrary (Opp. at 17), Alston seeks attachment for a proper
purpose.  It is sufficient that Alston
seeks to protect its recovery from 5860 W. Jefferson I’s assets.
 
            E. Conclusion
            The
application for a right to attach order against 5860 W. Jefferson I is denied.  Alston has not shown an implied contract with
5860 W. Jefferson I and has not shown that any amount owed is readily
ascertainable from that contract.  If
Alston has a right of recovery against 5860 W. Jefferson I, it probably lies in
quantum meruit.
 