  Case Number:  23STCV02172    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  74 Taylor v Wheels Labs Operations Inc.
 
Intervenor Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London’s Motion for Leave to Intervene.
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
motion arises from a products liability complaint.
            Plaintiff
Stacey Taylor (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants Wheels Labs
Operations Inc., Wheels Labs Inc., Apollo Syndicate 1969, and AON UK Limited.
            Intervenor
Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London Subscribing to Policy No.
CSDIG2000025 (Intervenor) filed a motion for leave to intervene.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: [¶] (A)
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. [¶] (B) The
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action, and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability
to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc. 387(d)(1).) 
Additionally,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §387(d)(2), the Court has discretion to
permit a nonparty to intervene in litigation pending between others, provided
“if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success
of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”  Therefore, it must be shown that: (1) the
nonparty has a direct and immediate interest¿in the litigation; (2) the
intervention will¿not enlarge¿the issues in the case; and (3) the reasons for
intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing parties.  (Truck Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court
(Transco Syndicate No. 1)¿(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346.)¿¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
            Intervenor
alleges that (1) they have a pecuniary interest in the matter as they insure
defendant Wheel’s Labs, Inc (Insurance code § 11580(b)(2).); (2) that
Intervenor’s claims will not enlarge the case; and (3) that Intervenor’s
interests are not being adequately represented because defendant Wheel’s Labs,
Inc has allowed default to be taken.  
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grant’s Intervenors Motion for Leave to Intervene. 
            Intervenor
to give notice.