 Case Number:  23VECV02649    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02649 Ava M v Maly
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Farzin Maly’s Motion to Disqualify
Plaintiff Ava M.’s Counsel, Michael T. Stoller, is GRANTED.
Defendant Farzin Maly’s Requests
for Judicial Notice filed with the Motion and with the Reply are GRANTED but
not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
The court is inclined to stay the
action until new counsel can substitute into the case.
Introduction 
Defendant Farzin Maly (Maly)
moved to disqualify Plaintiff Ava M.’s (Ava ) Counsel, Michael Stoller
(Stoller).  
Discussion 
Maly argued that there exists a
direct conflict of interest in Stoller’s current representation of Ava because
Ava is suing Co-Defendant Armita Kavoosisharifabad (Kavoosi), Stoller’s current
client in the Dissolution Action (Kvoosisharifabad v. Maly (Super. Ct. Los
Angeles County, April 10, 2015, No. LD060354). 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 128(a)(5); Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.7.)  In general, an attorney-client relationship
must have existed to have standing to bring a disqualification motion.  (Moreci v. Scaffold Solutions, Inc. (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 425, 432-433; Great Lakes Const., Inc. v. Burman (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 1347, 1356; Marriage of Murchison (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 847,
851.)  It is undisputed that Stoller never
represented Maly and thus no attorney-client relationship is presented.  However, even if the motion is brought by one
without an attorney-client relationship, the court has inherent power to
disqualify an attorney in the furtherance of justice.  (Kennedy v. Eldridge (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197,
1204 (Kennedy); DCI Health Services Corp. v. Waite (2002)95 Cal.App.4th 829,
832.)  “It makes no sense for a court to
stand idly by and permit conflicted counsel to participate in a case merely
because neither a client nor former client has brought a motion.”  (Kennedy, supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at p.
1205.)  Whether Maly has standing or not,
the Court can exercise its inherent power to determine the issue presented in
the motion. The Court exercised its inherent power here.  The Court reviewed the issue from Kavoosi’s
stand point or perspective since Kavoosi is the party with the attorney-client
relationship with Mr. Stoller in the family law action.  Mr. Stoller continues to represent Kavoosi in
the family law matter.  
The Court must review the facts
and legal issues presented in Stoller’s representation of Kavoosi in the
Dissolution Action and Stoller’s representation of Ava in the instant action
seeking specific performance by Ava and against Kavoosi.  Maly’s declaration only presents facts as to
his dispute with Kavoosi and Kavoosi’s attempt to set aside the Dissolution
Action’s Judgment.  (Maly Decl. pars.
3-9.)  Maly’s declaration attesting to
Kavoosi’s attempt to set aside the Judgment is irrelevant to the issues presented
herein.  In the instant action, Ava is
alleging that Maly failed to transfer interest to the Clavel Property to her
and Kavoosi has no dispute over transfer of interest to Ava.  (Compl. pars. 12 and 17.)  Despite the allegation that Kavoosi supports
Ava’s claims and is only a nominal defendant, the potential for conflict still
exists because there could be facts or issues that may arise wherein Kavoosi
changes her support for Ava.  It is
unclear what the facts/issues might be at this time but the Court is not
required to speculate as to such future issues. 
Maly is alleged to be obligated to transfer interest of the Clavel
Property to Ava under an agreement entered between Maly and Kavoosi during the
Dissolution Action.  (Compl. pars.
8-9.)  Because the agreement at issue in
the instant action was a direct result of Maly and Kavoosi’s agreement in the
Dissolution Action, there is a sufficient showing of a substantial relationship
between the two actions.  Because Stoller
represents Kavoosi in the Dissolution Action and presumably negotiated the
agreement of the transfer in interest of the Clavel Property, Stoller is seen
to have significant involvement in the Dissolution Action.  The information gleaned by Stoller from the
Dissolution Action is material to the issues presented in the instant
action.  
For these reasons, the Court
finds a conflict of interest as to Stoller’s representation of Ava against
Kavoosi in the instant action and Stoller’s representation of Kavoosi in the
Dissolution Action.  
The Court noted that Maly cited
to Code of Civil Procedure, section 128.7 as legal authority for the instant
motion.  Maly argued that Stoller
proceeded to file/prosecute the instant action despite having knowledge that
the agreement at issue is invalid due to lack of consideration.  The motion based upon Code of Civil
Procedure, section 128.7 is improper because the motion is not filed separately
from the Disqualification Motion and Maly failed to present any facts showing
compliance with the 21 day safe harbor rule. 
To the extent the Court needed to review the motion under Code of Civil
Procedure, section 128.7, the motion is without merit and unpersuasive.
In any event, the Court finds
that good cause is presented to disqualify Stoller.  The motion to disqualify Stoller is
GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.