 Case Number:  24VECV03973    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  T MAGID V PICKETT 24VECV03973
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Joseph Magid’s, as Trustee,
Application for Entry of Stipulated Judgment is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Joseph Magid’s, as Trustee, is
ORDERED to file with the Court and serve upon Defendants Jill Pickett, Ronald
Marlbrough, Scott Faye, and Sean Faye a Proposed Judgment within 10 days.
First appearance fees must be
paid for each defendant.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Joseph Magid, as
trustee of the Grace Veiner Schwartz Living Trust dated August 9, 1995, as
amended (Plaintiff) applied for entry of a stipulated judgment against
Defendants Jill Pickett, Ronald Marlbrough, Scott Faye, and Sean Faye
(collectively, Defendants). 
Alternatively, Plaintiff requests for an order shortening time for a
noticed motion for entry of judgment against Defendants.
Opposition was due November 7,
2024 but none was filed by Defendants.
Discussion 
Plaintiff seeks entry of
stipulated judgment pursuant to the agreement entered between Plaintiff and
each of the Defendants.  (Cimmarusti
Decl. par. 2, Exhs. 1-4.)  Plaintiff requested
Judgment, in summary, for judgment in the amount of unpaid rent balance;
forfeiture of the leases; immediate possession of the property; and attorney’s
fees and costs.  Plaintiff submitted his
declaration to show that since July 31, 2024, Plaintiff has been in contact
with Defendants to demand the defaults be cured.  Despite Plaintiff’s demands, Defendants
failed to cure.  (Magid Decl. par.
9.)  
Plaintiff further provided
Defendants with proper notice and opportunity to be heard on the instant
action, as well as the instant application. 
The Court file reflects that Defendants were served with the Summons and  Complaint, which requested entry of the
stipulated judgment.  Further,  the instant application attaches a proof of
service for the application upon each of the Defendants.  Despite Plaintiff’s notice served upon
Defendants, Defendants failed to appear or respond.  
The Court finds good cause to
enter the Stipulated Judgment.  The
Application for Stipulated Judgment is GRANTED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.