 Case Number:  23TRCV00151    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Wednesday,
March 13, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 10    



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Janis
Wilson v. Jan Overman, et al. 
23TRCV00151
1.     
Janis Wilson’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, from Jan Overman, Individually
2.     
Janis Wilson’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, from Jan Overman, as Co-Trustee    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
      Janis Wilson’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, from Jan Overman, Individually, and Jan Wilson’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, from Jan
Overman, as Co-Trustee are denied, in part, and moot, in part. 
 
      The Court notes that numerous other motions are scheduled for
hearing on this date. However, pursuant to the stipulation filed on February
26, 2024, all other disputes have been resolved except for the dispute
concerning special interrogatory 19 directed to Jan Overman, individually, and special
interrogatory 20 directed to Jan Overman, as co-trustee. Thus, all other
motions are taken off the Court’s calendar. All other disputes concerning
interrogatories previously at issue in these two motions are deemed moot. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 17, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
On May 24, 2022, Plaintiff slipped and fell at the sidewalk in front of 721
Monterey Blvd., Hermosa Beach, California, 90254.  
  
            Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
            Where responses to interrogatories
have been served but the requesting party believes that they are deficient
because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is
without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a further response.  CCP § 2030.300(a).  Notice of the motion must be given within 45
days after service of verified responses in question, or any verified
supplemental responses.  CCP §
2030.300(c).  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with CCP §
2016.040.  CCP § 2030.300(b).
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth a meet and
confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP §§ 2030.300(b) and
2016.040.  (Declarations, Michael J. Kent,
¶¶ 5-7.)
 
            Motion
to Compel
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses from Defendants to Special Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 19
(directed to Jan Overman, individually) and 20 (directed to Jan Overman, as
trustee). The parties engaged in an IDC and a subsequent further meet and
confer process. The parties could not agree on these two specific
interrogatories. 
 
            Each interrogatory states: “IDENTIFY
all PERSONS who leased the SUBJECT PREMISES from 2017 through the date of the
SUBJECT INCIDENT.”
 
            “The state Constitution expressly
grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, §1.) Protection
of informational privacy is the provision’s central concern.”  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552. “[W]hen a discovery request seeks information implicating the
constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery simply upon a showing that
the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance has been met is
an abuse of discretion.”  Williams v.
Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556 (citations omitted).
 
            In Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37, the California Supreme Court
“established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.  The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. . . . . The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” Williams
v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552 (citations omitted). In Hill,
the Court “explained that not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under
article I, section 1 must be overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . . A
‘“compelling interest”’ is still required to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an
interest fundamental to personal autonomy.’” 
Id. at 556.
 
            Disclosure depends upon balancing
the need for discovery against the need for confidentiality.  “Courts must instead place the burden on the
party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness
of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies, as Hill
requires.”  Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.  
 
            Upon
balancing the need for the discovery against the privacy interest involved, the
Court finds that the purported need for discovery does not outweigh the privacy
interests of currently unidentified third parties (previous tenants who apparently
have no relation to this action). Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that any of
the third parties are essential witnesses with respect to the claims asserted
by Plaintiff and/or that any of the unknown third parties have any pertinent
and first-hand information that may be vital in this action. The purported need
for the contact information of these third parties does not outweigh the third
parties’ privacy interests. It is true that contact information of a witness may
be generally discoverable. Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1251-52. However, here, there is no showing that any of these third
parties are actually witnesses or have any information that may be vital to
this case. 
 
            It is a classic term that is
utilized frequently, however, in this scenario, the phrase is apt. This
situation illustrates the classic “fishing expedition” where a party has no
information that the information may be relevant but casts a line in very deep
waters to attempt to obtain information. Without a more particularized request,
the Court will not indulge in such fishing expeditions. It is true that mere
contact information does not necessarily implicate a significant privacy
interest. However, a blanket request for all tenant contact information is not
sufficient to overcome the privacy interests. Perhaps, a more specific request
that would be more tailored to the issues at dispute could have overcome such privacy
interests. 
 
               Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, from Jan Overman,
Individually, and Jan Wilson’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, from Jan Overman, as Co-Trustee are thus denied, in
part, as to Special Interrogatories 19 and 20, and are moot, in part as to the
rest of the interrogatories. 
 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.
 
             
 
 