  Case Number:  23TRCP00347    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                                    Wednesday, March 13, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                                               Calendar No. 1  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Mortgage Lender Services, Inc. v.
3816 W. 180th Street Torrance CA 90504 23TRCP00347
1.     
Nicholas Alipaz and Tomoko Alipaz’s
(“Alipaz”) Claim for Surplus Funds   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
      Nicholas
Alipaz and Tomoko Alipaz’s Claim for Surplus Funds is granted.
 
      Background 
 
      Petitioner
filed its petition on August 29, 2023. Petitioner alleges the following facts.
Petitioner Mortgage Lender Services, Inc. is the Trustee under a Deed of Trust
executed by Nicholas Andrew Alipaz and Tomoko Orui Alipaz, husband and wife, as
joint tenants as Trustor. The Deed of Trust was secured by real property which
was sold by non-judicial foreclosure sale on June 9, 2022. The sale resulted in
the receipt of funds that exceeded the amount due and owing under the Deed of
Trust. Mortgage Lender Services, Inc. was unable to determine how the surplus
funds should be distributed and seeks to deposit the funds with the clerk
pursuant to Civil Code section 2924j, subdivision (c). On December 14, 2023, Mortgage
Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion to Deposit Surplus Funds and to Discharge
Petitioner was granted.
 
      Claim to Surplus
Funds
 
      When
proceeds remain after a trustee’s sale, the trustee is required to send written
notice to those persons, with recorded interests in the property, who would
have been entitled to receive a copy of the notice of default pursuant to Civ.
Code § 2924b(b)(c).  Civ. Code §
2924j(a). The notice must inform each such person that there has been a
trustee’s sale, that he or she may have a claim to all or a portion of the
remaining proceeds, and that he or she may contact the trustee.  Civ. Code § 2924j(a).  The trustee must exercise due diligence in
determining the priority of written claims received from those persons to whom
the notice was sent.  If there is no
dispute as to the priority of written claims to the surplus proceeds, the
trustee shall pay the proceeds within 30 days after conclusion of the above
notice period.  But if the trustee has
failed to determine the priority of the claims within 90 days following the 30
day notice period, within 10 days thereafter, the trustee must either deposit
the funds with the court clerk or file an interpleader action.  Civ. Code § 2924j(b).  If the trustee decides to deposit the funds
with the court clerk, the trustee must send written notice to all interested
persons, as defined, informing them of the intent to deposit the funds and that
their claims must be filed within 30
days from the date of the notice. 
The trustee also files a declaration of the unresolved claims.  Civ. Code § 2924j(c)-(d).  Here, petitioner met all the statutory
requirements to obtain an order to deposit the surplus funds. Thus, the funds
should be ordered deposited with the Court as of this date.  
 
      Civil
Code section 2924j, subdivision (d), states, in relevant part: “Within 90 days
after deposit with the clerk, the court shall consider all claims filed at
least 15 days before the date on which the hearing is scheduled by the court,
the clerk shall serve written notice of the hearing by first-class mail on all
claimants identified in the trustee's declaration at the addresses specified
therein. Where the amount of the deposit is twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000) or less, a proceeding pursuant to this section is a limited civil
case. The court shall distribute the deposited funds to any and all claimants
entitled thereto.” 
 
      In
Lord v. Superior Court (1946) 27
Cal.2d 855, the Supreme Court held that a court can maintain ancillary
jurisdiction with respect to funds on deposit with the court.  “After an action has been dismissed under
Code of Civil Procedure, section 583, the court is without jurisdiction to hear
or determine any motion unrelated to the dismissal of the action.  However, this general rule is subject to
exceptions and a court is not divested of jurisdiction for all purposes after
the dismissal of an action.  Thereafter
the court has the power to determine the disposition of funds held in custodia
legis after notice to all parties interested.” 
Id. at 857-58 (internal
citations omitted).  
 
      On
December 14, 2023, Petitioner’s petition to deposit surplus funds was heard and
granted. Petitioner met all the statutory requirements to obtain an order to
deposit the surplus funds.  The clerk was
ordered to receive the sum of $295,377.34 payable to the Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles, and to deposit said amount into the court’s
trust account less any applicable fee. 
Petitioner was discharged of any further responsibility for disbursement
of sale proceeds.
 
      On
December 13, 2023, claimants Alipaz filed a claim for surplus funds on the
grounds that they were title owners of the property. Claimants provided
evidence that they were the last listed owners of the property in question just
prior to the trustee’s sale. Thus, as the trustor on the deed of trust
encumbering the property, claimants are entitled to surplus funds following the
trustee’s sale minus any lien priorities that exist. The Court notes that no
other potential claimants filed a claim to surplus funds.
 
      Therefore,
Nicholas Alipaz and Tomoko Alipaz’s Claim to Surplus Funds is granted. Claimants
are entitled to the remaining funds on deposit.
 
      Claimants
are ordered to submit a proposed ruling and to give notice of this ruling.
 