  Case Number:  22STCV05902    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  61 XI HUA YANG vs ZHIFENG RENTENTATIVE Defendant Zhifeng Ren’s Motion to Vacate Default and Default Judgment is DENIED.Plaintiff to give notice.DISCUSSION“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (d).) Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5 provides another basis to set aside default when a party lacks actual notice of the action:“When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5, subd. (a).)“Where a party moves under section 473, subdivision (d) to set aside “a judgment that, though valid on its face, is void for lack of proper service, the courts have adopted by analogy the statutory period for relief from a default judgment” provided by section 473.5, that is, the two-year outer limit.” (Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 180.)Defendant Zhifeng Ren (Defendant) moves to vacate the default and default judgment entered against him on June 27 and August 23, 2022, respectively. Defendant argues that the purported proof of personal service filed in this case on June 21, 2022, indicating that Defendant was personally served on March 23, 2022, at an address on Doreen Avenue in South El Monte, is false, because Defendant was in another location at the time. (Motion at pp. 4–5.)Defendant’s motion is defective in several respects. First, it is supported by no competent evidence. Defendant does not submit his own declaration to attest to his lack of service, or of his knowledge of the litigation. Instead, he submits the declaration of his counsel, Peter Deng, who relays only hearsay concerning Defendant’s purported absence from the site of service on the date in question, referencing “location data” that is neither presented nor authenticated. (Deng Decl. at p. 2.) Thus Defendant’s own showing is insufficient to grant the relief requested.Even the unsupported story that Defendant presents is persuasively rebutted by declarations of the process servers that Plaintiff submits in opposition to this motion. Ching Pan testifies that he served Defendant by calling his business number and pretending to be an interested customer, accomplishing service at the address and on the date listed in the proof of service to a man who introduced himself as Defendant. (Ping Decl. ¶¶ 2–4.) This account is corroborated by Jennifer Vasquez, who accompanied Ping on the service. (Vasquez Decl. ¶¶ 2–4.) Based on the only evidence properly before the court, service was accomplished, and Defendant was given timely notice.The motion is also untimely. A motion to set aside a judgment for lack of service must be “filed within a reasonable time” not exceeding “two years after entry of the default judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5, subd. (a).) While filed just within the two-year deadline, Defendant here admits that he was made aware of the judgment through a text from Plaintiff in August 2023. (Motion at p. 4.) Defendant does not explain why he then awaited a year to investigate and seek relief. This delay was not “reasonable” under the statute.The motion also violates court rules for the length of briefing in support of motions. Memoranda in support of ordinary motions should not exceed 15 pages. (Cal. Rules of Court (CRC) 3.113, subd. (d).) Despite the simplicity of the issue presented, Defendant has filed an initial motion (including lengthy recitals of fact and argument) of 20 pages in length, and at the same time filed an additional memorandum 38 pages long, consisting largely of repetitive and irrelevant argument. At any length, the argument is unpersuasive for the reasons described above.The motion is DENIED.