 Case Number:  22SMCV01883    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to obtain financial information for
purposes of punitive damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3295.  That statute and the cases decided pursuant
to it require that a party may not undertake financial discovery for purposes
of punitive damages unless there is a “strong likelihood” of success on the
punitive damages issue.  Defendant
opposes.  The court notes that the
defendant who is the discovery target is not Lyft, it is the alleged
assailant.    
 
The underlying facts are that plaintiffs called for an Uber
one night.  Defendant, a Lyft driver
named Zeray, came to the pick up spot but he was not there for plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs got in the car and defendant then
allegedly drove them to the wrong location and Zeray assaulted them
violently.  Defendant denies the
accusation.
 
Plainly the allegations, if proven, would be sufficient to
warrant punitive damages.  The question,
though, is whether plaintiffs have established a “strong likelihood” of
success.  Unfortunately the showing is
weaker than it could be.
 
The bulk of the evidence plaintiffs recite comes not from
plaintiffs, but from their attorney, who in turn recites the allegations in the
complaint.  There is an objection to that
testimony, and it is well taken.  While
plaintiffs’ counsel certainly has knowledge as to the contents of the
complaint, counsel has no knowledge at all as to the underlying events or
whether the allegations are true. 
Allegations in a complaint, of course, are evidence of nothing.  So while the court can consider the complaint
for context—what is being claimed—the complaint does not move the needle at all
as to the required showing.  The second
type of evidence is the police report. 
Putting to one side authenticity issues, the problem is that the police
reports are not good evidence either, at least not in their entirety.  The court will assume that the reports are
public records within the public records hearsay exception.  But that does not mean that the hearsay
statements within them are admissible; they are not.  Thus, the witness statements are inadmissible
hearsay, and that does not move the needle either.  The actual observations in the reports are
evidence, and that establishes some injury, but the observation part of the
report says nothing as to how the injury occurred.  That leaves the Porras deposition.  That deposition is evidence, and the court
can consider it.  The problem there is
that Porras, who admits being quite drunk during the events at issue and mostly
having a hazy memory at best, is a bit weak. 
She recalls Zeray opening the door and trying to remove her from the
car, but was unsure if the driver used significant physical pressure in doing
so.  The most telling evidence is that
she saw Zeray hitting Guerrero with a closed fist on the head.  That is evidence, and it does move the
needle.
 
In opposition, Zeray points to a recorded statement he made
to plaintiff’s counsel.  Were plaintiff
relying on that, it would be evidence. 
But it is not evidence here. 
Zeray cannot rely on a prior unsworn statement in opposition to the
motion.  It does, though, provide some
insight as to what he is claiming, although (like plaintiffs’ complaint) it is
proof of nothing.  Zeray asserts that he
went to the location to pick up a different passenger.  But when he got there, plaintiffs got in his
car.  He claims that he told them to
leave but they would not leave.  They
supposedly offered to pay him money to take them home, but he refused.  When they would not get out of the car (and when
his actual passengers arrived), he says he did try to force them out of the
car.  Eventually, though, they wound up
in the car and he wound up outside of it and they drove off.  At least the driving off part appears to be
corroborated by Porras’s deposition. 
However, because Zeray still had the key, the engine died a few blocks
away.  He asserts that they then
assaulted him, not the other way around. 
However, none of the things just recited are supported by evidence
except the part that Porras supports in her deposition.
 
The biggest problem with this case is that the court has no
direct testimony from either Guerrero or Zeray. 
Guerrero decided not to put in a declaration.  Porras’s deposition was attached, but (as is
relatively clear from the opposition’s excerpts), she is not the world’s most
reliable witness because she was apparently very drunk at the time and her
recollection is poor, as she herself admits. 
For example, it appears that when plaintiffs drove off in Zeray’s car,
they were unaware that it was his car.  She
was also somewhat impeached during the deposition, at least based on the
excerpts in opposition.  At the same
time, Zeray elected not to put in a declaration.  The court has his unsworn statement, but that
is not evidence.  A declaration would
have been evidence, but for reasons unknown, he did not declare anything.
 
At present, the court cannot say that anyone has shown a
“strong likelihood” of anything.  Because
it is plaintiffs’ burden, the motion must be DENIED.  But it is denied without prejudice to being
renewed on a more significant showing—perhaps one with declarations rather than
a few deposition excerpts.  The court
also notes that section 3295 does not apply to trial subpoenae.  Plaintiffs will be able to issue a subpoena
to get this information for trial purposes. 
The court’s practice is to require objections to be filed relatively
early so that when the trial begins the documents are there.  The documents will be turned over on the
first day of trial—the court will not wait until the jury’s phase I verdict.  If discovery is needed, the court will
entertain motions to allow additional discovery during the trial if
necessary.  The point is that if the jury
returns a verdict finding punitive damages appropriate, phase II will begin
immediately and plaintiffs will have the evidence they need to make their
required showing.  That may be a viable
option here.
 
 