

Hearing Date:             June 6,
2024
Case Name:                Holy
Roly Holding Inc. v. Holy Roly Melrose LLC  
Case No.:                    23STCV22692
[r/t 23STCV22750]
Motion:                       Demurrer

Moving Party:             Defendants Holy Roly Melrose LLC, and Yuekuo Ding

Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs
Holy Roly Holding Inc., LKZ Enterprises, Inc., and Seung Jun Kim aka Louis Kim

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is overruled. 


             
            This case arises from an alleged
breach of a franchise agreement. Plaintiff Holy Roly Holding Inc. (Holy Roly
Holding), LKZ Enterprises, Inc. (LKZ), and Seung Jun Kim (Kim) operate an ice
cream chain, Holy Roly. The pleadings allege that Defendants Leo Zhou (Zhou)
and Tag USA Consulting, Inc. (Tag) approached Plaintiffs with a plan to operate
a franchise of Holy Roly. Relying on representations of Zhou and Tag’s experience
in franchising businesses, Plaintiffs paid Zhou and Tag $7,000 to franchise the
business, including to obtain an investor – in this case, Defendant Tue Kuo
Ding (Ding). Thereafter, Plaintiffs entered into a written franchise agreement
for Defendant Ding to operate a Holy Roly ice cream store in Los Angeles
County, Defendant Holy Roly Melrose, LLC. Pursuant to the terms of the Franchise
Agreement, Defendants Ding and Holy Roly Melrose, LLC were to pay 4% annual
gross sales to Plaintiff Holy Roly Holding as a franchise fee, 2% of gross
sales for advertising fees, and the sum of $250,000 in exchange for 90%
ownership of Holy Roly Melrose. 
 
            Defendant Ding hired Plaintiff Kim to
assist in operating and managing Holy Roly Melrose, LLC for him until he obtained
his E-2 visa and came to the United States. Ding also promised to pay Kim a
management fee in the form of a monthly salary in the amount of $1,500 per
month or 4% of gross sales, whichever was more. The Complaint alleges that Ding
only intended to use Plaintiffs to obtain his E-2 visa to immigrate to the
United States. That is, once Defendant Ding was able to obtain a visa, he
stopped paying the franchise fees and management fees to Plaintiffs and refused
to pay Plaintiff Kim for the work he performed.
 
            Based on certain representations,
Defendant Ding also induced Plaintiffs to make loans to Holy Roly Melrose in
the amount of $350,000.
 
The operative
First Amended Complaint contains causes of action for: (1.) breach of contract
(franchise agreement); (2.) common counts: account stated; (3.) common counts:
open book account; (4.) breach of oral agreement; (5.) restitution; (6.)
intentional misrepresentation; (7.) negligent misrepresentation; (8.) failure
to pay minimum wage; (9.) failure to pay overtime wage; (10.) failure to
provide rest period; (11.) failure to provide meal period; (12.) failure to
provide wage statements; (13.) unfair business practices; (14.)
indemnification; (15.) breach of oral agreement; (16.) unfair business
practices; and (17.) negligence. 
 
            On May 3, 2024, Defendants Holy Roly Melrose and Ding (Defendants or Demurring
Defendants) demurred
to all seventeen causes of action in the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs
opposed the demurrer. 
 
            The demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
is overruled.
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
            
Standing
Based on the California Franchise Investment Law:
 
            Defendants demur to the entire FAC
on the grounds that Plaintiffs lack standing under the California
Franchise Investment Law (CFIL)
to bring any claims because they failed to plead the validity of the Franchise
Agreement.
 
            As a preliminary matter, Defendants
demur to the first through seventeenth causes of actions on the grounds of
non-compliance with CFIL. However, Defendants provide no legal authority that a
failure to comply with CFIL bars any of the specific claims pled, particularly
the tort claims.
            Specifically, Defendants cite Dameshghi v. Texaco
Refining & Marketing, Inc. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1262, which they argue
stands for the proposition that individual plaintiff who was not a franchisor
was not “entitled to access to the courts” for purported CFIL violations.
Defendants also cite BP Products North America Inc. v. Grand Petroleum, Inc.
(N.D. Cal., Oct. 14, 2021, No. 4:20-CV-0901-YGR) 2021 WL 4804275 for the
proposition that individuals who were not parties to the franchise agreements
cannot bring CFIL challenges. (Id. at *5, fn. 6.)
Neither
case is persuasive regarding the allegations here. Contrary to the demurrer,
the causes of action do not “rest on the assertion that Plaintiff is a lawful
franchisor under the CFIL.” The FAC does not contain any cause of action for statutory
CFIL violations. Moreover, the standing arguments cited by Defendants in BP
Products North America Inc. v. Grand Petroleum, Inc. arose under the federal
Petroleum Marketing Practices Act, 15 U.S.C.§ 2801 et seq. – not the
CFIL. This entire legal argument lacks merit. 
            Further, Defendants’ argument that the Franchise Agreement
is invalid because it fails to comply with certain Franchise Rules is also unpersuasive.
They argue that Plaintiffs have failed to plead that they have satisfied the
requirements for mandatory disclosure and registration under the CFIL. But
Defendants provide no legal authority for requiring such a pleading for the
causes of action pled. Thus, the demurrer on this ground is also not
well-taken. 
            Moreover, to the extent that Defendants assert that Plaintiffs
have not complied with the Franchise Rules, such an assertion is outside the allegations
in the pleading. (Dem., 3:18-4:5.) Such an argument is inappropriate on
demurrer. 
            Instead, here, the FAC alleges that a franchise agreement
existed between Plaintiffs on the one hand, and with Holy Roly Melrose and Ding
– as the alter ego of Holy Roly Melrose. (FAC ¶¶ 15, 55, Ex. 1 [Franchise
Agreement].) The pleadings further allege specific breaches of this agreement.
(FAC ¶¶ 55-58.) The demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of
franchise agreement is overruled. 
            Defendants argue that the second through fifth causes of
action by Plaintiff LKZ against Defendant Ding and HR Melrose fails because
Plaintiff LKZ is not a party to the Franchise Agreements at issue. The
opposition does not address this argument. However, the second through fifth
causes of action are not based on the franchise agreement or its terms. (FAC ¶¶
59-76.) Thus, this argument is not well taken.
            The demurrer based on this standing argument is
overruled. 
Sixth and
Seventh Causes of Action for Misrepresentation: 
 
            Defendants demur to these causes of
action on the grounds that “no franchise contract was formed because of
noncompliance with the CFIL. Without a determination that a lawful franchise
existed, Plaintiffs’ complaint and all causes of action, including the
employment claims (Kim hired himself) and loans, fail to state a cause of
action.” (Dem., 5:12-16.)
 
            Defendants cites no legal authority
for this argument. The Court rejects this wholly unsupported argument. 
 
Defendants
also argue that these misrepresentation claims fail because “(i) they are not
based on statements of fact; (ii) Plaintiffs’ claims contradict the alleged
Franchise Agreement, and/or (iii) Plaintiffs fail to show Defendants willfully
made untrue statements of material facts and (iv) the First Amended Complaint
fails to allege that the alleged misrepresentations or omissions concern
material facts and/or fails to allege willful misconduct or omission by
Defendants.” (Dem. 4:14-20.) These argument are entirely conclusory with no
analysis of the allegations pled. The demurrer as to these undeveloped
arguments is overruled. 
 
Eighth
through Twelfth Causes of Action:
 
Defendants
demur to Plaintiff Kim’s eighth through twentieth causes of actions under the
Labor Code on the grounds that Plaintiff Kim has failed to exhaust his
administrative remedies. 
 
            Specifically, Defendants contend
that Plaintiffs were required to comply with the statutory prerequisite for
commencing a civil action under PAGA and the Labor Code. However, Plaintiffs have
not brought any claims under PAGA. Thus, Plaintiffs need not comply with any
statutory prerequisites before bringing their individual Labor Code claims. 
 
            Defendants also argue that Plaintiff
Kim is the owner of the Franchisor and cannot
assert wage and hour claims. However, the FAC also alleges Plaintiff Kim acted
as an employee. Thus, the wage and hour claims do not arise from his position
as the franchisor.
 
            The demurrer to these causes of
action is overruled. 
 
Fourteenth
through Seventeen Causes of Action:
 
            Defendants argue that the fifteenth
through seventeenth causes of action by Plaintiffs against Zhou and Tag fail
because Plaintiffs lack standing to sue under the Franchise Agreement.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs note that the
fourteenth through seventeen causes of action are not brought against the Demurring
Defendants; as such, Demurring Defendants have no standing to demur to these
causes of action. 
 
            The demurrer to these causes of
action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
is overruled.  The Court finds that Defendants’
arguments are so lacking in legal support that they appear frivolous and
interposed for an improper purpose.  If a
separate motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 had been properly
made, the Court would have considered imposing monetary sanctions against
Defendants and counsel. 
 
            Defendants
shall file and serve their Answer to the First Amended Complaint on or before June
27, 2024.